quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information appearing under the caption "management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition-quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" in the company's 2001 annual report to stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 10 cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements 17 risk factors introduction investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. these are the most significant risk factors; however, they are not the only risk factors that you should consider in making an investment decision. this annual report on form 10-k also contains and may incorporate by reference from our proxy statement for our 2011 annual meeting of stockholders, or from exhibits, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. see the cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements below. our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including the risks that we face, which are described below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k or in documents incorporated by reference in this report. our business, consolidated financial position or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. the trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks, and investors in our securities may lose all or part of their investment. weakened global economic conditions have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. weakened global economic conditions have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business in the form of lower net sales due to weakened demand, unfavorable changes in product price/mix, or lower profit margins. during periods of economic recession, there can be a heightened competition for sales and increased pressure to reduce selling prices. if we lose significant sales volume or reduce selling prices significantly, then there could be a negative impact on our consolidated revenue, profitability and cash flows. also, reduced availability of credit may adversely affect the ability of some of our customers and suppliers to obtain funds for operations and capital expenditures. this could negatively impact our ability to obtain necessary supplies as well as our sales of materials and equipment to affected customers. this also could result in reduced or delayed collections of outstanding accounts receivable. the global nature of our operations in the united states and in 51 foreign countries exposes us to numerous risks that could materially adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. we operate in the united states and in 51 other countries, and our products are distributed in those countries as well as in other parts of the world. a large portion of our manufacturing operations are located outside of the united states. operations outside of the united states, particularly operations in developing regions, are subject to various risks that may not be present or as significant for our u.s. operations. economic uncertainty in some of the geographic regions in which we operate, including developing regions, could result in the disruption of commerce and negatively impact cash flows from our operations in those areas. risks inherent in our international operations include social plans that prohibit or increase the cost of certain restructuring actions; exchange controls; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations including devaluations; the potential for changes in local economic conditions including local inflationary pressures; restrictive governmental actions such as those on transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection matters, including antidumping duties, tariffs, embargoes and prohibitions or restrictions on acquisitions or joint ventures; changes in laws and regulations, 10 table of contents including the laws and policies of the united states affecting trade and foreign investment; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; variations in protection of intellectual property and other legal rights; more expansive legal rights of foreign unions or works councils; the potential for nationalization of enterprises or facilities; and unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against united states or other interests. in addition, there are potential tax inefficiencies in repatriating funds from our non-u.s. subsidiaries. these and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. if the settlement of the asbestos-related claims that we have agreed to (the settlement agreement ) is not implemented, we will not be released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against us arising from a 1998 transaction with w. r. grace co. we are also a defendant in a number of asbestos-related actions in canada arising from w. r. grace co. activities in canada prior to the 1998 transaction. on november 27, 2002, we reached an agreement in principle with the official committee of asbestos personal injury claimants (the acc ) and the official committee of asbestos property damage claimants appointed to represent asbestos claimants in the w. r. grace co. ( grace ) bankruptcy case to resolve all current and future asbestos-related claims made against us and our affiliates. the settlement agreement will also resolve the fraudulent transfer claims and successor liability claims, as well as indemnification claims by fresenius medical care holdings, inc. and affiliated companies in connection with the cryovac transaction. the cryovac transaction was a multi-step transaction, completed on march 31, 1998, which brought the cryovac packaging business and the former sealed air corporation business under the common ownership of the company. the parties to the agreement in principle signed the definitive settlement agreement as of november 10, 2003 consistent with the terms of the agreement in principle. on june 27, 2005, the u.s. bankruptcy court for the district of delaware, where the grace bankruptcy case is pending, signed an order approving the definitive settlement agreement. although grace is not a party to the settlement agreement, under the terms of the order, grace is directed to comply with the settlement agreement subject to limited exceptions. on september 19, 2008, grace, the acc, the asbestos pi future claimants representative (the fcr ), and the official committee of equity security holders (the equity committee ) filed, as co-proponents, a plan of reorganization (as filed and amended from time to time, the pi settlement plan ) and several exhibits and associated documents, including a disclosure statement (as filed and amended from time to time, the pi settlement disclosure statement ), with the bankruptcy court. as filed, the pi settlement plan would provide for the establishment of two asbestos trusts under section 524(g) of the united states bankruptcy code to which present and future asbestos-related claims would be channeled. the pi settlement plan also contemplates that the terms of our definitive settlement agreement will be incorporated into the pi settlement plan and that we will pay the amount contemplated by that agreement. on january 31, 2011, the bankruptcy court entered a memorandum opinion (the memorandum opinion ) overruling certain objections to the pi settlement plan. on the same date, the bankruptcy court entered an order regarding confirmation of the pi settlement plan (the confirmation order ). as entered on january 31, 2011, the confirmation order contained recommended findings of fact and conclusions of law, and recommended that the u.s. district court for the district of delaware (the district court ) approve the confirmation order, and that the district court confirm the pi settlement plan and issue a channeling injunction under section 524(g) of the bankruptcy code. thereafter, on february 15, 2011, the bankruptcy court issued an order clarifying its memorandum opinion and confirmation order (the clarifying order ). among other things, the clarifying order provided that any references in the memorandum opinion and confirmation order to a recommendation that the district court confirm the pi settlement plan were thereby amended to make clear that the pi settlement plan was confirmed and that the bankruptcy court was requesting that the district court issue and affirm the confirmation order including the injunction under section 524(g) of the bankruptcy code. if it becomes effective, the pi settlement plan may implement the terms of the settlement agreement, but there can be no assurance that this will be the case notwithstanding the bankruptcy court confirmation of the pi settlement plan. the terms of the pi settlement plan remain subject to amendment. moreover, the pi settlement plan is subject to the satisfaction of a number of conditions which are more fully set forth in the pi settlement plan 11 table of contents and include, without limitation, the availability of exit financing and the approval of the pi settlement plan by the district court. additionally, various parties have filed notices of appeal or have otherwise challenged the memorandum opinion and confirmation order, and the pi settlement plan may be subject to further appeal or challenge by additional parties. parties filed a number of objections to the pi settlement plan, and some of these objections concerned injunctions, releases and provisions as applied to us and/or that are contemplated by the settlement agreement. such parties (or others) may appeal or otherwise challenge the bankruptcy court memorandum opinion and confirmation order, or otherwise continue to oppose the pi settlement plan. while the bankruptcy court has confirmed the pi settlement plan, additional proceedings may be held before the district court or other courts to consider matters related to the pi settlement plan. we do not know whether or when a final plan of reorganization will become effective. assuming that a final plan of reorganization (whether the pi settlement plan or another plan of reorganization) is confirmed by the bankruptcy court, approved by the district court, and does become effective, we do not know whether the final plan of reorganization will be consistent with the terms of the settlement agreement and if the other conditions to our obligation to pay the settlement agreement amount will be met. if these conditions are not satisfied or not waived by us, we will not be obligated to pay the amount contemplated by the settlement agreement. however, if we do not pay the settlement agreement amount, we and our affiliates will not be released from the various claims against us. if the settlement agreement does not become effective, either because grace fails to emerge from bankruptcy or because grace does not emerge from bankruptcy with a plan of reorganization that is consistent with the terms of the settlement agreement, then we and our affiliates will not be released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against us and our affiliates noted above, and all of these claims would remain pending and would have to be resolved through other means, such as through agreement on alternative settlement terms or trials. in that case, we could face liabilities that are significantly different from our obligations under the settlement agreement. we cannot estimate at this time what those differences or their magnitude may be. in the event these liabilities are materially larger than the current existing obligations, they could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. since november 2004, the company and specified subsidiaries have been named as defendants in a number of cases, including a number of putative class actions, brought in canada as a result of grace alleged marketing, manufacturing or distributing of asbestos or asbestos containing products in canada prior to the cryovac transaction in 1998. grace has agreed to defend and indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases. the canadian cases are currently stayed. a global settlement of these canadian claims to be funded by grace has been approved by the canadian court, and the pi settlement plan provides for payment of these claims. we do not have any positive obligations under the canadian settlement, but we are a beneficiary of the release of claims. the release in favor of the grace parties (including us) will become operative upon the effective date of a plan of reorganization in grace united states chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding. as filed, the pi settlement plan contemplates that the claims released under the canadian settlement will be subject to injunctions under section 524(g) of the bankruptcy code. by its terms, the canadian settlement will, unless amended, become null and void if a confirmation order in the grace u.s. bankruptcy proceeding is not granted prior to july 31, 2011. as indicated above, the bankruptcy court entered the confirmation order on january 31, 2011 and the clarifying order on february 15, 2011; however, we can give no assurance that the pi settlement plan (or any other plan of reorganization) will be approved by the district court, or will become effective. assuming that a final plan of reorganization (whether the pi settlement plan or another plan of reorganization) is confirmed by the bankruptcy court, approved by the district court, and does become effective, if the final plan of reorganization does not incorporate the terms of the canadian settlement or if the canadian courts refuse to enforce the final plan of reorganization in the canadian courts, and if in addition grace is unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases, then we could be required to pay substantial damages, which we cannot estimate at this time and which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. for further information concerning these matters, see note 16, commitments and contingencies, of notes to consolidated financial statements under the caption cryovac transaction commitments and contingencies. 12 table of contents a downgrade of our credit ratings could have a negative impact on our costs and ability to access credit markets. our cost of capital and ability to obtain external financing may be affected by our debt ratings, which the credit rating agencies review periodically. the company and our long-term senior unsecured debt are currently rated bb+ (positive outlook) by standard poor financial services llc. on november 18, 2010, standard poor revised our ratings outlook to positive from stable. this rating is considered non-investment grade. the company and our long-term senior unsecured debt are currently rated baa3 by moody investor service, inc. this rating is considered investment grade. on may 4, 2010, moody revised our ratings outlook to stable from negative. if our credit ratings are downgraded, there could be a negative impact on our ability to access capital markets and borrowing costs could increase. a credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. raw material pricing, availability and allocation by suppliers as well as energy-related costs may negatively impact our results of operations, including our profit margins. we use petrochemical-based raw materials to manufacture many of our products. increases in market demand or fluctuations in the global trade for petrochemical-based raw materials and energy could increase our costs. we also have some sole-source suppliers, and the lack of availability of supplies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers in the future. these factors could lead to increased prices for our raw materials, curtailment of supplies and allocation of raw materials by our suppliers, which could reduce revenues and profit margins and harm relations with our customers and which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. the effects of animal and food-related health issues such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy, also known as mad cow disease, foot-and-mouth disease and avian influenza or bird-flu, as well as other health issues affecting the food industry, may lead to decreased revenues. we manufacture and sell food packaging products, among other products. various health issues affecting the food industry have in the past and may in the future have a negative effect on the sales of food packaging products. in recent years, occasional cases of mad cow disease have been confirmed and incidents of bird flu have surfaced in various countries. outbreaks of animal diseases may lead governments to restrict exports and imports of potentially affected animals and food products, leading to decreased demand for our products and possibly also to the culling or slaughter of significant numbers of the animal population otherwise intended for food supply. also, consumers may change their eating habits as a result of perceived problems with certain types of food. these factors may lead to reduced sales of food businesses products, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. concerns about greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions and climate change and the resulting governmental and market responses to these issues could increase costs that we incur and could otherwise affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives have been enacted and proposed in response to concerns about ghg emissions and climate change. we are a manufacturing entity that utilizes petrochemical-based raw materials to produce many of our products, including plastic packaging materials. increased environmental legislation or regulation could result in higher costs for us in the form of higher raw materials and freight and energy costs. we could also incur additional compliance costs for monitoring and reporting emissions and for maintaining permits. it is also possible that certain materials might cease to be permitted to be used in our processes. 13 table of contents disruption and volatility of the financial and credit markets could affect our external liquidity sources. our principal sources of liquidity are accumulated cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flow from operations and amounts available under our existing lines of credit, including our global credit facility, our european credit facility, and our accounts receivable securitization program (as described in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, which is included in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k). our accounts receivable securitization program includes a bank financing commitment that must be renewed annually prior to the expiration date. the bank commitment is scheduled to expire on december 2, 2011. while the bank is not obligated to renew the bank financing commitment, we have negotiated annual renewals since the commencement of the program in 2001. additionally, conditions in financial markets could affect financial institutions with which we have relationships and could result in adverse effects on our ability to utilize fully our committed borrowing facilities. for example, a lender under our global credit facility or the european credit facility may be unwilling or unable to fund a borrowing request, and we may not be able to replace such lender. covenant restrictions under our credit arrangements may pose a risk. we have a number of credit facilities, including our global credit facility, our european credit facility, and our accounts receivable securitization program, and debt securities we have issued, to manage liquidity and fund operations (as described in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, which is included in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k). the agreements relating to these facilities and securities generally contain certain restrictive covenants, including the incurrence of additional indebtedness, restriction of liens and sale and leaseback transactions, financial covenants relating to interest coverage, debt leverage and minimum liquidity, and restrictions on consolidation and merger transactions, as well as, in some cases, restrictions on amendments to the settlement agreement. in addition, amounts available under our accounts receivable securitization program can be impacted by a number of factors, including but not limited to our credit ratings, accounts receivable balances, the creditworthiness of our customers and our receivables collection experience. as a result of some of these factors, the amount available to us under the program has decreased. although we do not believe that any of these covenants or other restrictive provisions presently materially restricts our liquidity position, a breach of one or more of the covenants or an event that triggers other restrictive provisions could result in material adverse consequences that could negatively impact our business, consolidated results of operations and financial position. this in turn could result in a further decline in amounts available under the accounts receivable securitization program or termination of the program. such adverse consequences may include the acceleration of amounts outstanding under certain of the facilities, triggering the obligation to redeem certain debt securities, termination of existing unused commitments by our lenders or the bank commitment related to our accounts receivable securitization program, refusal by lenders to extend further credit under one or more of the facilities or to enter into new facilities, or the lowering or modification of our credit ratings. strengthening of the u.s. dollar and other foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could materially impact our consolidated financial position and results of operations. during 2010, approximately 54% of our sales originated outside the united states. we translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currency into u.s. dollars for our consolidated financial statements. during periods of a strengthening u.s. dollar, our reported international sales and net earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer u.s. dollars. also, while we often produce in the same geographic markets as our products are sold, expenses are more concentrated in the united states compared with sales, so that in a time of strengthening of the u.s. dollar, our profit margins could be reduced. while we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency exposures, this does not insulate us completely from foreign currency effects. we have recognized foreign exchange gains and losses related to the currency devaluations in venezuela and its designation as a highly inflationary economy under generally accepted accounting principles in the united states of america, or u.s. gaap, effective january 1, 2010. see foreign currency exchange rate risk, of item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, for further discussion. 14 table of contents we may use financial instruments from time to time to manage exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, which exposes us to counterparty credit risk for nonperformance. see note 12, derivatives and hedging activities, for further discussion, which is contained in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. the full realization of our deferred tax assets, including primarily those related to the settlement agreement may be affected by a number of factors. we have deferred tax assets related to the settlement agreement, other accruals not yet deductible for tax purposes, foreign net operating loss carry forwards and investment tax allowances, employee benefit items, and other items. we have established valuation allowances to reduce those deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. our ability to utilize these deferred tax assets depends in part upon our future operating results. we expect to realize these assets over an extended period. consequently, changes in tax laws could cause actual results to differ from projections. our largest deferred tax asset relates to our settlement agreement. the value of this asset, which was $368 million at december 31, 2010, may be affected by our tax situation at the time of the payment under the settlement agreement as well as by the value of our common stock at that time. the deferred tax asset reflects the fair market value of 18 million shares of our common stock at a post-split price of $17.86 per share based on the price when the settlement agreement was reached in 2002. see note 15, income taxes, for further discussion. our annual effective income tax rate can materially change as a result of changes in our u.s. and foreign mix of earnings and other factors including changes in tax laws and changes by regulatory authorities. our overall effective income tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of total earnings before tax. however, income tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global basis but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis. changes in statutory tax rates and laws, as well as ongoing audits by domestic and international authorities, could affect the amount of income taxes and other taxes paid by us. for example, legislative proposals to change u.s. taxation of non-u.s. earnings could increase our effective tax rate. also, changes in the mix of earnings between jurisdictions and assumptions used in the calculation of income taxes, among other factors, could have a significant effect on our overall effective income tax rate. we experience competition in our operating segments and in the geographic areas in which we operate. our products compete with similar products made by other manufacturers and with a number of other types of materials or products. we compete on the basis of performance characteristics of our products, as well as service, price and innovations in technology. a number of competing domestic and foreign companies are well-established. our inability to maintain a competitive advantage could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes, which would have a negative impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. a slowing pipeline of new technologies and solutions at favorable margins could adversely affect our performance and prospects for future growth. our competitive advantage is due in part to our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the development and introduction cycle of new products can be lengthy and involve high levels of investment. new products may not meet sales expectations or margin expectations due to many factors, including our inability to: (i) accurately predict demand, end-user preferences and evolving industry standards; (ii) resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner; or (iii) achieve manufacturing efficiencies. a major loss of or disruption in our manufacturing and distribution operations or our information systems and telecommunication resources could adversely affect our business. if we experienced a natural disaster, such as a tornado, hurricane, earthquake or other severe weather event, or a casualty loss from an event such as a fire or flood, at one of our larger strategic facilities or if such event affected a key supplier, our supply chain, or our information systems and telecommunication resources, then there could be a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. 15 table of contents the price of our common stock has on occasion experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the price of the common stock. one stockholder has beneficial ownership of approximately 32% of our common shares. the market price of our common stock has experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations greater than those experienced by the broader stock market. in addition, our announcements of our quarterly net earnings, future developments relating to the w. r. grace co. bankruptcy, litigation, the effects of animal and food-related health issues, spikes in raw material and energy related costs, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us, our customers, suppliers and competitors are among the events that could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. the sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the price of the common stock. the settlement agreement discussed above provides for the issuance of 18 million shares of our common stock. if this amount of common stock were to be sold in a relatively short period of trading, the sale could adversely affect the price of our common stock. see note 16, commitments and contingencies, under the caption cryovac transaction commitments and contingencies for further discussion. according to a schedule 13g/a filed with the sec on february 14, 2011, davis selected advisers, l.p. reported beneficial ownership of 51,458,302 shares, or approximately 32%, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. as such, davis selected advisers has a significant voting block with respect to matters submitted to a stockholder vote, including the election of directors and the approval of potential business combination transactions. while the schedule 13g/a filed by davis selected advisers, l.p. indicates that the beneficially owned shares of our common stock were not acquired for the purpose of changing or influencing the control of the company, if this stockholder were to change its purpose for holding our common stock from investment to attempting to change or influence our management, this concentration of our common stock could potentially affect us and the price of our common stock. weakness in the financial and credit markets and other factors could potentially lead to the impairment of the carrying amount of our goodwill and other long-lived assets. we have seven reporting units that are included in our segment reporting structure. the six reporting units with goodwill balances allocated to them are food packaging, food solutions, protective packaging, shrink packaging, specialty materials and medical applications. we test goodwill for impairment on a reporting unit basis annually during the fourth quarter of each year and at other times if events or circumstances exist that indicate the carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable. during 2010, we determined that there were no events or changes in circumstances that occurred that would indicate that the fair value of any of our reporting units may be below its carrying value. although we determined in 2010 that there were no events or changes in circumstances that occurred that would indicate that the fair value of any of our reporting units may be below its carrying value, the future occurrence of a potential indicator of impairment, such as: (i) a decrease in our expected net earnings; (ii) adverse equity market conditions; (iii) a decline in current market multiples; (iv) a decline in our common stock price; (v) a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climates; (vi) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; (vii) heightened competition; (viii) strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions; or (ix) a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of, could require an interim assessment for some or all of the reporting units before the next required annual assessment. in the event of significant adverse changes of the nature described above, we might have to recognize a non-cash impairment of goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. 16 table of contents product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial results or harm our reputation or the value of our brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of our products arise in the ordinary course of our business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm our reputation in the marketplace or adversely impact the value of our brands or our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. we could also be required to recall possibly defective products, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims could be excluded or exceed coverage limits under the terms of our insurance policies or could result in increased costs for such coverage. our subsidiaries hold substantially all of our assets and conduct substantially all of our operations, and as a result we rely on distributions or advances from our subsidiaries. we conduct substantially all of our business through two direct wholly-owned subsidiaries, cryovac, inc. and sealed air corporation (us). these two subsidiaries, directly and indirectly, own substantially all of the assets of our business and conduct operations themselves and through other subsidiaries around the globe. therefore, we depend on distributions or advances from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other obligations and to pay dividends with respect to shares of our common stock. contractual provisions, laws or regulations to which we or any of our subsidiaries may become subject, tax inefficiencies and the financial condition and operating requirements of subsidiaries may reduce funds available for service of our indebtedness, dividends, and general corporate purposes. cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements the sec encourages companies to disclose forward-looking statements so that investors can better understand a company future prospects and make informed investment decisions. some of our statements in this report, in documents incorporated by reference into this report and in our future oral and written statements, may be forward-looking. these statements reflect our beliefs and expectations as to future events and trends affecting our business, our consolidated financial position and our results of operations. these forward-looking statements are based upon our current expectations concerning future events and discuss, among other things, anticipated future financial performance and future business plans. forward-looking statements are identified by such words and phrases as anticipates, assumes, believes, could be, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans to, will and similar expressions. forward-looking statements are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements. except as required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in the conditions in the global financial markets, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices and the creditworthiness of our customers and suppliers, which may adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. we seek to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. we do not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rates from time to time, we may use interest rate swaps, collars or options to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. at december 31, 2010, we had outstanding interest rate swaps, but no outstanding collars or options. 53 table of contents the information set forth in item 8 of part ii of this annual report on form 10-k in note 12, derivatives and hedging activities, under the caption interest rate swaps is incorporated herein by reference. see note 13, fair value measurements and other financial instruments, for details of the methodology and inputs used to determine the fair value of our fixed rate debt. the fair value of our fixed rate debt varies with changes in interest rates. generally, the fair value of fixed rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would result in an increase of $57 million in the fair value of the total debt balance at december 31, 2010. these changes in the fair value of our fixed rate debt do not alter our obligations to repay the outstanding principal amount or any related interest of such debt. foreign exchange rates operations as a large global organization, we face exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could materially impact our consolidated financial position or results of operations in the future. see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, above for the impacts foreign currency translation had on our operations. venezuela economic events in venezuela have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risk. effective january 1, 2010, venezuela was designated a highly inflationary economy under u.s. gaap, and the u.s. dollar replaced the bolivar fuerte as the functional currency for our subsidiary in venezuela. accordingly, all bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities were re-measured into u.s. dollars using the current exchange rate available to us, and any changes in the exchange rate were reflected in foreign currency exchange gains and losses related to our venezuelan subsidiary on the consolidated statement of operations. also, in january 2010, the venezuelan government devalued the bolivar by resetting the official exchange rate from 2.15 bolivars per u.s. dollar to 4.3 bolivars per u.s. dollar for non-essential transactions and 2.60 bolivars per u.s. dollar for essential transactions. on january 1, 2010 we did not have access or permission to use the official exchange rate. accordingly, for the majority of our transactions, we accessed the parallel foreign currency exchange market (which was a rate of 5.95 bolivars per u.s. dollar at december 31, 2009) that was available to entities that did not have access to the official exchange rate. since we did not have access to the official exchange rate, we translated our venezuelan subsidiary balance sheet using the parallel rate at december 31, 2009. in may 2010, the venezuelan government closed the parallel foreign currency exchange market and in june 2010 replaced it with a new foreign currency exchange system, the transaction system in securities in foreign currency ( sitme ). the central bank of venezuela began accepting and approving applications, under certain conditions, for non government operated foreign exchange administrative board ( cadivi ) exchange transactions at the weighted-average implicit exchange rate obtained from the sitme. effective june 9, 2010, the sitme weighted average implicit exchange rate was 5.3 bolivars per u.s dollar. we did not access the sitme during 2010. from time to time during 2010 our access to the official exchange rate was restricted. however, as of december 31, 2010, we had access to the cadivi in venezuela. therefore, as of december 31, 2010, we re-measured the net bolivar-denominated monetary assets of approximately $16 million (consisting primarily of cash and cash equivalents) of our venezuelan subsidiary using the official exchange rate of 4.3 bolivars per u.s. dollar. at december 31, 2010, our venezuelan subsidiary had a negative cumulative translation adjustment balance of approximately $46 million. during 2010, we settled transactions at the applicable official exchange rates. as a result of the changes in the exchange rates upon settlement of bolivar-denominated transactions and upon the remeasurement of our venezuelan subsidiary financial statements, we recognized net gains of $6 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. 54 table of contents for the year ended december 31, 2010, less than 1% of our consolidated net sales were derived from our business in venezuela and approximately 2% of our consolidated operating profit was derived from our business in venezuela. effective january 1, 2011, the venezuelan government devalued the bolivar by eliminating the non-essential exchange rate of 2.60 bolivars per u.s. dollar. therefore, there are now only two legal exchange rates available. this includes the cadivi non-essential rate of 4.3 bolivars per u.s. dollar and the sitme rate of 5.3 bolivars per u.s. dollar. the potential future impact to our consolidated financial position and results of operations for future bolivar-denominated transactions will depend on our access to u.s. dollars and on the exchange rates in effect when we enter into, remeasure and settle transactions. therefore, it is difficult to predict the future impact until each transaction settles at its applicable exchange rate or gets remeasured into u.s. dollars. foreign currency forward contracts we use foreign currency forward contracts to fix the amounts payable or receivable on some transactions denominated in foreign currencies. a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates at december 31, 2010 would have caused us to pay approximately $24 million to terminate these contracts. our foreign currency forward contracts are described in note 12, derivatives and hedging activities, which is contained in part ii, item 8, and in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources derivative financial instruments foreign currency forward contracts, contained in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k, which information is incorporated herein by reference. we may use other derivative instruments from time to time, such as foreign exchange options to manage exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rate and currency swaps related to certain financing transactions. these instruments can potentially limit foreign exchange exposure and limit or adjust interest rate exposure by swapping borrowings denominated in one currency for borrowings denominated in another currency. at december 31, 2010, we had no foreign exchange options or interest rate and currency swap agreements outstanding. outstanding debt our outstanding debt is generally denominated in the functional currency of the borrower. we believe that this enables us to better match operating cash flows with debt service requirements and to better match the currency of assets and liabilities. the amount of outstanding debt denominated in a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar was $26 million at december 31, 2010 and $109 million at december 31, 2009. customer credit we are exposed to credit risk from our customers. in the normal course of business we extend credit to our customers if they satisfy pre-defined credit criteria. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the failure of our customers to make required payments. an additional allowance may be required if the financial condition of our customers deteriorates. the allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that management assesses to be appropriate to absorb estimated losses in the accounts receivable portfolio. our customers may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. our provision for bad debt expense was $7 million in 2010, $6 million in 2009 and $9 million in 2008. the allowance for doubtful accounts was $17 million at december 31, 2010 and $18 million at december 31, 2009. pensions recent market conditions have resulted in an unusually high degree of volatility and increased risks and short-term liquidity concerns associated with some of the plan assets held by our defined benefit pension plans, which have impacted the performance of some of the plan assets. based upon the annual valuation of our defined benefit 55 table of contents pension plans at december 31, 2010, we expect our net periodic benefit costs to be approximately $14 million in 2011. see note 14, profit sharing, retirement savings plans and defined benefit pension plans, for further details on our defined benefit pension plans. commodities we use various commodity raw materials such as plastic resins and energy products such as electric power and natural gas in conjunction with our manufacturing processes. generally, we acquire these components at market prices in the region in which they will be used and do not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. moreover, we seek to maintain appropriate levels of commodity raw material inventories thus minimizing the expense and risks of carrying excess inventories. we do not typically purchase substantial quantities in advance of production requirements. as a result, we are exposed to market risks related to changes in commodity prices of these components. 56 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 other matters quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. series a convertible preferred stock the company's series a preferred stock is listed on the new york stock exchange and is convertible at any time into approximately 0.885 of a share of common stock for each share of preferred stock. these shares vote with the common stock on an as-converted basis and are entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends, when and as declared by the board of directors, at an annual rate of $2.00 per share, payable quarterly in arrears on the first business day of the succeeding calendar quarter. the series a preferred stock ranks senior to the company's common stock and junior to the company's indebtedness. on and after march 31, 2003, the series a preferred stock is redeemable at the option of the company at a price of $51.00 per share declining ratably on each march 31 thereafter to $50.00 per share on and after march 31, 2008, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends. the series a preferred stock is subject to mandatory redemption on march 31, 2018 at $50.00 per share, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends, to the extent these shares remain outstanding. because it is subject to mandatory redemption, the series a convertible preferred stock is classified outside of the shareholders' equity section of the consolidated balance sheets. at its date of issuance, the fair value of the series a preferred stock exceeded its mandatory redemption amount primarily due to the common stock conversion feature. accordingly, the book value of the series a preferred stock is reflected in the consolidated balance sheets at its mandatory redemption value. shareholders' equity the company's shareholders' equity was $812,960,000 at december 31, 2002, $850,152,000 at december 31, 2001 and $753,129,000 at december 31, 2000. 24 shareholders' equity decreased in 2002 due to the following: a reduction in retained earnings arising from the company's net loss of $309,069,000 and preferred stock dividends of $53,845,000; additional foreign currency translation adjustments of $14,508,000; partially offset by: the $321,480,000 value of the 9,000,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance related to the asbestos settlement; and the excess of book value over the repurchase price of $10,291,000 recognized in connection with preferred stock repurchases. shareholders' equity increased in 2001 due to the following: net earnings of $156,697,000; the excess of book value over the repurchase price of $7,456,000 recognized in connection with preferred stock repurchases; partially offset by: preferred stock dividends of $55,024,000; and additional foreign currency translation adjustments of $19,931,000. other matters cryovac transaction on march 31, 1998 the company completed a multi-step transaction (the "cryovac transaction"), which brought the cryovac packaging business and the former sealed air corporation ("old sealed air") under the common ownership of the company. these businesses operate as subsidiaries of the company, and the company acts as a holding company. as part of that transaction, the cryovac packaging business, held by various direct and indirect subsidiaries of the company, was separated from the remaining businesses of the company. such remaining businesses were then contributed to a company now known as w. r. grace &amp; co. ("new grace"), whose shares were distributed to the company's stockholders. as a result, new grace became a separate publicly owned company. the company recapitalized its outstanding shares of common stock into a new common stock and a new convertible preferred stock. a subsidiary of the company then merged into old sealed air, which changed its name to sealed air corporation (us). the agreements pursuant to which the cryovac transaction was carried out are referred to below as the "transaction agreements." contingencies related to the cryovac transaction in connection with the cryovac transaction, new grace and its subsidiaries retained all liabilities arising out of their operations before the cryovac transaction, whether accruing or occurring before or after the cryovac transaction, other than liabilities arising from or relating to cryovac's operations. the liabilities retained by new grace include, among others, liabilities relating to asbestos-containing products previously manufactured or sold by new grace's subsidiaries prior to the cryovac transaction, including its primary u.s. operating subsidiary, w. r. grace &amp; co. conn., which has operated for decades and has been a subsidiary of new grace since the cryovac transaction. the transaction agreements provided that, should any claimant seek to hold the company, including any of its subsidiaries, responsible for liabilities of new grace or its subsidiaries, including such asbestos-related liabilities, new grace and its subsidiaries would indemnify and defend the company. 25 since the beginning of 2000, the company has been served with a number of lawsuits alleging that, as a result of the cryovac transaction, the company is responsible for alleged asbestos liabilities of new grace and its subsidiaries, certain of which were also named as co-defendants in some of these actions. these actions include several purported class actions and a number of personal injury lawsuits. some plaintiffs seek damages for personal injury or wrongful death, while others seek medical monitoring, environmental remediation or remedies related to an attic insulation product. neither old sealed air nor cryovac ever produced or sold any of the asbestos-containing materials that are the subjects of these cases. none of these cases has been resolved through judgment, settlement or otherwise. all such cases have been stayed in connection with new grace's chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding discussed below. while the allegations in these actions directed to the company vary, these actions all appear to allege that the transfer of the cryovac business as part of the cryovac transaction was a fraudulent transfer or gave rise to successor liability. under a theory of successor liability, plaintiffs with claims against new grace and its subsidiaries may attempt to hold the company liable for liabilities that arose with respect to activities conducted prior to the cryovac transaction by w. r. grace &amp; co. conn. or other new grace subsidiaries. a transfer would be a fraudulent transfer if the transferor received less than reasonably equivalent value and the transferor was insolvent or was rendered insolvent by the transfer, was engaged or was about to engage in a business for which its assets constitute unreasonably small capital, or intended to incur or believed that it would incur debts beyond its ability to pay as they mature. a transfer may also be fraudulent if it was made with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud creditors. if any transfers in connection with the cryovac transaction were found by a court to be fraudulent transfers, the company could be required to return the property or its value to the transferor or could be required to fund certain liabilities of new grace or its subsidiaries for the benefit of their creditors, including asbestos claimants. the company has reached an agreement in principle, described below, that will resolve all such claims. previously, the company was unable to estimate the loss or range of loss in the event that there had been a finding that the cryovac transaction was a fraudulent transfer or gave rise to successor liability. in the joint proxy statement furnished to their respective stockholders in connection with the cryovac transaction, both sealed air and grace stated that it was their belief that new grace and its subsidiaries were adequately capitalized and would be adequately capitalized after the cryovac transaction and that none of the transfers contemplated to occur in the cryovac transaction would be a fraudulent transfer. they also stated their belief that the cryovac transaction complied with other relevant laws. however, if a court applying the relevant legal standards had reached conclusions adverse to the company, such determination could have had a materially adverse effect on the company's consolidated results of operations and financial position. on april 2, 2001, new grace and certain of its subsidiaries filed a petition for reorganization under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code in the u.s. bankruptcy court in the district of delaware. new grace stated that the filing was made in response to a sharply increasing number of asbestos claims since 1999. in connection with its chapter 11 filing, new grace filed an application with the bankruptcy court seeking to stay, among others, all actions brought against the company (including certain of its subsidiaries) related to alleged asbestos liabilities of new grace and its subsidiaries or alleging fraudulent transfer claims. the court issued an order dated may 3, 2001, which was modified on january 22, 2002, under which all such filed or pending actions against the company were stayed and all such future actions are stayed upon filing and service on the company. no further proceedings involving the company can occur in the actions that have been stayed except upon further order of the bankruptcy court. 26 committees appointed to represent asbestos claimants in new grace's bankruptcy case received the court's permission to pursue fraudulent transfer and other claims against the company and its subsidiary cryovac, inc. and against fresenius, as discussed below. the claims against fresenius are based upon a 1996 transaction between fresenius and w. r. grace &amp; co. conn. fresenius is not affiliated with the company. in march 2002, the court ordered that the issues of the solvency of new grace following the cryovac transaction and whether new grace received reasonably equivalent value in the cryovac transaction would be tried on behalf of all creditors of new grace. the proceeding is pending in the u.s. bankruptcy court for the district of delaware (adv. no. 02-02210). in june 2002, the court permitted the u.s. government to intervene as a plaintiff in the fraudulent transfer proceeding, so that the u.s. government could pursue allegations that remediation expenses at certain sites were underestimated or omitted in the solvency analyses of new grace that were conducted at the time of the cryovac transaction. the court also permitted new grace, which asserted that the cryovac transaction was not a fraudulent transfer, to intervene in the proceeding. in july 2002, the court issued an interim ruling on the legal standards to be applied in the trial, holding, among other things, that, subject to certain limitations, post-1998 claims should be considered in the solvency analysis of new grace. the company believes that only claims and liabilities that were known or reasonably should have been known at the time of the 1998 cryovac transaction should be considered pursuant to the applicable standard. the trial was scheduled to commence december 9, 2002. on november 27, 2002, the company reached an agreement in principle with the committees prosecuting the claims against the company and cryovac, inc., to resolve all current and future asbestos-related claims arising from the cryovac transaction. on the same day, the court entered an order confirming that an amicable resolution of the disputes among the parties had been reached and that counsel for the company and the committees had agreed and bound the parties to the terms of the agreement in principle. as discussed above, the agreement in principle calls for payment of 9,000,000 shares of sealed air common stock and $512,500,000 in cash, plus interest on the cash payment at a 5.5% annual rate starting on december 21, 2002 and ending on the effective date of the new grace plan of reorganization, when payment must be made. such shares are subject to customary anti-dilution provisions (including the effects of stock splits, stock dividends and certain other events affecting the company's common stock). pursuant to the agreement, the company cannot seek indemnity from new grace for this payment. on december 3, 2002, the agreement in principle was approved by the company's board of directors. the company was advised that both of the committees had approved the agreement in principle as of december 5, 2002. the parties are jointly engaged in the process of drafting a definitive settlement agreement consistent with the terms of the agreement in principle. once signed by the appropriate parties, the settlement agreement will be presented to the court for approval and will eventually be incorporated into new grace's plan of reorganization and, assuming approval by new grace's creditors as part of the approval of the plan of reorganization, will then be implemented. the settlement, upon approval and implementation in the new grace bankruptcy, will provide that, upon the effective date of new grace's plan of reorganization and payment of the shares and cash, all present and future asbestos-related claims against the company and its affiliates that arise from alleged asbestos liabilities of new grace and its affiliates (including former affiliates that became affiliates of the company through the cryovac transaction) will be channeled to and become the responsibility of one or more trusts to be established as part of new grace's plan of reorganization. the settlement will also resolve all fraudulent transfer claims against the company and its affiliates arising from the cryovac transaction as well as the claims of fresenius described below. the settlement will provide that the company and its affiliates will receive releases of all such claims. as a condition to the company's obligation to make the payments required by the settlement, new grace's plan of reorganization must be consistent with the terms of the settlement, including provisions for the trusts and releases referred to above and for an injunction barring the prosecution of any asbestos-related 27 claims against the company and its affiliates. it is expected that the order approving the settlement agreement will also provide that the stay of proceedings involving the company described above will continue through the effective date of new grace's plan of reorganization, after which the company will be released from the liabilities asserted in those proceedings and their continued prosecution against the company will be enjoined. in january 2002, the company filed a declaratory judgment action against fresenius medical care holdings, inc., its parent, fresenius ag, a german company, and certain of its affiliates (collectively, "fresenius") in new york state court asking the court to resolve a contract dispute between the parties. fresenius contended that the company was obligated to indemnify fresenius for certain liabilities that fresenius might incur as a result of the 1996 fresenius transaction mentioned above. fresenius's contention was based on its interpretation of the agreements between fresenius and w. r. grace &amp; co. conn. in connection with the 1996 fresenius transaction. in february 2002, fresenius announced that it had accrued a charge of $172,000,000 for such potential liabilities, which include pre-transaction tax liabilities of new grace and the costs of defense of litigation arising from new grace's chapter 11 filing. the company believed that it was not responsible to indemnify fresenius under the 1996 agreements and filed the action in order to proceed to a resolution of fresenius's claims. in april 2002, fresenius filed a motion to dismiss the action and for entry of declaratory relief in its favor. the company opposed the motion, and in june 2002, the court reserved decision after oral argument. no written order has been issued, and the parties have requested the court to defer issuing a ruling pending implementation of the definitive settlement agreement between the company and the committees. as noted above, as a result of the november 27, 2002 agreement in principle referred to above, the parties expect that there will be mutual releases exchanged between fresenius and the company releasing any and all claims related to the 1996 fresenius transaction. in view of new grace's chapter 11 filing, the company may receive additional claims asserting that the company is liable for obligations that new grace had agreed to retain in the cryovac transaction and for which the company may be contingently liable. to date, no material additional claims have been asserted or threatened against the company. final determinations and accountings under the transaction agreements with respect to matters pertaining to the cryovac transaction had not been completed at the time of new grace's chapter 11 filing. the company expects to file a claim in the bankruptcy proceeding that will include all of the costs and liabilities that it has incurred or may incur that new grace agreed to retain or that are subject to indemnification by new grace under the transaction agreements other than payments to be made under the settlement agreement. new grace alleges that the company is responsible for certain amounts under the transaction agreements. any amounts for which the company may be liable to new grace may be used to offset new grace's liabilities to the company. costs and liabilities for which the company intends to seek indemnification by new grace will also include certain defense costs related to asbestos and fraudulent transfer litigation and the fresenius claims, the guaranteed debt paid by the company described above, and any of the other potential claims against the company mentioned above. except to the extent of any potential setoff or similar claim, the company expects that its claim will be as an unsecured creditor of new grace. it is not currently possible to determine the amount of the company's claim against new grace, the extent to which such claim may be secured by setoff, how much of that claim may be allowed, or the amount of the company's recovery on such claim, if any, in the bankruptcy proceeding. environmental matters the company is subject to loss contingencies resulting from environmental laws and regulations, and it accrues for anticipated costs associated with investigatory and remediation efforts when an assessment has indicated that a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. these accruals do not take into account any discounting for the time value of money and are not reduced by potential insurance 28 recoveries, if any. environmental liabilities are reassessed whenever circumstances become better defined or remediation efforts and their costs can be better estimated. these liabilities are evaluated periodically based on available information, including the progress of remedial investigations at each site, the current status of discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the methods and extent of remediation and the apportionment of costs among potentially responsible parties. as some of these issues are decided (the outcomes of which are subject to uncertainties) or new sites are assessed and costs can be reasonably estimated, the company adjusts the recorded accruals, as necessary. the company believes that such exposures are not material to the company's consolidated results of operations and financial position. the company believes that it has adequately reserved for all probable and estimable environmental exposures. recently issued statements of financial accounting standards in july 2001, the financial accounting standards board ("fasb") issued sfas no. 141, "business combinations" ("sfas no. 141"), and sfas no. 142, "goodwill and other intangible assets" ("sfas no. 142"). sfas no. 141 requires that the purchase method of accounting be used for all business combinations initiated after june 30, 2001 as well as all purchase method business combinations completed after june 30, 2001. sfas no. 142 requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives no longer be amortized, but instead be tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 142. this new standard also requires that intangible assets with definite useful lives be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values, and reviewed for impairment in accordance with sfas no. 144, "accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets." the company adopted the provisions of sfas no. 141 upon issuance and adopted sfas no. 142 effective january 1, 2002. any goodwill and any intangible assets determined to have an indefinite useful life that were acquired in a purchase business combination completed after june 30, 2001 were not amortized, but were evaluated for impairment. goodwill and intangible assets acquired in business combinations completed before july 1, 2001 were amortized through the end of 2001. in connection with the transitional impairment evaluation, sfas no. 142 required the company to assess whether goodwill and other intangible assets were impaired as of january 1, 2002. as required by this statement, the company completed its assessment process on a reporting unit basis as of june 30, 2002 and determined that no impairment charge was necessary as of january 1, 2002. a reporting unit is the operating segment unless, at businesses one level below that operating segment (the "component" level), discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management, and such businesses have economic characteristics that are different from the economic characteristics of the other components of the operating segments, in which case such component is the reporting unit. a fair value approach is used to test goodwill for impairment. an impairment charge is recognized for the amount, if any, by which the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its fair value. an estimate of fair values for the company as a whole and each of the company's reporting units was derived by using discounted cash flows, equity market capitalization and comparative market multiples. as of december 31, 2002 and 2001, the company had unamortized goodwill in the amount of $1,926,244,000 and $1,913,000,000, respectively. amortization expense related to goodwill was $57,005,000 and $51,776,000 in 2001 and 2000, respectively. beginning january 1, 2002, in accordance with sfas no. 142, the company is no longer recording amortization expense related to goodwill. although goodwill will no longer be systematically amortized, this statement requires that periodic reviews be conducted to assess whether or not the carrying amount of goodwill may be impaired. such reviews could result in future write-downs of goodwill which would be reflected as a charge against operating income. as required by sfas no. 142, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives have to be tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 142. the 29 company completed its annual testing for impairment for 2002 during the fourth quarter of 2002 and determined that no impairment charge was necessary on a reporting unit basis. as of december 31, 2002 and 2001, the company had identifiable intangible assets with definite useful lives with a gross carrying value of approximately $69,100,000 and $63,600,000, respectively, less accumulated amortization of approximately $47,700,000 and $40,100,000, respectively. amortization of identifiable intangible assets was approximately $7,200,000 for 2002. assuming no change in the gross carrying value of identifiable intangible assets from the value at december 31, 2002, the estimated amortization for the year ended december 31, 2003 and the next four succeeding years is approximately $7,200,000 per year. such assets are reflected in "other assets" in the company's consolidated balance sheets. at december 31, 2002 and 2001, there were no identifiable intangible assets with indefinite useful lives as defined by sfas no. 142. on january 1, 2003, the company adopted sfas no. 143, "asset retirement obligations" ("sfas no. 143"), which provides the accounting requirements for retirement obligations associated with tangible long-lived assets. this statement requires entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. the adoption of sfas no. 143 did not have a material impact on the company's consolidated financial statements. on january 1, 2002, the company adopted sfas no. 144, "accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets" ("sfas no. 144"), which excludes from the definition of long-lived assets goodwill and other intangibles that are not amortized in accordance with sfas no. 142. sfas no. 144 requires that the disposal of long-lived assets by sale be measured at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell, whether reported in continuing operations or in discontinued operations. sfas no. 144 also expands the reporting of discontinued operations to include components of an entity that have been or will be disposed of rather than limiting such discontinuance to a segment of a business. the adoption of sfas no. 144 did not have a material impact on the company's consolidated financial statements. in june 2002, the fasb issued sfas no. 146, "accounting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities" ("sfas no. 146"). sfas no. 146 nullifies emerging issues task force ("eitf") issue no. 94-3, "liability recognition for certain employee termination benefits and other costs to exit an activity (including certain costs incurred in a restructuring)" ("eitf 94-3") and requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized and measured initially at fair value in the period in which the liability is incurred. under eitf 94-3, a liability for an exit cost was required to be recognized at the date of an entity's commitment to an exit plan. the adoption of sfas no. 146 is expected to result in delayed recognition for certain types of costs as compared to the provisions of eitf 94-3. sfas no. 146 is effective for new exit or disposal activities that are initiated after december 31, 2002, and does not affect amounts currently reported in the company's consolidated financial statements. sfas no. 146 will affect the types and timing of costs included in future restructuring programs, if any. on january 1, 2003, the company adopted sfas no. 148, "accounting for stock-based compensation transition and disclosure" ("sfas no. 148"), which provides alternative methods of transition for companies that choose to switch to the fair value method of accounting for stock options. sfas no. 148 also makes changes in the disclosure requirements for stock-based compensation, regardless of which method of accounting is chosen. as discussed above under "financing activities", the company terminated all previously maintained stock option plans effective march 31, 1998 in connection with the cryovac transaction, except with respect to options that were still outstanding as of such date. the adoption of sfas no. 148 did not have a material impact on the company's consolidated financial statements. in november 2002, the fasb issued interpretation no. 45, "guarantor's accounting and disclosure requirements for guarantees, including indirect guarantees of indebtedness of others" 30 ("interpretation no. 45"). interpretation no. 45 requires the disclosure of certain guarantees existing at december 31, 2002. the company had no guarantees meeting the requirements of interpretation no. 45 at december 31, 2002. in addition, interpretation no. 45 requires the recognition of a liability for the fair value of the obligation of qualifying guarantee activities that are initiated or modified after december 31, 2002. accordingly, the company will apply the recognition provisions of interpretation no. 45 prospectively to applicable guarantee activities initiated after december 31, 2002. in january 2003, the fasb issued interpretation no. 46, "consolidation of variable interest entities" ("interpretation no. 46"). interpretation no. 46 requires that the assets, liabilities and results of the activity of variable interest entities be consolidated into the financial statements of the company that has the controlling financial interest. interpretation no. 46 also provides the framework for determining whether a variable interest entity should be consolidated based on voting interests or significant financial support provided to it. interpretation no. 46 will be effective for the company on february 1, 2003 for variable interest entities created after january 31, 2003, and on july 31, 2003 for variable interest entities created prior to february 1, 2003. based on its preliminary analysis of interpretation no. 46, the company does not currently expect the adoption of interpretation no. 46 to have a material impact on its 2003 consolidated financial statements. critical accounting policies and estimates the company's discussion and analysis of its results of operations and financial condition are based upon its consolidated financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states of america ("us gaap"). the preparation of financial statements in conformity with us gaap requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. estimates and assumptions are evaluated on an ongoing basis and are based on historical and other factors believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. the results of these estimates may form the basis of the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities and may not be readily apparent from other sources. actual results, under conditions and circumstances different from those assumed, may differ from estimates, and any such differences may be material to the company's consolidated financial statements. the company believes the following accounting policies are critical to its business operations and the understanding of results of operations and affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements: allowance for doubtful accounts the company maintains accounts receivable allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. additional allowances may be required if the financial condition of the company's customers deteriorates. commitments and contingencies litigation on an ongoing basis, the company assesses the potential liabilities related to any lawsuits or claims brought against the company. while it is typically very difficult to determine the timing and ultimate outcome of such actions, the company uses its best judgment to determine if it is probable that it will incur an expense related to the settlement or final adjudication of such matters and whether a reasonable estimation of such probable loss, if any, can be made. in assessing probable losses, the company makes estimates of the amount of insurance recoveries, if any. the company accrues a liability when it believes a loss is probable and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. due to the inherent uncertainties related to the eventual outcome of litigation and potential insurance recovery, it is possible that certain matters may be resolved for amounts materially different from any provisions or disclosures that the company has previously made. impairment of long-lived assets the company periodically reviews long-lived assets, other than goodwill, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. goodwill, in accordance with sfas no. 142, is reviewed 31 for possible impairment at least annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. a review of goodwill may be initiated prior to conducting the annual analysis if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired. assumptions and estimates used in the determination of impairment losses, such as future cash flows and disposition costs, may affect the carrying value of long-lived assets and possible impairment expense in the company's consolidated financial statements . self-insurance the company retains the obligation for certain claims and losses related to property, casualty, workers' compensation and employee benefit claims. the company accrues for outstanding reported claims, claims that have been incurred but not reported and projected claims based upon management's estimates of the aggregate liability for uninsured claims using historical experience, insurance company estimates and the estimated trends in claim values. although management believes it has the ability to adequately project and record estimated claim payments, it is possible that actual results could differ significantly from the recorded liabilities. pensions although the company maintains a non-contributory profit sharing plan and contributory thrift and retirement savings plans in which most u.s. employees of the company are eligible to participate, the company does maintain defined benefit pension plans for certain of its u.s. and non-u.s. employees. the company accounts for such pension plans in accordance with sfas no. 87, "employers' accounting for pensions" ("sfas no. 87"). under these accounting standards, assumptions are made regarding the valuation of benefit obligations and performance of plan assets. certain of these assumptions include the discount rate used to measure future obligations, the expected future rate of return on plan assets, the expected rate of future compensation increases and various other actuarial assumptions. changes to these assumptions could have a significant impact on costs and liabilities recorded under sfas no. 87. income taxes the company's deferred tax assets arise from net deductible temporary differences and tax benefit carryforwards. the company believes that its taxable earnings during the periods when the temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets become deductible or when tax benefit carryforwards may be utilized should be sufficient to realize the related future income tax benefits. for those jurisdictions where the expiration date of tax benefit carryforwards or the projected taxable earnings indicate that realization is not likely, a valuation allowance is provided. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, the company estimates future taxable earnings, with consideration for the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies and the realizability of tax benefit carryforwards, to determine which deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized in the future. valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets can be impacted by changes to tax laws, changes to statutory tax rates and future taxable earnings. in the event that actual results differ from these estimates in future periods, the company may need to adjust the valuation allowance, which could materially impact the company's consolidated financial statements. forward-looking statements certain statements made by the company in this report and in the documents incorporated by reference herein, and in future oral and written statements by the company may be forward-looking. these statements include comments as to the company's beliefs and, expectations as to future events and trends affecting the company's business, its results of operations and its financial condition. these forward-looking statements are based upon management's current expectations concerning future events and discuss, among other things, anticipated future performance and future business plans. forward-looking statements are identified by such words and phrases as "expects," "intends," "believes," "will continue," "plans to," "could be," "estimates" and similar expressions. forward-looking statements are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside the control of the company, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements. 32 the company recognizes that it is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may affect the future performance of the company, such as: economic, political, business and market conditions in the geographic areas in which it conducts business; the company's ability to hire, develop and retain talented employees worldwide; factors affecting the customers, industries and markets that use the company's packaging materials and systems; competitive factors; the company's development and commercialization of successful new products; the company's accomplishments in entering new markets and acquiring and integrating new businesses; changes in the company's relationships with customers and suppliers; acts and effects of war or terrorism; changes in the value of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar; changes in interest rates, credit availability and ratings; the company's access to financing and other sources of capital; the success of the company's key information systems projects; the magnitude and timing of the company's capital expenditures; the company's inventory management proficiency; raw material availability and pricing; production capacity; changes in energy-related expenses; the effect on the company of new pronouncements by accounting authorities; the approval and implementation of a definitive settlement agreement with the official committee of asbestos personal injury claimants, the official committee of asbestos property damage claimants and any other appropriate parties in the new grace bankruptcy proceeding; other effects on the company of the bankruptcy filing by new grace and its subsidiaries; other legal proceedings and claims (including environmental matters) involving the company; the effects of animal and food-related health issues (including bse ("mad-cow") and foot-and-mouth); and changes in domestic or foreign laws or regulations, or governmental or agency actions. 33 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. the company seeks to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rates from time to time, the company may use interest rate swaps, collars or options to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. during september 2002, the company terminated certain interest rate swaps and reflected a basis adjustment to the 8.75% senior notes for a portion of the cash received of approximately $2,416,000. such amount is being amortized and reflected as a component of interest expense over the remaining life of the 8.75% senior notes. at december 31, 2002 and 2001, the company had no interest rate swaps, collars or options outstanding. the fair value of the company's fixed rate debt varies with changes in interest rates. generally, the fair value of fixed rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. at december 31, 2002, the carrying value of the company's total debt was $923,434,000 of which approximately $812,569,000 was fixed rate debt. at december 31, 2001, the carrying value of the company's total debt was $925,602,000 of which $782,517,000 was fixed rate debt. the estimated fair value of the company's total debt, which includes the cost of replacing the company's fixed rate debt with borrowings at current market rates, was approximately $958,256,000 at december 31, 2002 compared to $889,434,000 at december 31, 2001. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would result in an increase in the fair value of the total debt balance at december 31, 2002 of approximately $25,656,000. such changes in the fair value of the company's fixed rate debt do not alter the company's obligations to repay the outstanding principal amount of such debt. foreign exchange rates the company may use other derivative instruments from time to time, such as foreign exchange options to manage exposure due to foreign exchange rates and interest rate and currency swaps to gain access to additional sources of international financing while limiting foreign exchange exposure and limiting or adjusting interest rate exposure by swapping borrowings in one currency for borrowings denominated in another currency. at december 31, 2002 and 2001, the company had no foreign exchange options or interest rate and currency swap agreements outstanding. the company uses foreign currency forward contracts to fix the amount payable on certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. the terms of such instruments are generally twelve months or less. at december 31, 2002 and 2001, the company had foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of approximately $146,910,000 and $266,900,000, respectively. the estimated fair values of these contracts, which represent the estimated net payments that would be paid or received by the company in the event of termination of these contracts based on the then current foreign exchange rates, were a net payable of approximately $32,000 and a net receivable of approximately $313,000 at december 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates at december 31, 2002 would have caused the company to pay approximately $650,000 to terminate these contracts. the company's foreign subsidiaries had outstanding debt of approximately $322,700,000 and $321,700,000 at december 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. such debt is generally denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing subsidiary. the company believes that this enables it to better match operating cash flows with debt service requirements and to better match foreign currency- denominated assets and liabilities, thereby reducing its need to enter into foreign exchange contracts. 34 commodities the company uses various commodity raw material and energy products in conjunction with its manufacturing processes. generally, the company acquires such components at market prices and does not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. as a result, the company is exposed to market risks related to changes in commodity prices of these components. 35quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 other matters quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. series a convertible preferred stock the company's series a preferred stock is listed on the new york stock exchange and is convertible at any time into approximately 0.885 of a share of common stock for each share of preferred stock. these shares vote with the common stock on an as-converted basis and are entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends, when and as declared by the board of directors, at an annual rate of $2.00 per share, payable quarterly in arrears on the first business day of the succeeding calendar quarter. the series a preferred stock ranks senior to the company's common stock and junior to the company's indebtedness. on and after march 31, 2003, the series a preferred stock is redeemable at the option of the company at a price of $51.00 per share declining ratably on each march 31 thereafter to $50.00 per share on and after march 31, 2008, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends. the series a preferred stock is subject to mandatory redemption on march 31, 2018 at $50.00 per share, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends, to the extent these shares remain outstanding. because it is subject to mandatory redemption, the series a convertible preferred stock is classified outside of the shareholders' equity section of the consolidated balance sheets. at its date of issuance, the fair value of the series a preferred stock exceeded its mandatory redemption amount primarily due to the common stock conversion feature. accordingly, the book value of the series a preferred stock is reflected in the consolidated balance sheets at its mandatory redemption value. shareholders' equity the company's shareholders' equity was $812,960,000 at december 31, 2002, $850,152,000 at december 31, 2001 and $753,129,000 at december 31, 2000. 24 shareholders' equity decreased in 2002 due to the following: a reduction in retained earnings arising from the company's net loss of $309,069,000 and preferred stock dividends of $53,845,000; additional foreign currency translation adjustments of $14,508,000; partially offset by: the $321,480,000 value of the 9,000,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance related to the asbestos settlement; and the excess of book value over the repurchase price of $10,291,000 recognized in connection with preferred stock repurchases. shareholders' equity increased in 2001 due to the following: net earnings of $156,697,000; the excess of book value over the repurchase price of $7,456,000 recognized in connection with preferred stock repurchases; partially offset by: preferred stock dividends of $55,024,000; and additional foreign currency translation adjustments of $19,931,000. other matters cryovac transaction on march 31, 1998 the company completed a multi-step transaction (the "cryovac transaction"), which brought the cryovac packaging business and the former sealed air corporation ("old sealed air") under the common ownership of the company. these businesses operate as subsidiaries of the company, and the company acts as a holding company. as part of that transaction, the cryovac packaging business, held by various direct and indirect subsidiaries of the company, was separated from the remaining businesses of the company. such remaining businesses were then contributed to a company now known as w. r. grace &amp; co. ("new grace"), whose shares were distributed to the company's stockholders. as a result, new grace became a separate publicly owned company. the company recapitalized its outstanding shares of common stock into a new common stock and a new convertible preferred stock. a subsidiary of the company then merged into old sealed air, which changed its name to sealed air corporation (us). the agreements pursuant to which the cryovac transaction was carried out are referred to below as the "transaction agreements." contingencies related to the cryovac transaction in connection with the cryovac transaction, new grace and its subsidiaries retained all liabilities arising out of their operations before the cryovac transaction, whether accruing or occurring before or after the cryovac transaction, other than liabilities arising from or relating to cryovac's operations. the liabilities retained by new grace include, among others, liabilities relating to asbestos-containing products previously manufactured or sold by new grace's subsidiaries prior to the cryovac transaction, including its primary u.s. operating subsidiary, w. r. grace &amp; co. conn., which has operated for decades and has been a subsidiary of new grace since the cryovac transaction. the transaction agreements provided that, should any claimant seek to hold the company, including any of its subsidiaries, responsible for liabilities of new grace or its subsidiaries, including such asbestos-related liabilities, new grace and its subsidiaries would indemnify and defend the company. 25 since the beginning of 2000, the company has been served with a number of lawsuits alleging that, as a result of the cryovac transaction, the company is responsible for alleged asbestos liabilities of new grace and its subsidiaries, certain of which were also named as co-defendants in some of these actions. these actions include several purported class actions and a number of personal injury lawsuits. some plaintiffs seek damages for personal injury or wrongful death, while others seek medical monitoring, environmental remediation or remedies related to an attic insulation product. neither old sealed air nor cryovac ever produced or sold any of the asbestos-containing materials that are the subjects of these cases. none of these cases has been resolved through judgment, settlement or otherwise. all such cases have been stayed in connection with new grace's chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding discussed below. while the allegations in these actions directed to the company vary, these actions all appear to allege that the transfer of the cryovac business as part of the cryovac transaction was a fraudulent transfer or gave rise to successor liability. under a theory of successor liability, plaintiffs with claims against new grace and its subsidiaries may attempt to hold the company liable for liabilities that arose with respect to activities conducted prior to the cryovac transaction by w. r. grace &amp; co. conn. or other new grace subsidiaries. a transfer would be a fraudulent transfer if the transferor received less than reasonably equivalent value and the transferor was insolvent or was rendered insolvent by the transfer, was engaged or was about to engage in a business for which its assets constitute unreasonably small capital, or intended to incur or believed that it would incur debts beyond its ability to pay as they mature. a transfer may also be fraudulent if it was made with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud creditors. if any transfers in connection with the cryovac transaction were found by a court to be fraudulent transfers, the company could be required to return the property or its value to the transferor or could be required to fund certain liabilities of new grace or its subsidiaries for the benefit of their creditors, including asbestos claimants. the company has reached an agreement in principle, described below, that will resolve all such claims. previously, the company was unable to estimate the loss or range of loss in the event that there had been a finding that the cryovac transaction was a fraudulent transfer or gave rise to successor liability. in the joint proxy statement furnished to their respective stockholders in connection with the cryovac transaction, both sealed air and grace stated that it was their belief that new grace and its subsidiaries were adequately capitalized and would be adequately capitalized after the cryovac transaction and that none of the transfers contemplated to occur in the cryovac transaction would be a fraudulent transfer. they also stated their belief that the cryovac transaction complied with other relevant laws. however, if a court applying the relevant legal standards had reached conclusions adverse to the company, such determination could have had a materially adverse effect on the company's consolidated results of operations and financial position. on april 2, 2001, new grace and certain of its subsidiaries filed a petition for reorganization under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code in the u.s. bankruptcy court in the district of delaware. new grace stated that the filing was made in response to a sharply increasing number of asbestos claims since 1999. in connection with its chapter 11 filing, new grace filed an application with the bankruptcy court seeking to stay, among others, all actions brought against the company (including certain of its subsidiaries) related to alleged asbestos liabilities of new grace and its subsidiaries or alleging fraudulent transfer claims. the court issued an order dated may 3, 2001, which was modified on january 22, 2002, under which all such filed or pending actions against the company were stayed and all such future actions are stayed upon filing and service on the company. no further proceedings involving the company can occur in the actions that have been stayed except upon further order of the bankruptcy court. committees appointed to represent asbestos claimants in new grace's bankruptcy case received the court's permission to pursue fraudulent transfer and other claims against the company and its 26 subsidiary cryovac, inc. and against fresenius, as discussed below. the claims against fresenius are based upon a 1996 transaction between fresenius and w. r. grace &amp; co. conn. fresenius is not affiliated with the company. in march 2002, the court ordered that the issues of the solvency of new grace following the cryovac transaction and whether new grace received reasonably equivalent value in the cryovac transaction would be tried on behalf of all creditors of new grace. the proceeding is pending in the u.s. bankruptcy court for the district of delaware (adv. no. 02-02210). in june 2002, the court permitted the u.s. government to intervene as a plaintiff in the fraudulent transfer proceeding, so that the u.s. government could pursue allegations that remediation expenses at certain sites were underestimated or omitted in the solvency analyses of new grace that were conducted at the time of the cryovac transaction. the court also permitted new grace, which asserted that the cryovac transaction was not a fraudulent transfer, to intervene in the proceeding. in july 2002, the court issued an interim ruling on the legal standards to be applied in the trial, holding, among other things, that, subject to certain limitations, post-1998 claims should be considered in the solvency analysis of new grace. the company believes that only claims and liabilities that were known or reasonably should have been known at the time of the 1998 cryovac transaction should be considered pursuant to the applicable standard. on september 20, 2002, in an unrelated bankruptcy case, official committee of unsecured creditors of cybergenics corp. v. chinery, 304 f.3d 316 (3d cir. 2002), the united states court of appeals for the third circuit held that only a trustee in bankruptcy or a debtor-in-possession could prosecute a fraudulent transfer action. since the plaintiffs in the fraudulent transfer case against the company were the committees and not such a trustee or debtor, and since the law of the third circuit is binding in the district of new jersey, where the proceeding was pending, it was uncertain whether the committees had authority under the law to prosecute the constructive fraudulent transfer case and, accordingly, the future posture of the case was uncertain. in light of the cybergenics decision, on september 27, 2002, the court postponed the trial date, which had originally been set for september 30, 2002, and then on october 24, 2002 issued an order rescheduling the trial to begin on december 2, 2002 but granting the parties permission to ask the third circuit to hear an immediate appeal of the order. on october 31, 2002, the company asked the third circuit for permission to appeal the order. given these circumstances, the company did not know whether the committees would be permitted to prosecute the fraudulent transfer and other claims against the company or whether the third circuit might hold that some other party (perhaps the debtor-in-possession or a trustee) might have to prosecute these claims if it so chose. in the w. r. grace bankruptcy proceeding, the debtor-in-possession had already taken the position that it did not believe that the 1998 transaction was a fraudulent transfer. on november 18, 2002, judge alfred m. wolin, the judge hearing the company's case, advised the parties that the cybergenics decision would be reheard en banc, which had the effect of vacating the prior decision under third circuit rules. judge wolin also ordered the company's fraudulent conveyance trial to commence on december 9, 2002, and ordered the parties to appear for mediation on november 27, 2002. on november 27, 2002, the company reached an agreement in principle with the committees prosecuting the claims against the company and cryovac, inc., to resolve all current and future asbestos-related claims arising from the cryovac transaction. on the same day, the court entered an order confirming that an amicable resolution of the disputes among the parties had been reached and that counsel for the company and the committees had agreed and bound the parties to the terms of the agreement in principle. as discussed above, the agreement in principle calls for payment of 9,000,000 shares of sealed air common stock and $512,500,000 in cash, plus interest on the cash payment at a 5.5% annual rate starting on december 21, 2002 and ending on the effective date of the new grace plan of reorganization, when payment must be made. such shares are subject to customary anti-dilution provisions (including the effects of stock splits, stock dividends and certain other events 27 affecting the company's common stock). pursuant to the agreement, the company cannot seek indemnity from new grace for this payment. on december 3, 2002, the agreement in principle was approved by the company's board of directors. the company was advised that both of the committees had approved the agreement in principle as of december 5, 2002. the parties are jointly engaged in the process of drafting a definitive settlement agreement consistent with the terms of the agreement in principle. once signed by the appropriate parties, the settlement agreement will be presented to the court for approval and will eventually be incorporated into new grace's plan of reorganization and, assuming approval by new grace's creditors as part of the approval of the plan of reorganization, will then be implemented. the settlement, upon approval and implementation in the new grace bankruptcy, will provide that, upon the effective date of new grace's plan of reorganization and payment of the shares and cash, all present and future asbestos-related claims against the company and its affiliates that arise from alleged asbestos liabilities of new grace and its affiliates (including former affiliates that became affiliates of the company through the cryovac transaction) will be channeled to and become the responsibility of one or more trusts to be established as part of new grace's plan of reorganization. the settlement will also resolve all fraudulent transfer claims against the company and its affiliates arising from the cryovac transaction as well as the claims of fresenius described below. the settlement will provide that the company and its affiliates will receive releases of all such claims. as a condition to the company's obligation to make the payments required by the settlement, new grace's plan of reorganization must be consistent with the terms of the settlement, including provisions for the trusts and releases referred to above and for an injunction barring the prosecution of any asbestos-related claims against the company and its affiliates. it is expected that the order approving the settlement agreement will also provide that the stay of proceedings involving the company described above will continue through the effective date of new grace's plan of reorganization, after which the company will be released from the liabilities asserted in those proceedings and their continued prosecution against the company will be enjoined. in january 2002, the company filed a declaratory judgment action against fresenius medical care holdings, inc., its parent, fresenius ag, a german company, and certain of its affiliates (collectively, "fresenius") in new york state court asking the court to resolve a contract dispute between the parties. fresenius contended that the company was obligated to indemnify fresenius for certain liabilities that fresenius might incur as a result of the 1996 fresenius transaction mentioned above. fresenius's contention was based on its interpretation of the agreements between fresenius and w. r. grace &amp; co. conn. in connection with the 1996 fresenius transaction. in february 2002, fresenius announced that it had accrued a charge of $172,000,000 for such potential liabilities, which include pre-transaction tax liabilities of new grace and the costs of defense of litigation arising from new grace's chapter 11 filing. the company believed that it was not responsible to indemnify fresenius under the 1996 agreements and filed the action in order to proceed to a resolution of fresenius's claims. in april 2002, fresenius filed a motion to dismiss the action and for entry of declaratory relief in its favor. the company opposed the motion, and in june 2002, the court reserved decision after oral argument. no written order has been issued, and the parties have requested the court to defer issuing a ruling pending implementation of the definitive settlement agreement between the company and the committees. as noted above, as a result of the november 27, 2002 agreement in principle referred to above, the parties expect that there will be mutual releases exchanged between fresenius and the company releasing any and all claims related to the 1996 fresenius transaction. in view of new grace's chapter 11 filing, the company may receive additional claims asserting that the company is liable for obligations that new grace had agreed to retain in the cryovac transaction and for which the company may be contingently liable. to date, no material additional claims have been asserted or threatened against the company. 28 final determinations and accountings under the transaction agreements with respect to matters pertaining to the cryovac transaction had not been completed at the time of new grace's chapter 11 filing. the company expects to file a claim in the bankruptcy proceeding that will include all of the costs and liabilities that it has incurred or may incur that new grace agreed to retain or that are subject to indemnification by new grace under the transaction agreements other than payments to be made under the settlement agreement. new grace alleges that the company is responsible for certain amounts under the transaction agreements. any amounts for which the company may be liable to new grace may be used to offset new grace's liabilities to the company. costs and liabilities for which the company intends to seek indemnification by new grace will also include certain defense costs related to asbestos and fraudulent transfer litigation and the fresenius claims, the guaranteed debt paid by the company described above, and any of the other potential claims against the company mentioned above. except to the extent of any potential setoff or similar claim, the company expects that its claim will be as an unsecured creditor of new grace. it is not currently possible to determine the amount of the company's claim against new grace, the extent to which such claim may be secured by setoff, how much of that claim may be allowed, or the amount of the company's recovery on such claim, if any, in the bankruptcy proceeding. environmental matters the company is subject to loss contingencies resulting from environmental laws and regulations, and it accrues for anticipated costs associated with investigatory and remediation efforts when an assessment has indicated that a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. these accruals do not take into account any discounting for the time value of money and are not reduced by potential insurance recoveries, if any. the company does not believe that it is reasonably possible that its liability in excess of the amounts that it has accrued for environmental matters will be material to its consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets or cash flows. environmental liabilities are reassessed whenever circumstances become better defined or remediation efforts and their costs can be better estimated. these liabilities are evaluated periodically based on available information, including the progress of remedial investigations at each site, the current status of discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the methods and extent of remediation and the apportionment of costs among potentially responsible parties. as some of these issues are decided (the outcomes of which are subject to uncertainties) or new sites are assessed and costs can be reasonably estimated, the company adjusts the recorded accruals, as necessary. the company believes that such exposures are not material to the company's consolidated results of operations and financial position. the company believes that it has adequately reserved for all probable and estimable environmental exposures. recently issued statements of financial accounting standards in july 2001, the financial accounting standards board ("fasb") issued sfas no. 141, "business combinations" ("sfas no. 141"), and sfas no. 142, "goodwill and other intangible assets" ("sfas no. 142"). sfas no. 141 requires that the purchase method of accounting be used for all business combinations initiated after june 30, 2001 as well as all purchase method business combinations completed after june 30, 2001. sfas no. 142 requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives no longer be amortized, but instead be tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 142. this new standard also requires that intangible assets with definite useful lives be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values, and reviewed for impairment in accordance with sfas no. 144, "accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets." the company adopted the provisions of sfas no. 141 upon issuance and adopted sfas no. 142 effective january 1, 2002. any goodwill and any intangible assets determined to have an indefinite useful life that were acquired in a purchase business combination completed after june 30, 2001 were not amortized, but were evaluated for impairment. 29 goodwill and intangible assets acquired in business combinations completed before july 1, 2001 were amortized through the end of 2001. in connection with the transitional impairment evaluation, sfas no. 142 required the company to assess whether goodwill and other intangible assets were impaired as of january 1, 2002. as required by this statement, the company completed its assessment process on a reporting unit basis as of june 30, 2002 and determined that no impairment charge was necessary as of january 1, 2002. a reporting unit is the operating segment unless, at businesses one level below that operating segment (the "component" level), discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management, and such businesses have economic characteristics that are different from the economic characteristics of the other components of the operating segments, in which case such component is the reporting unit. a fair value approach is used to test goodwill for impairment. an impairment charge is recognized for the amount, if any, by which the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its fair value. an estimate of fair values for the company as a whole and each of the company's reporting units was derived by using discounted cash flows, equity market capitalization and comparative market multiples. as of december 31, 2002 and 2001, the company had unamortized goodwill in the amount of $1,926,244,000 and $1,913,000,000, respectively. amortization expense related to goodwill was $57,005,000 and $51,776,000 in 2001 and 2000, respectively. beginning january 1, 2002, in accordance with sfas no. 142, the company is no longer recording amortization expense related to goodwill. although goodwill will no longer be systematically amortized, this statement requires that periodic reviews be conducted to assess whether or not the carrying amount of goodwill may be impaired. such reviews could result in future write-downs of goodwill which would be reflected as a charge against operating income. as required by sfas no. 142, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives have to be tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 142. the company completed its annual testing for impairment for 2002 during the fourth quarter of 2002 and determined that no impairment charge was necessary on a reporting unit basis. as of december 31, 2002 and 2001, the company had identifiable intangible assets with definite useful lives with a gross carrying value of approximately $69,100,000 and $63,600,000, respectively, less accumulated amortization of approximately $47,700,000 and $40,100,000, respectively. such identifiable intangible assets therefore are immaterial to the company's consolidated balance sheets. amortization of identifiable intangible assets was approximately $7,200,000 for 2002. assuming no change in the gross carrying value of identifiable intangible assets from the value at december 31, 2002, the estimated amortization for the year ended december 31, 2003 and the next four succeeding years is approximately $7,200,000 per year. such assets are reflected in "other assets" in the company's consolidated balance sheets. at december 31, 2002 and 2001, there were no identifiable intangible assets with indefinite useful lives as defined by sfas no. 142. on january 1, 2003, the company adopted sfas no. 143, "asset retirement obligations" ("sfas no. 143"), which provides the accounting requirements for retirement obligations associated with tangible long-lived assets. this statement requires entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. the adoption of sfas no. 143 did not have a material impact on the company's consolidated financial statements. on january 1, 2002, the company adopted sfas no. 144, "accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets" ("sfas no. 144"), which excludes from the definition of long-lived assets goodwill and other intangibles that are not amortized in accordance with sfas no. 142. sfas no. 144 requires that the disposal of long-lived assets by sale be measured at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell, whether reported in continuing operations or in discontinued operations. sfas no. 144 also expands the reporting of discontinued operations to include components of an entity that have been or will be disposed of rather than limiting such discontinuance to a segment of a 30 business. the adoption of sfas no. 144 did not have a material impact on the company's consolidated financial statements. in june 2002, the fasb issued sfas no. 146, "accounting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities" ("sfas no. 146"). sfas no. 146 nullifies emerging issues task force ("eitf") issue no. 94-3, "liability recognition for certain employee termination benefits and other costs to exit an activity (including certain costs incurred in a restructuring)" ("eitf 94-3") and requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized and measured initially at fair value in the period in which the liability is incurred. under eitf 94-3, a liability for an exit cost was required to be recognized at the date of an entity's commitment to an exit plan. the adoption of sfas no. 146 is expected to result in delayed recognition for certain types of costs as compared to the provisions of eitf 94-3. sfas no. 146 is effective for new exit or disposal activities that are initiated after december 31, 2002, and does not affect amounts currently reported in the company's consolidated financial statements. sfas no. 146 will affect the types and timing of costs included in future restructuring programs, if any. on january 1, 2003, the company adopted sfas no. 148, "accounting for stock-based compensation transition and disclosure" ("sfas no. 148"), which provides alternative methods of transition for companies that choose to switch to the fair value method of accounting for stock options. sfas no. 148 also makes changes in the disclosure requirements for stock-based compensation, regardless of which method of accounting is chosen. as discussed above under "financing activities", the company terminated all previously maintained stock option plans effective march 31, 1998 in connection with the cryovac transaction, except with respect to options that were still outstanding as of such date. the adoption of sfas no. 148 did not have a material impact on the company's consolidated financial statements. in november 2002, the fasb issued interpretation no. 45, "guarantor's accounting and disclosure requirements for guarantees, including indirect guarantees of indebtedness of others" ("interpretation no. 45"). interpretation no. 45 requires the disclosure of certain guarantees existing at december 31, 2002. the company had no guarantees meeting the requirements of interpretation no. 45 at december 31, 2002. in addition, interpretation no. 45 requires the recognition of a liability for the fair value of the obligation of qualifying guarantee activities that are initiated or modified after december 31, 2002. accordingly, the company will apply the recognition provisions of interpretation no. 45 prospectively to applicable guarantee activities initiated after december 31, 2002. in january 2003, the fasb issued interpretation no. 46, "consolidation of variable interest entities" ("interpretation no. 46"). interpretation no. 46 requires that the assets, liabilities and results of the activity of variable interest entities be consolidated into the financial statements of the company that has the controlling financial interest. interpretation no. 46 also provides the framework for determining whether a variable interest entity should be consolidated based on voting interests or significant financial support provided to it. interpretation no. 46 will be effective for the company on february 1, 2003 for variable interest entities created after january 31, 2003, and on july 31, 2003 for variable interest entities created prior to february 1, 2003. based on its preliminary analysis of interpretation no. 46, the company does not currently expect the adoption of interpretation no. 46 to have a material impact on its 2003 consolidated financial statements. critical accounting policies and estimates the company's discussion and analysis of its results of operations and financial condition are based upon its consolidated financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states of america ("us gaap"). the preparation of financial statements in conformity with us gaap requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. estimates and assumptions are evaluated on an ongoing 31 basis and are based on historical and other factors believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. the results of these estimates may form the basis of the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities and may not be readily apparent from other sources. actual results, under conditions and circumstances different from those assumed, may differ from estimates, and any such differences may be material to the company's consolidated financial statements. the company believes the following accounting policies are critical to its business operations and the understanding of results of operations and affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements: allowance for doubtful accounts the company maintains accounts receivable allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. additional allowances may be required if the financial condition of the company's customers deteriorates. commitments and contingencies litigation on an ongoing basis, the company assesses the potential liabilities related to any lawsuits or claims brought against the company. while it is typically very difficult to determine the timing and ultimate outcome of such actions, the company uses its best judgment to determine if it is probable that it will incur an expense related to the settlement or final adjudication of such matters and whether a reasonable estimation of such probable loss, if any, can be made. in assessing probable losses, the company makes estimates of the amount of insurance recoveries, if any. the company accrues a liability when it believes a loss is probable and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. due to the inherent uncertainties related to the eventual outcome of litigation and potential insurance recovery, it is possible that certain matters may be resolved for amounts materially different from any provisions or disclosures that the company has previously made. impairment of long-lived assets the company periodically reviews long-lived assets, other than goodwill, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. goodwill, in accordance with sfas no. 142, is reviewed for possible impairment at least annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. a review of goodwill may be initiated prior to conducting the annual analysis if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired. assumptions and estimates used in the determination of impairment losses, such as future cash flows and disposition costs, may affect the carrying value of long-lived assets and possible impairment expense in the company's consolidated financial statements . self-insurance the company retains the obligation for certain claims and losses related to property, casualty, workers' compensation and employee benefit claims. the company accrues for outstanding reported claims, claims that have been incurred but not reported and projected claims based upon management's estimates of the aggregate liability for uninsured claims using historical experience, insurance company estimates and the estimated trends in claim values. although management believes it has the ability to adequately project and record estimated claim payments, it is possible that actual results could differ significantly from the recorded liabilities. pensions although the company maintains a non-contributory profit sharing plan and contributory thrift and retirement savings plans in which most u.s. employees of the company are eligible to participate, the company does maintain defined benefit pension plans for certain of its u.s. and non-u.s. employees. the company accounts for such pension plans in accordance with sfas no. 87, "employers' accounting for pensions" ("sfas no. 87"). under these accounting standards, assumptions are made regarding the valuation of benefit obligations and performance of plan assets. certain of these assumptions include the discount rate used to measure future obligations, the expected future rate of return on plan assets, the expected rate of future compensation increases and various other actuarial assumptions. changes to these assumptions could have a significant impact on costs and liabilities recorded under sfas no. 87. 32 income taxes the company's deferred tax assets arise from net deductible temporary differences and tax benefit carryforwards. the company believes that its taxable earnings during the periods when the temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets become deductible or when tax benefit carryforwards may be utilized should be sufficient to realize the related future income tax benefits. for those jurisdictions where the expiration date of tax benefit carryforwards or the projected taxable earnings indicate that realization is not likely, a valuation allowance is provided. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, the company estimates future taxable earnings, with consideration for the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies and the realizability of tax benefit carryforwards, to determine which deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized in the future. valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets can be impacted by changes to tax laws, changes to statutory tax rates and future taxable earnings. in the event that actual results differ from these estimates in future periods, the company may need to adjust the valuation allowance, which could materially impact the company's consolidated financial statements. forward-looking statements certain statements made by the company in this report and in the documents incorporated by reference herein, and in future oral and written statements by the company may be forward-looking. these statements include comments as to the company's beliefs and, expectations as to future events and trends affecting the company's business, its results of operations and its financial condition. these forward-looking statements are based upon management's current expectations concerning future events and discuss, among other things, anticipated future performance and future business plans. forward-looking statements are identified by such words and phrases as "expects," "intends," "believes," "will continue," "plans to," "could be," "estimates" and similar expressions. forward-looking statements are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside the control of the company, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements. the company recognizes that it is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may affect the future performance of the company, such as: economic, political, business and market conditions in the geographic areas in which it conducts business; the company's ability to hire, develop and retain talented employees worldwide; factors affecting the customers, industries and markets that use the company's packaging materials and systems; competitive factors; the company's development and commercialization of successful new products; the company's accomplishments in entering new markets and acquiring and integrating new businesses; changes in the company's relationships with customers and suppliers; acts and effects of war or terrorism; changes in the value of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar; changes in interest rates, credit availability and ratings; the company's access to financing and other sources of capital; the success of the company's key information systems projects; the magnitude and timing of the company's capital expenditures; 33 the company's inventory management proficiency; raw material availability and pricing; production capacity; changes in energy-related expenses; the effect on the company of new pronouncements by accounting authorities; the approval and implementation of a definitive settlement agreement with the official committee of asbestos personal injury claimants, the official committee of asbestos property damage claimants and any other appropriate parties in the new grace bankruptcy proceeding; other effects on the company of the bankruptcy filing by new grace and its subsidiaries; other legal proceedings and claims (including environmental matters) involving the company; the effects of animal and food-related health issues (including bse ("mad-cow") and foot-and-mouth); and changes in domestic or foreign laws or regulations, or governmental or agency actions. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. the company seeks to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rates from time to time, the company may use interest rate swaps, collars or options to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. during september 2002, the company terminated certain interest rate swaps and reflected a basis adjustment to the 8.75% senior notes for a portion of the cash received of approximately $2,416,000. such amount is being amortized and reflected as a component of interest expense over the remaining life of the 8.75% senior notes. at december 31, 2002 and 2001, the company had no interest rate swaps, collars or options outstanding. the fair value of the company's fixed rate debt varies with changes in interest rates. generally, the fair value of fixed rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. at december 31, 2002, the carrying value of the company's total debt was $923,434,000 of which approximately $812,569,000 was fixed rate debt. at december 31, 2001, the carrying value of the company's total debt was $925,602,000 of which $782,517,000 was fixed rate debt. the estimated fair value of the company's total debt, which includes the cost of replacing the company's fixed rate debt with borrowings at current market rates, was approximately $958,256,000 at december 31, 2002 compared to $889,434,000 at december 31, 2001. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would result in an increase in the fair value of the total debt balance at december 31, 2002 of approximately $25,656,000. such changes in the fair value of the company's fixed rate debt do not alter the company's obligations to repay the outstanding principal amount of such debt. foreign exchange rates the company may use other derivative instruments from time to time, such as foreign exchange options to manage exposure due to foreign exchange rates and interest rate and currency swaps to gain access to additional sources of international financing while limiting foreign exchange exposure and limiting or adjusting interest rate exposure by swapping borrowings in one currency for borrowings denominated in another currency. at december 31, 2002 and 2001, the company had no foreign exchange options or interest rate and currency swap agreements outstanding. 34 the company uses foreign currency forward contracts to fix the amount payable on certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. the terms of such instruments are generally twelve months or less. at december 31, 2002 and 2001, the company had foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of approximately $146,910,000 and $266,900,000, respectively. the estimated fair values of these contracts, which represent the estimated net payments that would be paid or received by the company in the event of termination of these contracts based on the then current foreign exchange rates, were a net payable of approximately $32,000 and a net receivable of approximately $313,000 at december 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates at december 31, 2002 would have caused the company to pay approximately $650,000 to terminate these contracts. the company's foreign subsidiaries had outstanding debt of approximately $322,700,000 and $321,700,000 at december 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. such debt is generally denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing subsidiary. the company believes that this enables it to better match operating cash flows with debt service requirements and to better match foreign currency- denominated assets and liabilities, thereby reducing its need to enter into foreign exchange contracts. commodities the company uses various commodity raw material and energy products in conjunction with its manufacturing processes. generally, the company acquires such components at market prices and does not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. as a result, the company is exposed to market risks related to changes in commodity prices of these components. 35quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. the company seeks to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed 35 appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rates from time to time, the company may use interest rate swaps, collars or options to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. 2003 interest rate swaps: during 2003, the company entered into interest rate swaps with a total notional amount of $500.0 million that qualify and were designated as fair value hedges. the interest rate swaps were entered into in order to convert a portion of the 5.375% senior notes and the 8.75% senior notes into floating rate debt. in connection with the company's repurchase of a portion of the 8.75% senior notes in december 2003, the company terminated interest rate swaps with a total notional amount of $100.0 million and received net cash proceeds of $0.7 million. at december 31, 2003, the company recorded the following adjustments to long-term debt: an adjustment to record a decrease in the fair value of the 5.375% senior notes due to changes in interest rates of $6.1 million and an offsetting adjustment to other liabilities to record the fair value of the related interest rate swaps; and an adjustment to record an increase in the fair value of the 8.75% senior notes due to changes in interest rates of $3.8 million and an offsetting adjustment to other assets to record the fair value of the related interest rate swaps. the company also reduced interest expense $4.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2003, due to the impact of interest rate swaps that were outstanding during the year. 2002 interest rate swaps: in june 2002, the company entered into two interest rate swap agreements (with a total notional amount of $50.0 million) that were qualified and designated as fair value hedges in accordance with sfas no. 133. these agreements were entered into in order to convert a portion of the 8.75% senior notes fixed rate debt into floating rate debt. during september 2002, the company terminated these swaps and reflected a basis adjustment to the 8.75% senior notes for a portion of the cash received of approximately $2.4 million. the company is amortizing this amount and reflecting it as a component of interest expense over the remaining life of the 8.75% senior notes. the company was not party to any interest rate swap agreements at december 31, 2002. at december 31, 2003 and 2002, the company had no interest rate collars or options outstanding. the fair value of the company's fixed rate debt varies with changes in interest rates. generally, the fair value of fixed rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. at december 31, 2003, the carrying value of the company's total debt, giving effect to the impact of the interest rate swaps, was $2,280.4 million, of which $2,262.2 million was fixed rate debt. at december 31, 2002, the carrying value of the company's total debt was $923.4 million, of which approximately $812.6 million was fixed rate debt. the estimated fair value of the company's total debt, giving effect to the impact of the interest rate swaps, which reflects the cost of replacing the company's fixed rate debt with borrowings at current market rates, was $2,445.3 million at december 31, 2003 compared to $958.3 million at december 31, 2002. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would result in an increase in the fair value of the total debt balance at december 31, 2003 of $101.2 million. these changes in the fair value of the company's fixed rate debt do not alter the company's obligations to repay the outstanding principal amount of this debt. 36 foreign exchange rates the company may use other derivative instruments from time to time, such as foreign exchange options to manage exposure due to foreign exchange rates and interest rate and currency swaps to gain access to additional sources of international financing, while limiting foreign exchange exposure and limiting or adjusting interest rate exposure by swapping borrowings in one currency for borrowings denominated in another currency. at december 31, 2003 and 2002, the company had no foreign exchange options or interest rate and currency swap agreements outstanding. the company uses foreign currency forward contracts to fix the amount payable on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. the terms of these instruments are generally twelve months or less. at december 31, 2003 and 2002, the company had foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of approximately $161.9 million and $146.9 million, respectively. the estimated fair values of these contracts, which represent the estimated net payments that would be paid or received by the company in the event of termination of these contracts based on the then current foreign exchange rates, was a net payable of $0.2 million and zero at december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates at december 31, 2003 would have caused the company to pay approximately $0.4 million to terminate these contracts. the company's foreign subsidiaries had outstanding debt of approximately $22.7 million and $322.7 million at december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. this debt is generally denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing subsidiary. the company believes that this enables it to better match operating cash flows with debt service requirements and to better match foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities, thereby reducing its need to enter into foreign exchange contracts. commodities the company uses various commodity raw material and energy products in conjunction with its manufacturing processes. generally, the company acquires these components at market prices and does not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. as a result, the company is exposed to market risks related to changes in commodity prices of these components. 37quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices, which may adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. the company seeks to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rates from time to time, the company may use interest rate swaps, collars or options to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. the company's interest rate swaps are described in note 14, "derivatives and hedging activities," of the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which is contained in item 8 of part ii of this annual report on form 10-k. the company reduced interest expense by $6.2 million and $4.2 million for the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, due to the impact of interest rate swaps that were outstanding during each year. at december 31, 2004 and 2003, the company had no collars or options outstanding. the fair value of the company's fixed rate debt varies with changes in interest rates. generally, the fair value of fixed rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. at december 31, 2004, the carrying value of the company's total debt, which includes the impact of outstanding interest rate swaps, was $2,111.6 million of which $2,091.8 million was fixed-rate debt. at december 31, 2003, the carrying value of the company's total debt, which includes the impact of outstanding interest rate swaps, was $2,280.4 million of which approximately $2,262.2 million was fixed-rate debt. the estimated fair value of the company's total debt, including the impact of outstanding interest rate swaps, and the cost of replacing the company's fixed rate debt with borrowings at current market rates, was $2,231.6 million at december 31, 2004 compared with $2,445.3 million at december 31, 2003. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would result in an 39 increase in the fair value of the total debt balance at december 31, 2004 of $123.7 million. these changes in the fair value of the company's fixed rate debt do not alter the company's obligations to repay the outstanding principal amount of such debt. foreign exchange rates the company may use other derivative instruments from time to time, such as foreign exchange options to manage exposure due to foreign exchange rates and interest rate and currency swaps to gain access to additional sources of international financing, while limiting foreign exchange exposure and limiting or adjusting interest rate exposure by swapping borrowings in one currency for borrowings denominated in another currency. at december 31, 2004 and 2003, the company had no foreign exchange options or interest rate and currency swap agreements outstanding. the company uses foreign currency forward contracts to fix the amount payable on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. the terms of these instruments are generally twelve months or less. at december 31, 2004 and 2003, the company had foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of approximately $342.3 million and $161.9 million, respectively. the estimated fair values of these contracts, which represent the estimated net payments that would be paid or received by the company in the event of termination of these contracts based on the then current foreign exchange rates, was zero and a net payable of $0.2 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates at december 31, 2004 would have caused the company to pay approximately $3.1 million to terminate these contracts. the company's outstanding debt is generally denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing subsidiary. the amount of outstanding debt denominated in a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar was $292.0 million and $270.6 million at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. the company believes that this enables it to better match operating cash flows with debt service requirements and to better match the currency of assets and liabilities. commodities the company uses various commodity raw materials such as plastic resins and energy products such as electric power and natural gas in conjunction with its manufacturing processes. generally, the company acquires these components at market prices and does not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. moreover, the company maintains minimal inventory levels of commodity raw materials and does not purchase substantial quantities in advance of its production requirements. as a result, the company is exposed to market risks related to changes in commodity prices of these components. 40risk factors cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements risk factors introduction investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. these are the most significant factors that make investing in the company risky; however, they are not the only factors that should be considered in making an investment decision. this annual report on form 10-k also contains and may incorporate by reference from the company's proxy statement for its 2006 annual meeting of stockholders, or from exhibits, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. see the "cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements" below. the company's actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including the risks faced by the company described below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k or in documents incorporated by reference in this report. the company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. the trading price of the company's securities could decline due to any of these risks, and investors in the company's securities may lose all or part of their investment. asbestos litigation and related litigation if the settlement of the asbestos claims that the company has agreed to is not implemented, the company will not be released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against it arising from a 1998 transaction with w. r. grace &amp; co. further, the company has been served with a complaint in a lawsuit seeking class action status concerning the company's public disclosures regarding these asbestos-related claims. the company is also a defendant in a number of asbestos-related actions in canada arising from grace's activities in canada prior to 1998. on november 27, 2002, the company reached an agreement in principle with the official committee of asbestos personal injury claimants and the official committee of asbestos property damage claimants appointed to represent asbestos claimants in the w. r. grace &amp; co. bankruptcy case to resolve all current and future asbestos-related claims made against the company and its affiliates. the settlement will also resolve the fraudulent transfer claims and successor liability claims, as well as indemnification claims by fresenius medical care holdings, inc. and affiliated companies in connection with the cryovac transaction. the cryovac transaction was a multi-step transaction, completed on march 31, 1998, which brought the cryovac packaging business and the former sealed air corporation's business under the common ownership of the company. the parties to the agreement in principle signed a definitive settlement agreement as of november 10, 2003 consistent with the terms of the agreement in principle. on june 27, 2005, the u.s. bankruptcy court for the district of delaware, where the grace bankruptcy case is pending, signed an order approving the definitive settlement agreement. although grace is not a party to the settlement agreement, under the terms of the order, grace is directed to comply with the settlement agreement subject to limited exceptions. if the settlement agreement does not become effective, either because grace fails to emerge from bankruptcy or because grace does not emerge from bankruptcy with a plan of reorganization that is consistent with the terms of the settlement agreement, then the company will not be released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against the company and its affiliates noted above, and all of these claims would remain pending and would have to be resolved through other means, such as through agreement on alternative settlement terms or trials. in that case, the company could face liabilities that are 8 significantly different from its obligations under the settlement agreement. the company cannot estimate at this time what those differences or their magnitude may be. in the event these liabilities are materially larger than the current existing obligations, they could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. although grace filed a proposed plan of reorganization with the bankruptcy court in january 2005, the company cannot predict when a final plan of reorganization will become effective or whether the final plan will be consistent with the terms of the settlement agreement. the company is a defendant in the case of senn v. hickey, et al. (case no. 03-cv-4372) in the u.s. district court for the district of new jersey (newark). this lawsuit seeks class action status on behalf of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired securities of the company during the period from march 27, 2000 through july 30, 2002. the lawsuit names the company and five current and former officers and directors of the company as defendants. one of these individuals and the company remain as defendants after a partial grant of the defendants' motion to dismiss the action. the plaintiff's principal allegations against the defendants are that during the above period the defendants materially misled the investing public, artificially inflated the price of the company's common stock by publicly issuing false and misleading statements and violated u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, or gaap, by failing to properly account and accrue for the company's contingent liability for asbestos claims arising from past operations of grace. the plaintiffs seek compensatory damages and other relief. if the court determines that the company is liable in this case, the company could be required to pay substantial damages, which the company cannot estimate at this time and which could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. since november 2004, the company and specified subsidiaries have been named as defendants in a number of cases, including a number of putative class actions, brought in canada as a result of grace's alleged marketing, manufacturing or distributing of asbestos or asbestos-containing products in canada. grace has agreed to defend and indemnify the company and its subsidiaries in these cases. the canadian cases are currently stayed, and grace's proposed plan of reorganization provides for payment of these claims and enforcement of the plan of reorganization in the canadian courts. however, if grace's final plan does not make the same provisions or if the canadian courts refuse to enforce grace's final plan in the canadian courts, and if in addition grace is unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify the company and its subsidiaries in these cases, then the company could be required to pay substantial damages, which the company cannot estimate at this time and which could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. for further information concerning these matters, see note 16, "commitments and contingencies," of the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which is contained in item 8 of part ii of this annual report on form 10-k, under "asbestos settlement and related costs," "cryovac transaction," and "contingencies related to the cryovac transaction." raw materials and energy raw material pricing, availability and allocation by suppliers as well as other energy-related costs may negatively impact the company's results of operations, including its profit margins. during 2005, petrochemical-based raw material and other energy-related costs escalated as a result of strong market demand, exacerbated by the hurricanes in the gulf coast of the united states. this negatively impacted the company's profit margins. natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers in the future. that could lead to increased prices for the company's raw materials, curtailment of supplies and allocation of raw materials by the company's suppliers, which could reduce revenues and profit margins and harm relations with its customers, and which could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. 9 animal and food-related health issues the effects of animal and food-related health issues such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy, also known as "mad cow" disease, foot-and-mouth disease and avian influenza or "bird-flu," as well as other health issues affecting the food industry, may lead to decreased revenues for the company. the company manufactures and sells food packaging products, among other products. various health issues affecting the food industry have in the past and may in the future have a negative effect on the sales of food packaging products. outbreaks of animal diseases such as mad cow or foot-and-mouth disease, for example, may lead governments to restrict exports and imports of potentially affected animals and food products, leading to decreased demand for the company's products and possibly also to the culling or slaughter of significant numbers of the animal population otherwise intended for food supply. also, consumers may change their eating habits as a result of perceived problems with certain types of food. these restrictions and changes may lead to reduced sales of food packaging products by the company, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. global operations the global nature of the company's operations in the united states and in fifty foreign countries exposes it to numerous risks that could materially adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. the company operates in the united states and in 50 other countries, and its products are distributed in those countries as well as in other parts of the world. the company continues to expand its global presence as net sales outside the united states in 2005 made up approximately 52% of the company's total net sales. additionally the company has 75 manufacturing facilities and approximately 9,500 employees located outside the united states. as a result of its global operations, the company is exposed to economic, political, business and market conditions in the geographic areas in which it conducts business. changes in domestic or foreign laws, rules or regulations, or governmental or agency actions, can negatively affect the company's ability to carry on its business. governments may impose restrictive or protective import/export requirements as well as other trade measures that may have a negative impact on the company. some of the countries in which the company's subsidiaries operate have significantly different laws on the enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights. as a global entity, the company may also have greater exposure to the acts and effects of war or terrorism. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. the company may use financial instruments from time to time to manage exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, which use exposes the company to counterparty credit risk for nonperformance. additionally, some of the company's subsidiaries may operate in countries that have highly inflationary economies. global manufacturing strategy the company will begin the first phase of a new global manufacturing strategy. while too soon to reasonably estimate, the costs of the global manufacturing strategy could exceed the benefits if market forces or other outside influences negatively impact the execution and fulfillment of the strategy. the company has announced that it will begin the first phase of a new global manufacturing strategy. this strategy would include an expansion of the company's global production capabilities in developing markets around the world, as well as a realignment of its existing production into manufacturing centers of excellence. the goal of this multi-year program is to further improve the company's operating efficiencies, lower its overall cost structure and implement new technologies more 10 effectively. there are risks inherent in the undertaking of such a program, including the stability and sustainability of developing markets, shifts in customer preferences, competitive forces and technologies, cost overruns and unanticipated consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. reliance on subsidiaries the company's subsidiaries hold substantially all of its assets and liabilities and conduct substantially all of its operations, and as a result the company relies on distributions or advances from its subsidiaries. the company conducts substantially all of its business through two direct wholly-owned subsidiaries, cryovac, inc. and sealed air corporation (us). these two subsidiaries directly and indirectly own substantially all of the assets of the company's business and conduct operations themselves and through other subsidiaries around the globe. therefore, the company depends on distributions or advances from its subsidiaries to meet its debt service and other obligations and to pay dividends with respect to shares of its common stock. contractual provisions, laws or regulations to which the company or any of its subsidiaries may become subject, as well its subsidiaries' financial condition and operating requirements, may reduce funds available for service of its indebtedness, dividends, and general corporate purposes. volatility of stock price, volume sales and large holdings the price of the company's common stock historically has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, which may make it difficult for investors to resell the common stock, and the sale of substantial amounts of the company's common stock could adversely affect the price of the common stock. one shareholder has been identified as having sole voting and dispositive power with respect to 29,196,437 shares, or approximately 35.87%, of the company's common stock, and another shareholder has been identified as having sole dispositive power with respect to 8,902,500 shares, or approximately 10.9%, of the company's common stock. the market price of the company's common stock historically has experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations similar to those experienced by the broader stock market in recent years. in addition, the company's announcements of its quarterly operating results, future developments relating to the w. r. grace bankruptcy, additional asbestos or other litigation against the company, the effects of animal and food-related health issues, spikes in raw material and energy-related costs, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting the company, its affiliates or its competitors could cause the market price of the common stock to fluctuate substantially. in addition, the sale of substantial amounts of the company's common stock could adversely affect its price. according to a schedule 13g/a filed with the securities and exchange commission, or sec, dated as of december 31, 2005, davis selected advisers, l.p. reported sole voting and investment power with respect to 29,196,437 shares, or approximately 35.87%, of the outstanding shares of the company's common stock, and according to a schedule 13g/a filed with the sec, dated as of february 6, 2006, capital research and management company reported sole dispositive power with respect to 8,902,500 shares, or approximately 10.9%, of the company's outstanding common stock. in addition, as of december 31, 2005, 2,403,903 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under the company's contingent stock plan and directors' stock plan, and options to purchase 89,761 shares of the common stock were outstanding, all of which options were exercisable. issuance of such reserved shares would cause dilution of stock holdings. moreover, as of december 31, 2005, nine million shares of the company's common stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to the settlement of the asbestos litigation upon the effectiveness of a plan of reorganization in the bankruptcy of w. r. grace. the sale 11 or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of the company's common stock in the public market could adversely affect the price of the common stock. while the schedules 13g/a filed by davis selected advisers and capital research and management indicate that the referenced shares of the company's common stock were not acquired for the purpose of changing or influencing the control of the company, if either stockholder were to change its purpose of holding the company's common stock from investment to attempting to influence the management of the company, these concentrations of the company's common stock could potentially negatively impact the company and the price of its common stock. cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements some of the company's statements in this report, in documents incorporated by reference into this report and in the company's future oral and written statements, may be forward-looking. these statements reflect the company's beliefs and expectations as to future events and trends affecting the company's business, its financial condition and its results of operations. these forward-looking statements are based upon the company's current expectations concerning future events and discuss, among other things, anticipated future performance and future business plans. forward-looking statements are identified by such words and phrases as "anticipates," "believes," "could be," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "plans to," "will" and similar expressions. forward-looking statements are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside the control of the company, which could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements. in addition to the most significant risk factors described above, the following are important factors that the company believes could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the company's forward-looking statements: legal and environmental proceedings, claims and matters involving the company; factors affecting the customers, industries and markets that use the company's packaging materials and systems; competitive factors; changes in the company's relationships with customers and suppliers; changes in tax rates, laws and regulations; changes in interest rates, credit availability and ratings; the company's ability to hire, develop and retain talented employees worldwide; the company's development and commercialization of successful new products; the company's accomplishments in entering new markets and acquiring and integrating new businesses; the company's access to financing and other sources of capital; the costs and success of the company's key information systems projects; disruptions to data or voice networks; the magnitude and timing of the company's capital expenditures and the ultimate value generated from those expenditures; the costs and results of any exit and disposal activities and restructuring programs that the company may undertake; the company's working capital management proficiency; 12 the effect on the company of new pronouncements by regulatory and accounting authorities; natural disasters, health crises, epidemics and pandemics; and the effects of proposed federal asbestos legislation, if enacted. except as required by the federal securities laws, the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices, which may adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. the company seeks to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rates from time to time, the company may use interest rate swaps, collars or options to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. the company's interest rate swaps are described in note 11, "derivatives and hedging activities," of the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which is contained in item 8 of part ii of this annual report on form 10-k. under the terms of the company's outstanding interest rate swap agreements in each year, the company received interest at a fixed rate and paid interest at variable rates that were based on six-month london interbank offered rate, or libor. as a result, under the terms of the outstanding interest rate swap agreements in each year, interest expense increased $1.6 million, decreased $6.2 million and decreased $4.2 million for the years ended december 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, due to changes in six-month libor. at december 31, 2005 and 2004, the company had no collars or options outstanding. at december 31, 2005 and 2004, the carrying value of the company's total debt, which includes the impact of outstanding interest rate swaps, was $2,076.2 million and $2,111.6 million, respectively. the company's fixed rate debt at december 31, 2005 and 2004, including the impact of interest rate swaps, was $1,767.7 million and $1,800.5 million, respectively. the fair value of the company's fixed rate debt varies with changes in interest rates. generally, the fair value of fixed rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the estimated fair value of the company's total debt, including the impact of outstanding interest rate swaps, was $2,135.7 million at december 31, 2005 compared with $2,231.6 million at december 31, 2004. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would result in an increase in the fair value of the total debt balance at december 31, 2005 of $73.4 million. these changes in the fair value of the company's fixed rate debt do not alter the company's obligations to repay the outstanding principal amount of such debt. foreign exchange rates the company uses foreign currency forward contracts to fix the amount payable on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. the terms of these instruments are generally twelve months or less. at december 31, 2005 and 2004, the company had foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of approximately $309.3 million and $342.3 million, respectively. the estimated fair values of these contracts, which represent the estimated net payments that would be paid or received by the company in the event of termination of these contracts based on the then current foreign exchange rates, was a net receivable at december 31, 2005 of $0.6 million and zero at december 31, 2004. a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates at december 31, 2005 would have caused the company to pay approximately $20.8 million to terminate these contracts. the company may use other derivative instruments from time to time, such as foreign exchange options to manage exposure due to foreign exchange rates and interest rate and currency swaps related to access to additional sources of international financing. these instruments can potentially limit 44 foreign exchange exposure and limit or adjust interest rate exposure by swapping borrowings denominated in one currency for borrowings denominated in another currency. at december 31, 2005 and 2004, the company had no foreign exchange options or interest rate and currency swap agreements outstanding. the company's outstanding debt is generally denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing subsidiary. the amount of outstanding debt denominated in a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar was $262.9 million and $292.0 million at december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. the company believes that this enables it to better match operating cash flows with debt service requirements and to better match the currency of assets and liabilities. commodities the company uses various commodity raw materials such as plastic resins and energy products such as electric power and natural gas in conjunction with its manufacturing processes. generally, the company acquires these components at market prices and does not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. moreover, the company's supply chain team seeks to maintain appropriate levels of commodity raw material inventories thus minimizing the expense and risks of carrying excess inventories. the company does not typically purchase substantial quantities in advance of production requirements. as a result, the company is exposed to market risks related to changes in commodity prices of these components. 45risk factors 8 cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements 11 risk factors introduction investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. these are the most significant factors that make investing in the company risky; however, they are not the only factors that should be considered in making an investment decision. this annual report on form 10-k also contains and may incorporate by reference from the company's proxy statement for its 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, or from exhibits, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. see the "cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements" below. the company's actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including the risks faced by the company described below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k or in documents incorporated by reference in this report. the company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. the trading price of the company's securities could decline due to any of these risks, and investors in the company's securities may lose all or part of their investment. asbestos litigation and related litigation if the settlement of the asbestos-related claims that the company has agreed to is not implemented, the company will not be released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against it arising from a 1998 transaction with w. r. grace &amp; co. further, the company is a defendant in a lawsuit seeking class action status concerning the company's public disclosures regarding these asbestos-related claims. the company is also a defendant in a number of asbestos-related actions in canada arising from grace's activities in canada prior to 1998. on november 27, 2002, the company reached an agreement in principle with the official committee of asbestos personal injury claimants and the official committee of asbestos property damage claimants appointed to represent asbestos claimants in the w. r. grace &amp; co. bankruptcy case to resolve all current and future asbestos-related claims made against the company and its affiliates. the settlement will also resolve the fraudulent transfer claims and successor liability claims, as well as indemnification claims by fresenius medical care holdings, inc. and affiliated companies in connection with the cryovac transaction. the cryovac transaction was a multi-step transaction, completed on march 31, 1998, which brought the cryovac packaging business and the former sealed air corporation's business under the common ownership of the company. the parties to the agreement in principle signed a definitive settlement agreement as of november 10, 2003 consistent with the terms of the agreement in principle. on june 27, 2005, the u.s. bankruptcy court for the district of delaware, where the grace bankruptcy case is pending, signed an order approving the definitive settlement agreement. although grace is not a party to the settlement agreement, under the terms of the order, grace is directed to comply with the settlement agreement subject to limited exceptions. if the settlement agreement does not become effective, either because grace fails to emerge from bankruptcy or because grace does not emerge from bankruptcy with a plan of reorganization that is 8 consistent with the terms of the settlement agreement, then the company will not be released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against the company and its affiliates noted above, and all of these claims would remain pending and would have to be resolved through other means, such as through agreement on alternative settlement terms or trials. in that case, the company could face liabilities that are significantly different from its obligations under the settlement agreement. the company cannot estimate at this time what those differences or their magnitude may be. in the event these liabilities are materially larger than the current existing obligations, they could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. although grace filed a proposed plan of reorganization with the bankruptcy court in january 2005 (the "grace plan"), and the official committee of asbestos personal injury claimants and the future claimants' representative filed a different proposed plan of reorganization with the bankruptcy court in november 2007 (the "claimants' plan"), the company cannot predict whether or when any final plan of reorganization will be confirmed by the bankruptcy court or become effective. furthermore, assuming that a final plan of reorganization (whether the grace plan, the claimants' plan, or any other plan of reorganization that may be subsequently filed with the bankruptcy court) is confirmed by the bankruptcy court and does become effective, the company cannot predict whether the final plan will be consistent with the terms of the settlement agreement. the company is a defendant in the case of louisiana municipal police employees retirement system v. hickey, et al. (case no. 03-cv-4372) in the u.s. district court for the district of new jersey (newark). this lawsuit seeks class action status on behalf of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired securities of the company during the period from march 27, 2000 through july 30, 2002. the lawsuit named the company and five current and former officers and directors of the company as defendants. one of these individuals and the company remain as defendants after a partial grant of the defendants' motion to dismiss the action. the plaintiff's principal allegations against the defendants are that during the above period the defendants materially misled the investing public, artificially inflated the price of the company's common stock by publicly issuing false and misleading statements and violated u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, or gaap, by failing to properly account and accrue for the company's contingent liability for asbestos claims arising from past operations of grace. the plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. if the court determines that the company is liable in this case, the company could be required to pay substantial damages, which the company cannot estimate at this time and which could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. since november 2004, the company and specified subsidiaries have been named as defendants in a number of cases, including a number of putative class actions, brought in canada as a result of grace's alleged marketing, manufacturing or distributing of asbestos or asbestos-containing products in canada prior to the cryovac transaction. grace has agreed to defend and indemnify the company and its subsidiaries in these cases. the canadian cases are currently stayed, and the grace plan provides for payment of these claims. however, if a final plan of reorganization that is confirmed and becomes effective does not make the same provisions or if the canadian courts refuse to enforce the final plan of reorganization in the canadian courts, and if in addition grace is unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify the company and its subsidiaries in these cases, then the company could be required to pay substantial damages, which the company cannot estimate at this time and which could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. for further information concerning these matters, see note 16, "commitments and contingencies," of notes to consolidated financial statements, which is contained in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k, under "asbestos settlement and related costs," "cryovac transaction," and "contingencies related to the cryovac transaction." raw materials and energy raw material pricing, availability and allocation by suppliers as well as other energy-related costs may negatively impact the company's results of operations, including its profit margins. the company uses petrochemical-based raw materials to manufacture many of its products. during the second half of 2007, petrochemical-based raw material and other energy-related costs increased, with oil futures setting a record high. this negatively impacted the company's profit margins. continued increases in market demand for petrochemical-based raw materials and energy could increase costs for the company. 9 natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers in the future. these factors could lead to increased prices for the company's raw materials, curtailment of supplies and allocation of raw materials by the company's suppliers, which could reduce revenues and profit margins and harm relations with the company's customers and which could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. animal and food-related health issues the effects of animal and food-related health issues such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy, also known as "mad cow" disease, foot-and-mouth disease and avian influenza or "bird-flu," as well as other health issues affecting the food industry, may lead to decreased revenues for the company. the company manufactures and sells food packaging and food solutions products, among other products. various health issues affecting the food industry have in the past and may in the future have a negative effect on the sales of food packaging and food solutions products. in recent years, additional cases of mad cow disease were confirmed and incidents of bird flu have continued to surface in various countries. outbreaks of animal diseases such as mad cow or foot-and-mouth disease, for example, may lead governments to restrict exports and imports of potentially affected animals and food products, leading to decreased demand for the company's products and possibly also to the culling or slaughter of significant numbers of the animal population otherwise intended for food supply. also, consumers may change their eating habits as a result of perceived problems with certain types of food. these factors may lead to reduced sales of food packaging and food solutions products by the company, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. global operations and economic conditions the global nature of the company's operations in the united states and in 50 foreign countries exposes it to numerous risks that could materially adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. the company operates in the united states and in 50 other countries, and its products are distributed in those countries as well as in other parts of the world. the company continues to expand its global presence as net sales outside the united states in 2007 were approximately 55% of the company's total net sales. additionally the company has over 70 manufacturing facilities and approximately 10,200 employees located outside the united states. as a result of its global operations, the company is exposed to economic, political, business and market conditions in the geographic areas in which it conducts business. changes in domestic or foreign laws, rules or regulations, or governmental or agency actions including those of tax authorities can negatively affect the company's ability to carry on its business. governments may impose restrictive or protective import/export requirements as well as other trade measures that may have a negative impact on the company. some of the countries in which the company's subsidiaries operate have significantly different approaches to the enforcement of intellectual property, contract and other legal rights. as a global entity, the company may also have greater exposure to the acts and effects of war or terrorism. no non-u.s. country had net sales in excess of 10% of consolidated net sales at december 31, 2007. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. the company may use financial instruments from time to time to manage exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, which use exposes the company to counterparty credit risk for nonperformance. additionally, some of the company's subsidiaries may operate in countries that have highly inflationary economies. global manufacturing strategy the company commenced its global manufacturing strategy in 2006. the costs of the global manufacturing strategy could exceed the benefits if market forces or other factors negatively impact the execution and fulfillment of the strategy. the company's multi-year global manufacturing strategy includes an expansion of the company's global production capabilities in developing regions, as well as a realignment of its existing production into manufacturing centers of excellence. the goal of this multi-year program is to expand capacity in growing markets in developing countries, further improve the company's operating efficiencies, lower its overall cost 10 structure and implement new technologies more effectively. there are risks inherent in the undertaking of such a program, including the stability and sustainability of developing markets, shifts in customer preferences, competitive forces and technologies, cost overruns and unanticipated consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. reliance on subsidiaries the company's subsidiaries hold substantially all of its assets and conduct substantially all of its operations, and as a result the company relies on distributions or advances from its subsidiaries. the company conducts substantially all of its business through two direct wholly-owned subsidiaries, cryovac, inc. and sealed air corporation (us). these two subsidiaries directly and indirectly own substantially all of the assets of the company's business and conduct operations themselves and through other subsidiaries around the globe. therefore, the company depends on distributions or advances from its subsidiaries to meet its debt service and other obligations and to pay dividends with respect to shares of its common stock. contractual provisions, laws or regulations to which the company or any of its subsidiaries may become subject, as well its subsidiaries' financial condition and operating requirements, may reduce funds available for service of its indebtedness, dividends, and general corporate purposes. volatility of stock price, volume sales and large holdings the price of the company's common stock has on occasion experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. the sale of substantial amounts of the company's common stock could adversely affect the price of the common stock. one stockholder has beneficial ownership of approximately 36% of the company's common shares. the market price of the company's common stock historically has experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations similar to those experienced by the broader stock market in recent years. in addition, the company's announcements of its quarterly operating results, future developments relating to the w. r. grace bankruptcy, additional asbestos or other litigation against the company, the effects of animal and food-related health issues, spikes in raw material and energy-related costs, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting the company, its affiliates or its competitors could cause the market price of the common stock to fluctuate substantially. the sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of the company's common stock in the public market could adversely affect the price of the common stock. according to a schedule 13g/a filed with the securities and exchange commission, or sec, dated as of february 12, 2008, davis selected advisers, l.p. reported beneficial ownership of 58,280,212 shares, or approximately 36%, of the outstanding shares of the company's common stock. additionally, as of december 31, 2007, 18 million shares of the company's common stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to the settlement of the asbestos litigation upon the effectiveness of a plan of reorganization in the bankruptcy of w. r. grace. while the schedule 13g/a filed by davis selected advisers indicates that the referenced shares of the company's common stock were not acquired for the purpose of changing or influencing the control of the company, if that stockholder were to change its purpose for holding the company's common stock from investment to attempting to change or influence the management of the company, this concentration of the company's common stock could potentially affect the company and the price of its common stock. cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements some of the company's statements in this report, in documents incorporated by reference into this report and in the company's future oral and written statements, may be forward-looking. these statements reflect the company's beliefs and expectations as to future events and trends affecting the company's business, its financial condition and its results of operations. these forward-looking statements are based upon the company's current expectations concerning future events and discuss, among other things, anticipated future performance and future business plans. forward-looking statements are identified by such words and phrases as "anticipates," "believes," "could be," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "plans to," "will" and similar expressions. forward-looking statements are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties, 11 many of which are outside the control of the company that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements. in addition to the most significant risk factors described above, the following are important factors that the company believes could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the company's forward-looking statements: legal and environmental proceedings, claims and matters involving the company; factors affecting the customers, industries and markets that use the company's packaging materials and systems, including trends affecting the production, packaging and consumption of meat and poultry; competitive factors; changes in the company's relationships with customers and suppliers; changes in tax rates, laws and regulations; changes in interest rates, credit availability and ratings; the company's ability to hire, develop and retain talented employees worldwide; the company's development and commercialization of successful new products; the company's accomplishments in entering new markets and acquiring and integrating new businesses; the company's access to financing and other sources of capital; the costs and success of the company's key information systems projects; disruptions to data or voice networks; the magnitude and timing of the company's capital expenditures and the ultimate value generated from those expenditures; the costs and results of any exit and disposal activities and restructuring programs that the company may undertake; the company's working capital management proficiency; the effect on the company of new pronouncements by regulatory and accounting authorities; and natural disasters, health crises, epidemics and pandemics. except as required by the federal securities laws, the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk." shareholders' equity the company's shareholders' equity was $2,019.6 million at december 31, 2007 and $1,654.8 million at december 31, 2006. shareholders' equity increased $364.8 million, or 22.0%, in 2007 compared with 2006 primarily due to the following: net earnings of $353.0 million in 2007; and positive foreign currency translation of $66.7 million in 2007; partially offset by; dividends paid on common stock of $64.6 million in 2007. recently issued statements of financial accounting standards, accounting guidance and disclosure requirements the company is subject to numerous recently issued statements of financial accounting standards, accounting guidance and disclosure requirements. note 21, "recent accounting pronouncements," of notes to consolidated financial statements, which is contained in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k, describes these new accounting pronouncements and the company's application of the provisions of staff accounting bulletin no. 108 and is incorporated herein by reference. critical accounting policies and estimates the company's discussion and analysis of its consolidated financial condition and results of operations are based upon its consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap. the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. estimates and assumptions are evaluated on an ongoing basis and are based on all available evidence, including historical experience and other factors believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. to derive these estimates and assumptions, management draws from those available sources that can best contribute to its efforts. these sources include the company's officers and other employees, outside 44 consultants and legal counsel, experts and actuaries. in addition, the company uses internally generated reports and statistics, such as aging of accounts receivable, as well as outside sources such as government statistics, industry reports and third-party research studies. the results of these estimates and assumptions may form the basis of the carrying value of assets and liabilities and may not be readily apparent from other sources. actual results may differ from estimates under conditions and circumstances different from those assumed, and any such differences may be material to the company's consolidated financial statements. the company believes the following accounting policies are critical to its business operations and the understanding of its consolidated results of operations and affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. the critical accounting policies discussed below should be read together with the company's significant accounting policies set forth in note 2, "summary of significant accounting policies," of notes to consolidated financial statements. accounts receivable and allowance for doubtful accounts in the normal course of business, the company extends credit to its customers if they satisfy pre-defined credit criteria. the company maintains an accounts receivable allowance for estimated losses resulting from the failure of its customers to make required payments. an additional allowance may be required if the financial condition of the company's customers deteriorates. the allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that management assesses to be appropriate to absorb estimated losses in the accounts receivable portfolio. the allowance for doubtful accounts is reviewed quarterly, and changes to the allowance are made through the provision for bad debts, which is included in marketing, administrative and development expenses on the company's consolidated statements of operations. these changes may reflect changes in economic, business and market conditions. the allowance is increased by the provision for bad debts and decreased by the amount of charge-offs, net of recoveries. the provision for bad debts charged against operating results is based on several factors including, but not limited to, a regular assessment of the collectibility of specific customer balances, the length of time a receivable is past due and the company's historical experience with its customers. in circumstances where a specific customer's inability to meet its financial obligations is known, the company records a specific provision for bad debt against amounts due thereby reducing the receivable to the amount the company reasonably assesses will be collected. if circumstances change, such as higher than expected defaults or an unexpected material adverse change in a major customer's ability to pay, the company's estimates of recoverability could be reduced by a material amount. commitments and contingencies litigation on an ongoing basis, the company assesses the potential liabilities and costs related to any lawsuits or claims brought against it. the company accrues a liability when it believes a loss is probable and when the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. litigation proceedings are evaluated on a case-by-case basis considering the available information, including that received from internal and outside legal counsel, to assess potential outcomes. while it is typically very difficult to determine the timing and ultimate outcome of these actions, the company uses its best judgment to determine if it is probable that it will incur an expense related to the settlement or final adjudication of these matters and whether a reasonable estimation of the probable loss, if any, can be made. in assessing probable losses, the company considers insurance recoveries, if any. the company expenses legal costs, including those legal costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency, as incurred. the company has in the past adjusted existing accruals as proceedings have continued, been settled or otherwise provided further information on which the company could review the likelihood of outflows of resources and their measurability, and the company expects to do so in future periods. due to the inherent uncertainties related to the eventual outcome of litigation and potential insurance recovery, it is possible that disputed matters may be resolved for amounts materially different from any provisions or disclosures that the company has previously made. impairment of long-lived assets the determination of the value of long-lived assets requires management to make assumptions and estimates that affect the company's consolidated financial statements. the company periodically reviews long-lived assets, other than goodwill, for impairment whenever there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. goodwill, in accordance with sfas no. 142, "goodwill and other intangibles," is reviewed for possible impairment at least annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. a review of goodwill may be initiated prior to conducting the annual analysis if there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired. 45 assumptions and estimates used in the determination of impairment losses, such as future cash flows, which are based on operational performance, market conditions, and other factors, and disposition costs, may affect the carrying value of long-lived assets and possible impairment expense in the company's consolidated financial statements. if assumptions and estimates change in the future, the company may be required to record an impairment charge. self-insurance the company retains the obligation for specified claims and losses related to property, casualty, workers' compensation and employee benefit claims. the company accrues for outstanding reported claims and claims that have been incurred but not reported based upon management's estimates of the aggregate liability for retained losses using historical experience, insurance company estimates and the estimated trends in claim values. the company's estimates include management's and independent insurance companies' assumptions regarding economic conditions, the frequency and severity of claims and claim development patterns and settlement practices. these estimates and assumptions are monitored and evaluated on a periodic basis by management and are adjusted when warranted by changing circumstances. although management believes it has the ability to adequately project and record estimated claim payments, actual results could differ significantly from the recorded liabilities. pensions the company maintains a non-contributory profit sharing plan and a contributory thrift and retirement savings plan in which most u.s. employees of the company are eligible to participate. for a limited number of its u.s. employees and for some of its international employees, the company maintains defined benefit pension plans. the company accounts for these pension plans in accordance with sfas no. 158, "employers' accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans." under this accounting standard, the company makes assumptions regarding the valuation of projected benefit obligations and the performance of plan assets. the projected benefit obligation and the net periodic benefit cost are based on third-party actuarial assumptions and estimates that are reviewed by management on an annual basis. the principal assumptions concern the discount rate used to measure the projected benefit obligation, the expected future rate of return on plan assets and the expected rate of future compensation increases. the company revises these assumptions based on an annual evaluation of long-term trends and market conditions that may have an impact on the cost of providing retirement benefits. in determining the discount rate, the company utilizes market conditions and other data sources management considers reasonable based upon the profile of the remaining service life of eligible employees. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is determined by taking into consideration the weighted-average expected return on the company's asset allocation, asset return data, historical return data, and the current economic environment. the company believes these considerations provide the basis for reasonable assumptions of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. the rate of compensation increase is based on the company's long-term plans for such increases. the measurement date used to determine the benefit obligation and plan assets is december 31. at december 31, 2007, the projected benefit obligation for u.s. pension plans was $44.5 million and the net periodic benefit cost for the year ended december 31, 2007 was $2.9 million. at december 31, 2007, the projected benefit obligation for international pension plans was $306.6 million and the net periodic benefit cost for the year ended december 31, 2007 was $12.1 million. in general, material changes to the principal assumptions could have a material impact on the costs and liabilities recorded under sfas no. 158. a 25 basis point change in the assumed discount rate and a 100 basis point change in the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets would have resulted in the following increases (decreases) on the projected benefit obligation at december 31, 2007 and the expected net periodic benefit cost for the year ended december 31, 2008 (in millions). 25 basis point increase 25 basis point decrease united states discount rate effect on projected benefit obligation $ (1.5 ) $ 1.5 effect on net periodic benefit cost (0.2 ) 0.2 46 100 basis point increase 100 basis point decrease return on assets effect on net periodic benefit cost $ (0.4 ) $ 0.4 25 basis point increase 25 basis point decrease international discount rate effect on projected benefit obligation $ (18.9 ) $ 20.9 effect on net periodic benefit cost (1.2 ) 1.4 100 basis point increase 100 basis point decrease return on assets effect on net periodic benefit cost $ (2.4 ) $ 2.4 income taxes estimates and judgments are required in the calculation of tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of deferred tax assets. the company's deferred tax assets arise from net deductible temporary differences and tax benefit carry forwards. the company evaluates whether its taxable earnings during the periods when the temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets become deductible or when tax benefit carry forwards may be utilized should be sufficient to realize the related future income tax benefits. for those jurisdictions where the expiration dates of tax benefit carry forwards or the projected taxable earnings indicate that realization is not likely, the company provides a valuation allowance. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, the company estimates future taxable earnings, with consideration for the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies and the realizability of tax benefit carry forwards and past operating results, to determine which deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized in the future. changes to tax laws, statutory tax rates and future taxable earnings can have an impact on valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets. in the event that actual results differ from these estimates in future periods, the company may need to adjust the valuation allowance, which could have a material impact on the company's consolidated financial statements. in calculating its worldwide provision for income taxes, the company also evaluates its tax positions for years where the statutes of limitations have not expired. based on this review, the company may establish reserves for additional taxes and interest that could be assessed upon examination by relevant tax authorities. the company adjusts these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, including the results of tax audits and changes in tax law. if the payment of additional taxes and interest ultimately proves unnecessary, the reversal of the reserves would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when the company determines the reserves are no longer necessary. if an estimate of tax reserves proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to income tax provision would result. these adjustments to reserves and related expenses could materially affect the company's consolidated financial statements. 47 on january 1, 2007, the company adopted the provisions of fin 48. under fin 48, the company recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. the tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon settlement with tax authorities. see note 15, "income taxes," of notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussion. educational donation during the second quarter of 2006, the company donated $1.5 million to the harvard business school in partial funding of a professorship in the name of t. j. dermot dunphy. mr. dunphy, a director of the company, was chief executive officer of the company from march 1971 until his retirement in february 2000. he received a master's degree in business administration from the school in 1956. non-gaap information the company's management from time to time presents information that does not conform to u.s. gaap, including changes in net sales excluding the effects of foreign currency translation, the sale of a small product line and certain sales related to acquisitions. the company's management uses changes in net sales excluding the effects of foreign currency translation, the sale of a minor product line and certain sales related to acquisitions to measure the performance of the company's operations and to aid in the comparison of results. thus, management believes that this information may be useful to investors. such measures are also among the criteria upon which performance-based compensation may be determined. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices, which may adversely affect its consolidated financial condition and results of operations. the company seeks to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rates from time to time, the company may use interest rate swaps, collars or options to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. the company's interest rate swaps are described in note 12, "derivatives and hedging activities," of notes to consolidated financial statements, which is contained in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k and in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps" contained in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, the company had no collars or options outstanding. the carrying value of the company's total debt, which includes the impact of outstanding interest rate swaps, was $1,871.8 million at december 31, 2007 and $1,852.3 million at december 31, 2006. the company's fixed rate debt, including the impact of interest rate swaps, was $1,526.1 million at december 31, 2007 and $1,531.4 million at december 31, 2006. the fair value of the company's fixed rate debt varies with changes in interest rates. generally, the fair value of fixed rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the estimated fair value of the company's total debt, including the impact of outstanding interest rate swaps, was $1,818.4 million at december 31, 2007 compared with $1,885.9 million at december 31, 2006. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would result in an increase of $77.0 million in the fair value of the total debt balance at december 31, 2007. these changes in the fair value of the company's fixed rate debt do not alter the company's obligations to repay the outstanding principal amount of such debt. 48 foreign exchange rates the company uses foreign currency forward contracts to fix the amount payable on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates at december 31, 2007 would have caused the company to pay approximately $20.1 million to terminate these contracts. the company's foreign currency forward contracts are described in note 12, "derivatives and hedging activities," of notes to consolidated financial statements, which is contained in part ii, item 8 and in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources derivative financial instruments foreign currency forward contracts" contained in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k. the company may use other derivative instruments from time to time, such as foreign exchange options to manage exposure due to foreign exchange rates and interest rate and currency swaps related to access to additional sources of international financing. these instruments can potentially limit foreign exchange exposure and limit or adjust interest rate exposure by swapping borrowings denominated in one currency for borrowings denominated in another currency. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, the company had no foreign exchange options or interest rate and currency swap agreements outstanding. the company's outstanding debt is generally denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing subsidiary. the company believes that this enables it to better match operating cash flows with debt service requirements and to better match the currency of assets and liabilities. the amount of outstanding debt denominated in a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar was $49.2 million at december 31, 2007 and $34.4 million at december 31, 2006. investments the company's available-for-sale investments are exposed to market risk related to changes in conditions in the u.s. financial markets. as a result of liquidity conditions affecting capital markets, particularly in the u.s., specifically for asset-backed securities, every auction for the auction rate securities held by the company over the last several months of 2007 failed. the company believes that this is indicative of the severe pressure from the sub-prime lending collapse that began in 2007, rather than specific concerns with respect to the issuers of the auction rate securities or the securities themselves. the company's available-for-sale investments are described in note 5, "available-for-sale investments," of notes to consolidated financial statements. commodities the company uses various commodity raw materials such as plastic resins and energy products such as electric power and natural gas in conjunction with its manufacturing processes. generally, the company acquires these components at market prices and does not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. moreover, the company's supply chain team seeks to maintain appropriate levels of commodity raw material inventories thus minimizing the expense and risks of carrying excess inventories. the company does not typically purchase substantial quantities in advance of production requirements. as a result, the company is exposed to market risks related to changes in commodity prices of these components. 49risk factors 8 cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements 14 risk factors of this annual report on form 10-k, which information is incorporated herein by reference. financial information about geographic areas setting forth net sales and total long-lived assets for each of the years in the three-year period ended december 31, 2008 appears in note 3, "business segment information," of notes to consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k, which information is incorporated herein by reference. the company maintains programs to comply with the various laws, rules and regulations related to the protection of the environment that it may be subject to in the many countries in which it operates. see "environmental matters," below. marketing, distribution and customers at december 31, 2008, the company employed approximately 2,600 sales, marketing and customer service personnel throughout the world who sell and market the company's products to and through a large number of distributors, fabricators, converters, e-commerce and mail order fulfillment firms, and contract packaging firms as well as directly to end users such as food processors, food service businesses, supermarket retailers, pharmaceutical companies, medical device manufacturers and other manufacturers. in some instances the company offers products that are fabricated by other manufacturers, such as tray products and containers and equipment. to support its food packaging, food solutions and new ventures customers, the company operates two food science laboratories that assist customers in identifying the appropriate packaging materials and systems to meet their needs. the company also offers customized graphic design services to its customers. to assist its marketing efforts for its protective packaging products and to provide specialized customer services, the company operates 35 package design and development laboratories worldwide within many of its facilities. these laboratories are staffed by professional packaging engineers and equipped with 5 table of contents drop-testing and other equipment used to develop and test cost-effective package designs to meet the particular protective packaging requirements of each customer. in many of its businesses, the company also provides field technical service to its customers. these services include system installation, repair and upgrade, operator training in the efficient use of packaging systems, qualification of various consumable and system combinations, and packaging line layout and design. the company has no material long-term contracts for the distribution of its products. in 2008, no customer or affiliated group of customers accounted for 10% or more of the company's consolidated net sales. although historically net sales of food packaging, food solutions and protective packaging products tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher in the fourth quarter, the company does not consider seasonality to be material to its consolidated business or to any reportable business segment. competition competition for most of the company's packaging products is based primarily on packaging performance characteristics, service and price. since competition is also based upon innovations in packaging technology, the company maintains ongoing research and development programs to enable it to maintain technological leadership. there are other companies producing competing products that are well established. there are other manufacturers of food packaging and food solutions products, some of which are companies offering similar products that operate across regions and others that operate in a single region or single country. competing manufacturers produce a wide variety of food packaging based on plastic, paper, metals and other materials. the company believes that it is one of the leading suppliers of (i) flexible food packaging materials and related systems in the principal geographic areas in which it offers those products, (ii) barrier trays for case-ready meat products in the principal geographic areas in which it offers those trays, and (iii) absorbent pads for food products to supermarkets and to meat and poultry processors in the united states. the company's protective packaging products compete with similar products made by other manufacturers and with a number of other packaging materials that customers use to provide protection against damage to their products during shipment and storage. among the competitive materials are various forms of paper packaging products, expanded plastics, corrugated die cuts, loose fill packaging materials, strapping, envelopes, reinforced bags, boxes and other containers, and various corrugated materials, as well as various types of molded foam plastics, fabricated foam plastics, mechanical shock mounts, and wood blocking and bracing systems. the company believes that it is one of the leading suppliers of air cellular cushioning materials containing a barrier layer, inflatable packaging, suspension and retention packaging, shrink films for industrial and commercial applications, protective mailers, polyethylene foam and polyurethane foam packaging systems in the principal geographic areas in which it sells these products. competition in specialty materials is focused on performance characteristics and price. competition for most of the company's medical applications products is based primarily on performance characteristics, service and price. technical design capability is an additional competitive factor for the rigid packaging offered by the medical applications business. raw materials the principal raw materials used in each of the company's reportable business segments are polyolefin and other petrochemical-based resins and films, and paper and wood pulp products. the company also purchases corrugated materials, cores for rolls of products such as films and bubble wrap&reg; brand cushioning, inks for printed materials, and blowing agents used in the expansion of foam packaging products. in addition, the company offers a wide variety of specialized packaging equipment, some of which it manufactures or has manufactured to its specifications, some of which it assembles and some of which it purchases from other suppliers. the raw materials for the company's products generally have been readily available on the open market and in most cases are available from several suppliers. however, the company has some sole-source suppliers, and the reduction in the availability of supplies could have a disproportionately negative impact on the company. natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers in the future. these factors could lead to increased prices for the company's raw materials, 6 table of contents curtailment of supplies and allocation of raw materials by the company's suppliers. some materials used in the company's packaging products are sourced from materials recycled in the company's manufacturing operations or obtained through participation in recycling programs. research and development activities the company maintains a continuing effort to develop new products and to improve its existing products and processes, including developing new packaging and non-packaging applications for its products. from time to time, the company also acquires and commercializes new packaging and other products or techniques developed by others. the company's research and development projects rely on its technical capabilities in the areas of food science, materials science, package design and equipment engineering. the company spent $85.6 million for company-sponsored research and development in 2008, compared with $90.8 million during 2007 and $78.2 million during 2006. patents and trademarks the company is the owner or licensee of a number of united states and foreign patents, patent applications, trademarks and trademark registrations that relate to many of its products, manufacturing processes and equipment. the company believes that its patents and trademarks collectively provide a competitive advantage. none of the company's reportable segments is dependent upon any single patent or trademark alone. rather, the company believes that its success depends primarily on its sales and service, marketing, engineering and manufacturing skills and on its ongoing research and development efforts. the company believes that the expiration or unenforceability of any of its patents, applications, licenses or trademark registrations would not be material to the company's business or consolidated financial position. environmental matters as a manufacturer, the company is subject to various laws, rules and regulations in the countries, jurisdictions and localities in which it operates covering the release of materials into the environment, regarding standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. the company reviews environmental laws and regulations pertaining to its operations and believes that compliance with current environmental laws and regulations has not had a material effect on the company's capital expenditures or consolidated financial position. in some jurisdictions in which the company's packaging products are sold or used, laws and regulations have been adopted or proposed that seek to regulate, among other things, recycled or reprocessed content and sale or disposal of packaging materials. in addition, customer demand continues to evolve for packaging materials that incorporate renewable materials or that are otherwise viewed as being "environmentally sound." the company's new ventures activities, described above, emphasize the development of packaging products from renewable resources. the company maintains programs designed to comply with these laws and regulations, to monitor their evolution, and to meet this customer demand. these issues can be a competitive advantage for the company given the inherent source reduction benefits of many of its processes and products. one advantage inherent in many of the company's products is that thin, lightweight packaging solutions reduce customer waste and transportation costs in comparison to available alternatives. the company continues to evaluate and implement new technologies in this area as they become available. the company also supports its customers' interests in eliminating waste by offering or participating in collection programs for some of the company's products or product packaging and for materials used in some of the company's products. when possible, materials collected through these programs are reprocessed and either reused in the company's protective packaging operations or offered to other manufacturers for use in other products. in addition, recent gains made in internal recycling programs have allowed the company to improve its net raw material yield, thus mitigating the impact of resin costs, while lowering solid waste disposal costs. employees as of december 31, 2008, the company had approximately 17,000 employees worldwide. approximately 6,700 of these employees were in the u.s., with approximately 400 of these covered by collective bargaining agreements. of the approximately 10,300 company employees who were outside the u.s., approximately 7,500 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. outside of the u.s., many of the covered employees 7 table of contents are represented by works councils or industrial boards, as is customary in the jurisdictions in which they are employed. the company believes that its employee relations are satisfactory. available information the company's internet address is www.sealedair.com. the company makes available, free of charge, on or through its web site at www.sealedair.com , its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, or the exchange act, as soon as reasonably practicable after the company electronically files these materials with, or furnishes them to, the securities and exchange commission, or the sec. item 1a. risk factors introduction investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. these are the most significant risk factors; however, they are not the only risk factors that should be considered in making an investment decision. this annual report on form 10-k also contains and may incorporate by reference from the company's proxy statement for its 2009 annual meeting of stockholders, or from exhibits, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. see the "cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements" below. the company's actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including the risks faced by the company described below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k or in documents incorporated by reference in this report. the company's business, consolidated financial position or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. the trading price of the company's securities could decline due to any of these risks, and investors in the company's securities may lose all or part of their investment. if the settlement of the asbestos-related claims that the company has agreed to (the "settlement agreement") is not implemented, the company will not be released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against it arising from a 1998 transaction with w. r. grace &amp; co. further, the company is a defendant in a lawsuit seeking class action status concerning the company's public disclosures regarding these asbestos-related claims. the company is also a defendant in a number of asbestos-related actions in canada arising from w. r grace &amp; co.'s activities in canada prior to the 1998 transaction. on november 27, 2002, the company reached an agreement in principle with the official committee of asbestos personal injury claimants (the "acc") and the official committee of asbestos property damage claimants appointed to represent asbestos claimants in the w. r. grace &amp; co. ("grace") bankruptcy case to resolve all current and future asbestos-related claims made against the company and its affiliates. the settlement agreement will also resolve the fraudulent transfer claims and successor liability claims, as well as indemnification claims by fresenius medical care holdings, inc. and affiliated companies in connection with the cryovac transaction. the cryovac transaction was a multi-step transaction, completed on march 31, 1998, which brought the cryovac packaging business and the former sealed air corporation's business under the common ownership of the company. the parties to the agreement in principle signed the definitive settlement agreement as of november 10, 2003 consistent with the terms of the agreement in principle. on june 27, 2005, the u.s. bankruptcy court for the district of delaware, where the grace bankruptcy case is pending, signed an order approving the definitive settlement agreement. although grace is not a party to the settlement agreement, under the terms of the order, grace is directed to comply with the settlement agreement subject to limited exceptions. if the settlement agreement does not become effective, either because grace fails to emerge from bankruptcy or because grace does not emerge from bankruptcy with a plan of reorganization that is consistent with the terms of the settlement agreement, then the company will not be released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against the company and its affiliates noted above, and all of these claims would remain pending and would have to be resolved through other means, such as through agreement on alternative settlement terms or trials. in that case, the company could face liabilities that are significantly different from its obligations under the settlement agreement. the company cannot estimate at this time what those differences or their magnitude may be. in the event these liabilities are materially larger than the current 8 table of contents existing obligations, they could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial position and results of operations. on september 19, 2008, grace, the acc, the asbestos pi future claimants' representative (the "fcr"), and the official committee of equity security holders (the "equity committee") filed, as co-proponents, a plan of reorganization (as filed from time to time, the "pi settlement plan") and several exhibits and associated documents, including a disclosure statement (as filed and amended from time to time, the "pi settlement disclosure statement"), with the bankruptcy court. amended versions of the pi settlement plan and the pi settlement disclosure statement have been filed with the bankruptcy court from time to time, with the most recent version having been filed on february 27, 2009. as filed, the pi settlement plan would provide for the establishment of two asbestos trusts under section 524(g) of the united states bankruptcy code to which present and future asbestos-related claims would be channeled. the pi settlement plan also contemplates that the terms of the company's definitive settlement agreement will be incorporated into the pi settlement plan and that the company will pay the amount contemplated by that agreement. the company is reviewing the pi settlement plan on an ongoing basis to verify that it complies with the settlement agreement. while confirmation hearings on the pi settlement plan are currently scheduled for june and september 2009 (with potential pre-trial conferences currently scheduled in july), the company does not know whether or when a final plan of reorganization will become effective or whether the final plan will be consistent with the terms of the company's definitive settlement agreement. the company is a defendant in the case of louisiana municipal police employees retirement system v. hickey, et al. (case no. 03-cv-4372) in the u.s. district court for the district of new jersey (newark). this lawsuit seeks class action status on behalf of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired securities of the company during the period from march 27, 2000 through july 30, 2002. the lawsuit named the company and five current and former officers and directors of the company as defendants. one of these individuals and the company remain as defendants after a partial grant of the defendants' motion to dismiss the action. the plaintiff's principal allegations against the defendants are that during the above period the defendants materially misled the investing public, artificially inflated the price of the company's common stock by publicly issuing false and misleading statements and violated u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, or u.s. gaap, by failing to properly account and accrue for the company's contingent liability for asbestos claims arising from past operations of grace. the plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. if the court determines that the company is liable in this case, the company could be required to pay substantial damages, which the company cannot estimate at this time and which could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial position and results of operations. since november 2004, the company and specified subsidiaries have been named as defendants in a number of cases, including a number of putative class actions, brought in canada as a result of grace's alleged marketing, manufacturing or distributing of asbestos or asbestos-containing products in canada prior to the cryovac transaction in 1998. grace has agreed to defend and indemnify the company and its subsidiaries in these cases. the canadian cases are currently stayed. a global settlement of these canadian claims to be funded by grace has been approved by the canadian court, and the pi settlement plan provides for payment of these claims. the global settlement of the canadian claims will, unless amended, become null and void if a confirmation order in the grace u.s. bankruptcy proceeding is not granted prior to october 31, 2009. if a final plan of reorganization that is confirmed and becomes effective does not provide for these claims or if the canadian courts refuse to enforce the final plan of reorganization in the canadian courts, and if in addition grace is unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify the company and its subsidiaries in these cases, then the company could be required to pay substantial damages, which the company cannot estimate at this time and which could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial position and results of operations. for further information concerning these matters, see note 16, "commitments and contingencies," of notes to consolidated financial statements under "settlement agreement and related costs," "cryovac transaction," and "contingencies related to the cryovac transaction." 9 table of contents weakened global economic conditions have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial position and results of operations. weakened global economic conditions can have an adverse impact on the company's business in the form of lower sales due to weakened demand, unfavorable changes in product price/mix, and lower profit margins. during periods of economic recession, there can be a heightened competition for sales and increased pressure to reduce selling prices. if the company loses significant sales volume or reduces its selling prices signficantly, then there could be a negative impact on the company's revenue, profitability and cash flows. also, reduced availability of credit may adversely affect the ability of some of the company's customers and suppliers to obtain funds for operations and capital expenditures. this could negatively impact the company's ability to obtain necessary supplies as well as its sales of materials and equipment to affected customers and could result in reduced collections of outstanding accounts receivable. the disruption and volatility of the financial and credit markets could affect external liquidity sources for the company. the company's principal sources of liquidity are accumulated cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flow from operations and amounts available under its existing lines of credit, including its revolving credit facility, the anz facility and its accounts receivable securitization program, as described below in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the company's 6.95% senior notes are due on may 15, 2009. furthermore, the company may be obligated to make the payment under the settlement agreement and related accrued interest in 2009, although there is no certainty that the payment will be due in 2009. on june 30, 2010, the holders of the company's 3% convertible senior notes have the option to require the company to repurchase those notes. these items are in addition to capital expenditures and other uses of cash that the company may incur. while the company projects that it should have sufficient liquidity to fund these obligations as well as its operating and investing cash requirements from current sources, the company may need to raise additional funds from external sources. if the financial and credit markets continue to experience disruption and volatility, the company may experience difficulty obtaining external funding and could incur increased financing costs. additionally, current conditions in financial markets, including the bankruptcy and restructuring of certain financial institutions, could affect financial institutions with which the company has relationships and could result in adverse effects on the company's ability to fully utilize its committed borrowing facilities. for example, another lender under the revolving credit facility may be unwilling or unable to fund a borrowing request, and the company may not be able to replace such lender. covenant restrictions under the company's credit arrangements may pose a risk. the company has a number of credit facilities, including its revolving credit facility and its anz facility, and also has an accounts receivable securitization program, and has issued debt securities to manage liquidity and fund operations. the agreements relating to these facilities and securities generally contain certain restrictive covenants, including the incurrence of additional indebtedness, restriction of liens and sale and leaseback transactions, financial covenants relating to interest coverage, debt leverage and minimum liquidity, and restrictions on consolidation and merger transactions, as well as, in some cases, restrictions on amendments to the settlement agreement. although the company does not believe that any of these covenants presently materially restricts its operations, a breach of one or more of the covenants could result in material adverse consequences that could negatively impact the business, consolidated results of operations and financial position of the company. such adverse consequences may include the acceleration of amounts outstanding under certain of the facilities, triggering the obligation to redeem certain debt securities, termination of existing unused commitments by the company's lenders, refusal by lenders to extend further credit under one or more of the facilities or new facilities, or the lowering or modification of the company's credit ratings. 10 table of contents a downgrade of the company's credit ratings could have a negative impact on the company's costs and ability to access credit markets. in january 2009, standard &amp; poor's revised the company's long-term senior unsecured debt rating from bbb- to bb+ and revised the outlook to stable. the revised rating is considered below investment grade. the company's long-term senior unsecured debt rating is currently rated baa3 (negative outlook) by moody's investors service, inc. this rating is considered investment grade. if the company's credit ratings are further downgraded, there could be a negative impact on the company's ability to access capital markets and borrowing costs could increase. the global nature of the company's operations in the united states and in 51 foreign countries exposes it to numerous risks that could materially adversely affect its consolidated financial position and results of operations. the company operates in the united states and in 51 other countries, and its products are distributed in those countries as well as in other parts of the world. a large portion of the company's manufacturing operations are located outside of the united states. operations outside of the united states, particularly operations in emerging markets, are subject to various risks that may not be present or as significant for the company's u.s. operations. economic uncertainty in some of the geographic regions in which the company operates, including emerging markets, could result in the disruption of commerce and negatively impact cash flows from the company's operations in those areas. risks inherent in the company's international operations include social plans that prohibit or increase the cost of certain restructuring actions; exchange controls; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations including devaluations; the potential for changes in local economic conditions including local inflationary pressures; restrictive governmental actions such as those on transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection matters, including antidumping duties, tariffs, embargoes and prohibitions or restrictions on acquisitions or joint ventures; changes in laws and regulations, including the laws and policies of the united states affecting trade and foreign investment; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; variations in protection of intellectual property and other legal rights; more expansive legal rights of foreign unions or works councils, the potential for nationalization of enterprises; and unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against united states or other interests. in addition, there are potential tax inefficiencies in repatriating funds from the company's non-u.s. subsidiaries. these and other factors may have a material adverse effect on the company's international operations and, consequently, on the company's consolidated financial position and results of operations. strengthening of the u.s. dollar and other foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could materially impact the company's consolidated financial position and results of operations. during 2008, approximately 55% of the company's sales originated outside the united states. the company translates sales and other results denominated in foreign currency into u.s. dollars for the consolidated financial statements. during periods of a strengthening u.s. dollar, the company's reported international sales and earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer u. s. dollars. also, while the company generally produces in the same geographic markets as its products are sold, expenses are relatively concentrated in the united states compared with sales, so that in a time of strengthening of the u.s. dollar, the company's profit margins could be reduced. while the company uses financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency exposures, this does not insulate the company completely from currency effects. the company may use financial instruments from time to time to manage exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, which use exposes the company to counterparty credit risk for nonperformance. see note 12, "derivatives and hedging activities," of notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussion. 11 table of contents the full realization of the company's deferred tax assets, including primarily those related to the settlement agreement and the other than temporary impairment of the company's investments in auction rate securities, may be affected by a number of factors. the company has deferred tax assets related to the settlement agreement, the other than temporary impairment of its investments in auction rate securities, other accruals not yet deductible for tax purposes, foreign net operating loss carry forwards and investment tax allowances, employee benefit items, and other items. it has established valuation allowances to reduce those deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. the company's ability to utilize these deferred tax assets depends in part upon its future operating results and the availability of tax planning strategies. the company expects to realize these assets over an extended period. consequently, changes in tax laws, assumptions and the effectiveness of tax planning strategies could cause actual results to differ from projections. the company's largest deferred tax asset relates to its settlement agreement, including accrued interest. the value of this asset may be affected by the company's tax situation at the time of the payment under the settlement agreement as well as by the value of the company's common stock at that time. the deferred tax asset reflects the fair market value of 18 million shares of the company's common stock at a post-split price of $17.86 per share based on the price when the settlement agreement was reached in 2002. the company's annual effective tax rate can materially change as a result of changes in mix of earnings and other factors. the company's overall effective tax rate is equal to the company's total tax expense as a percentage of total earnings before tax. however, tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global basis but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis. changes in statutory tax rates and laws and ongoing audits by domestic and international authorities could affect the amount of income taxes and other taxes paid by the company. also, changes in the mix of earnings between jurisdictions and assumptions used in the calculation of income taxes, among other factors, could have a significant effect on the company's overall effective tax rate. the company experiences competition in its operating segments and in the geographic areas in which it operates. the company's products compete with similar products made by other manufacturers and with a number of other types of materials or products. the company competes on the basis of performance characteristics of its products, as well as service, price and innovations in technology. a number of competing domestic and foreign companies are strong, well-established companies. the company's inability to maintain a competitive advantage could result in lower prices or lower sales volume, which would have a negative impact on the company's consolidated financial position and results of operations. a slowing pipeline of new technologies and solutions at favorable margins could adversely affect the company's performance and prospects for future growth. the company's competitive advantage is due in part to the ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the development and introduction cycle of new products can be lengthy and involve high levels of investment. new products may not meet sales expectations or margin expectations due to many factors, including the company's inability to accurately predict demand, end-user preferences and evolving industry standards, to resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies. the effects of animal and food-related health issues such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy, also known as "mad cow" disease, foot-and-mouth disease and avian influenza or "bird-flu," as well as other health issues affecting the food industry, may lead to decreased revenues for the company. the company manufactures and sells food packaging and food solutions products, among other products. various health issues affecting the food industry have in the past and may in the future have a negative effect on the sales of food packaging and food solutions products. in recent years, occasional cases of mad cow disease have been confirmed and incidents of bird flu have continued to surface in various countries. outbreaks of animal diseases such as mad cow or foot-and-mouth disease, for example, may lead governments to restrict exports and imports of potentially affected animals and food products, leading to decreased demand for the company's products and possibly also to the culling or slaughter of significant 12 table of contents numbers of the animal population otherwise intended for food supply. also, consumers may change their eating habits as a result of perceived problems with certain types of food. these factors may lead to reduced sales of food packaging and food solutions products by the company, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial position and results of operations. a major loss of or disruption in the company's manufacturing and distribution operations or its information systems and telecommunication resources could adversely affect the company's business. if the company experienced a natural disaster, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes or other severe weather events, or a casualty loss from an event such as a fire or flood, at one of its larger strategic facilities or if such event affected a key supplier, the company's supply chain, or its information systems and telecommunication resources, then there could be a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated results of operations. the price of the company's common stock has on occasion experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. the sale of substantial amounts of the company's common stock could adversely affect the price of the common stock. one stockholder has beneficial ownership of approximately 37% of the company's common shares. the market price of the company's common stock has experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations greater than those experienced by the broader stock market. in addition, the company's announcements of its quarterly operating results, future developments relating to the w. r. grace &amp; co. bankruptcy, additional litigation against the company, the effects of animal and food-related health issues, spikes in raw material and energy-related costs, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting the company, its customers, suppliers and competitors could cause the market price of the common stock to fluctuate substantially. the sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of the company's common stock in the public market could adversely affect the price of the common stock. according to a schedule 13g/a filed with the sec, dated as of february 12, 2009, davis selected advisers, l.p. reported beneficial ownership of 57,784,149 shares, or approximately 37%, of the outstanding shares of the company's common stock. while the schedule 13g/a filed by davis selected advisers indicates that the beneficially-owned shares of the company's common stock were not acquired for the purpose of changing or influencing the control of the company, if that stockholder were to change its purpose for holding the company's common stock from investment to attempting to change or influence the management of the company, this concentration of the company's common stock could potentially affect the company and the price of its common stock. also, davis selected advisers has a significant voting block with respect to matters submitted to a stockholder vote, including the election of directors and the approval of potential business combination transactions. the company's ability to successfully achieve the targeted benefits associated with its cost reduction and productivity program and its global manufacturing strategy could affect its consolidated financial position and results of operations. the company is in various stages of completion of a cost reduction and productivity program and its global manufacturing strategy. the goals of these initiatives include the expansion of capacity in growing markets, better operating efficiencies, a lower cost structure, more effective technology implementation and increased productivity. there can be no assurances that the estimated costs savings or efficiencies will materialize to the extent intended. there are risks inherent in undertaking such programs, including the sustainability of developing markets, shifts in customer preferences, competitive forces and technologies, cost overruns and unanticipated consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial position and results of operations. the current weakness in the financial and credit markets and other factors could potentially lead to the carrying amount of the company's goodwill and other long-lived assets becoming impaired and its investments in auction rate securities becoming further impaired. at december 31, 2008, the company's goodwill balance was $1,938.1 million. in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 142, "goodwill and other intangible assets," the company performs an annual impairment review of goodwill, which it does during the fourth quarter of each year and at other times if events and circumstances exist that indicate the carrying value of goodwill may potentially be no longer 13 table of contents recoverable. the company uses a fair value approach to test goodwill for impairment. the company must recognize an impairment charge for the amount, if any, by which the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. the company derives an estimate of fair values for each of the company's reporting units using a combination of an income approach and two market approaches, each based on an applicable weighting. the income approach is based upon the present value of expected cash flows. expected cash flows are converted to present value using factors that consider the timing and risk of the future cash flows. the company uses two market approaches. the first market approach estimates the fair value of the reporting unit by applying ebitda (as defined in footnote 5 to item 6. selected financial data) multiples to the reporting unit's operating performance. the ebitda multiples are derived from comparable publicly-traded companies with similar investment characteristics to the reporting unit. the second market approach is based on the publicly traded common shares of the company, and the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is based on the applicable ebitda multiples of the company. the company has completed step one of its impairment test and fair value analysis for goodwill, and there were no impairments present and no impairment charge was recorded during the years ended december 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. although the company determined that there was no goodwill impairment in 2008, the future occurrence of a potential indicator of impairment, such as a decrease in expected earnings, adverse equity market conditions, a decline in current market multiples, a decline in the company's common stock price, a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions, or a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of, could require an interim assessment for some or all of the reporting units prior to the next required annual assessment. in the event of significant adverse changes of the nature described above, the company might have to recognize a non-cash impairment of goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's consolidated financial position and results of operations. the company recorded a $34.0 million pre-tax charge in 2008 as a result of recognizing impairment related to an other than temporary decline in the fair market value of its auction rate securities investments. this impairment was due to the continuing decline in the creditworthiness of the issuers of these securities and the lack of a market for auction rate securities generally. the original cost of the company's auction rate securities investments was $44.7 million and the estimated remaining fair market value was $10.7 million at december 31, 2008. the company continues to monitor developments in the market for auction rate securities including the specific securities in which it has invested. if liquidity conditions relating to these securities, or the issuers worsen, the company may recognize additional other than temporary impairments, which would result in the recognition of additional losses on its condensed consolidated statement of operations. the company's subsidiaries hold substantially all of its assets and conduct substantially all of its operations, and as a result the company relies on distributions or advances from its subsidiaries. the company conducts substantially all of its business through two direct wholly-owned subsidiaries, cryovac, inc. and sealed air corporation (us). these two subsidiaries, directly and indirectly, own substantially all of the assets of the company's business and conduct operations themselves and through other subsidiaries around the globe. therefore, the company depends on distributions or advances from its subsidiaries to meet its debt service and other obligations and to pay dividends with respect to shares of its common stock. contractual provisions, laws or regulations to which the company or any of its subsidiaries may become subject, tax inefficiencies and the financial condition and operating requirements of subsidiaries may reduce funds available for service of the company's indebtedness, dividends, and general corporate purposes. cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements the sec encourages companies to disclose forward-looking statements so that investors can better understand a company's future prospects and make informed investment decisions. some of the company's statements in this report, in documents incorporated by reference into this report and in the company's future oral and written statements, may be forward-looking. these statements reflect the company's beliefs and expectations as to future events and trends affecting the company's business, its consolidated financial position and its results of operations. these forward-looking statements are based upon the company's 14 table of contents current expectations concerning future events and discuss, among other things, anticipated future performance and future business plans. forward-looking statements are identified by such words and phrases as "anticipates," "believes," "could be," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "may,""plans to," "will" and similar expressions. forward-looking statements are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside the control of the company that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements. while investors should carefully consider the most significant risk factors discussed by the company above, the list is not intended to set forth all risks that the company may face and there could be other factors that affect the company's future financial position and results of operations. examples of such factors include: disruptions to data or voice networks; changes in interest rates; the company's ability to hire, develop and retain talented employees worldwide; and legal and environmental matters. except as required by the federal securities laws, the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk." shareholders' equity the company's shareholders' equity was $1,924.6 million at december 31, 2008 and $2,019.6 million at december 31, 2007. shareholders' equity decreased $95.0 million, or 4.7%, in 2008 compared with 2007 primarily due to the following: negative foreign currency translation of $118.4 million in 2008; repurchases of common stock at a cost of $95.1 million in 2008; and dividends paid on common stock of $76.4 million in 2008; partially offset by: net earnings of $179.9 million in 2008; and the amortization of deferred compensation of $16.1 million related to the company's contingent stock plan. 48 table of contents recently issued statements of financial accounting standards, accounting guidance and disclosure requirements the company is subject to numerous recently issued statements of financial accounting standards, accounting guidance and disclosure requirements. note 2, "summary of significant accounting policies and recent accounting pronouncements," of notes to consolidated financial statements, which is contained in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k, describes these new accounting pronouncements and the company's application of the provisions of staff accounting bulletin no. 108 and is incorporated herein by reference. critical accounting policies and estimates the company's discussion and analysis of its consolidated financial position and results of operations are based upon its consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap. the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. estimates and assumptions are evaluated on an ongoing basis and are based on all available evidence, including historical experience and other factors believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. to derive these estimates and assumptions, management draws from those available sources that can best contribute to its efforts. these sources include the company's officers and other employees, outside consultants and legal counsel, experts and actuaries. in addition, the company uses internally generated reports and statistics, such as aging of accounts receivable, as well as outside sources such as government statistics, industry reports and third-party research studies. the results of these estimates and assumptions may form the basis of the carrying value of assets and liabilities and may not be readily apparent from other sources. actual results may differ from estimates under conditions and circumstances different from those assumed, and any such differences may be material to the company's consolidated financial statements. the company believes the following accounting policies are critical to its business operations and the understanding of its consolidated results of operations and affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. the critical accounting policies discussed below should be read together with the company's significant accounting policies set forth in "recent accounting pronouncements," of note 2, "summary of significant accounting policies and recent accounting pronouncements," of notes to consolidated financial statements. accounts receivable and allowance for doubtful accounts in the normal course of business, the company extends credit to its customers if they satisfy pre-defined credit criteria. the company maintains an accounts receivable allowance for estimated losses resulting from the failure of its customers to make required payments. an additional allowance may be required if the financial condition of the company's customers deteriorates. the allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that management assesses to be appropriate to absorb estimated losses in the accounts receivable portfolio. the allowance for doubtful accounts is reviewed quarterly, and changes to the allowance are made through the provision for bad debts, which is included in marketing, administrative and development expenses on the company's consolidated statements of operations. these changes may reflect changes in economic, business and market conditions. the allowance is increased by the provision for bad debts and decreased by the amount of charge-offs, net of recoveries. the provision for bad debts charged against operating results is based on several factors including, but not limited to, a regular assessment of the collectibility of specific customer balances, the length of time a receivable is past due and the company's historical experience with its customers. in circumstances where a specific customer's inability to meet its financial obligations is known, the company records a specific provision for bad debt against amounts due thereby reducing the receivable to the amount the company reasonably assesses will be collected. if circumstances change, such as higher than expected defaults or an unexpected material adverse change in a major customer's ability to pay, the company's estimates of recoverability could be reduced by a material amount. commitments and contingencies litigation on an ongoing basis, the company assesses the potential liabilities and costs related to any lawsuits or claims brought against it. the company accrues a liability when it believes a loss is probable and when the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. litigation 49 table of contents proceedings are evaluated on a case-by-case basis considering the available information, including that received from internal and outside legal counsel, to assess potential outcomes. while it is typically very difficult to determine the timing and ultimate outcome of these actions, the company uses its best judgment to determine if it is probable that it will incur an expense related to the settlement or final adjudication of these matters and whether a reasonable estimation of the probable loss, if any, can be made. in assessing probable losses, the company considers insurance recoveries, if any. the company expenses legal costs, including those legal costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency, as incurred. the company has in the past adjusted existing accruals as proceedings have continued, been settled or otherwise provided further information on which the company could review the likelihood of outflows of resources and their measurability, and the company expects to do so in future periods. due to the inherent uncertainties related to the eventual outcome of litigation and potential insurance recovery, it is possible that disputed matters may be resolved for amounts materially different from any provisions or disclosures that the company has previously made. impairment of long-lived assets the determination of the value of long-lived assets requires management to make assumptions and estimates that affect the company's consolidated financial statements. the company periodically reviews long-lived assets, other than goodwill, for impairment whenever there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. assumptions and estimates used in the determination of impairment losses, such as future cash flows, which are based on operational performance, market conditions and other factors, and disposition costs, may affect the carrying value of long-lived assets and result in possible impairment expense in the company's consolidated financial statements. as assumptions and estimates change in the future, the company may be required to record an impairment charge. goodwill in accordance with sfas no. 142, goodwill is reviewed for possible impairment at least annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. a review of goodwill may be initiated prior to or after conducting the annual analysis if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may potentially be no longer recoverable. the company uses a fair value approach to test goodwill for impairment. the company must recognize an impairment charge for the amount, if any, by which the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. the company derives an estimate of fair values for each of the company's reporting units using a combination of an income approach and two market approaches, each based on an applicable weighting. the company assesses the applicable weighting based on such factors as current market conditions and the quality and reliability of the data. absent an indication of fair value from a potential buyer or similar specific transactions, the company believes that the use of these methods provides a reasonable estimate of a reporting unit's fair value. fair value computed by these methods is arrived at using a number of factors, including projected future operating results, anticipated future cash flows, comparable marketplace data within a consistent industry grouping, and the cost of capital. there are inherent uncertainties, however, related to these factors and to the company's judgment in applying them to this analysis. nonetheless, the company believes that the combination of these methods provides a reasonable approach to estimate the fair value of the company's reporting units. assumptions for sales, earnings and cash flows for each reporting unit were consistent among these methods. the income approach is based upon the present value of expected cash flows. expected cash flows are converted to present value using factors that consider the timing and risk of the future cash flows. the estimate of cash flows used is prepared on an unleveraged debt-free basis. the discount rate reflects a market-derived weighted average cost of capital. the company believes that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon the reporting unit's expected long-term operating and cash flow performance. the projections are based upon the company's best estimates of projected economic and market conditions over the related period including growth rates, estimates of future expected changes in operating margins and cash expenditures. other significant estimates and assumptions include terminal value growth rates, terminal value margin rates, future capital expenditures and changes in future working capital. the company uses two market approaches. the first market approach estimates the fair value of the reporting unit by applying ebitda multiples to the reporting unit's operating performance. the ebitda multiples are derived from comparable publicly-traded companies with similar investment characteristics to the reporting unit. the company believes that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value 50 table of contents estimate using multiples from entities with operations and economic characteristics comparable to its reporting units and the company. the second market approach is based on the publicly traded common shares of the company and the estimate of fair value of the reporting unit is based on the applicable ebitda multiples of the company. the key estimates and assumptions that are used to determine fair value under the two market approaches includes trailing and future 12-month ebitda results, as applicable. under both market approaches, a control premium is applied to the calculated equity values to adjust the public trading value upward for a 100% ownership interest, where applicable. see note 9, "goodwill and identifiable intangible assets," of notes to consolidated financial statements for details of the company's goodwill balance and the goodwill review performed in 2008 and other related information. self-insurance the company retains the obligation for specified claims and losses related to property, casualty, workers' compensation and employee benefit claims. the company accrues for outstanding reported claims and claims that have been incurred but not reported based upon management's estimates of the aggregate liability for retained losses using historical experience, insurance company estimates and the estimated trends in claim values. the company's estimates include management's and independent insurance companies' assumptions regarding economic conditions, the frequency and severity of claims and claim development patterns and settlement practices. these estimates and assumptions are monitored and evaluated on a periodic basis by management and are adjusted when warranted by changing circumstances. although management believes it has the ability to adequately project and record estimated claim payments, actual results could differ significantly from the recorded liabilities. pensions the company maintains a non-contributory profit sharing plan and a contributory thrift and retirement savings plan in which most u.s. employees of the company are eligible to participate. for a limited number of its u.s. employees and for some of its international employees, the company maintains defined benefit pension plans. the company accounts for these pension plans in accordance with sfas no. 158, "employers' accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans." under this accounting standard, the company makes assumptions regarding the valuation of projected benefit obligations and the performance of plan assets. the projected benefit obligation and the net periodic benefit cost are based on third-party actuarial assumptions and estimates that are reviewed by management on an annual basis. the principal assumptions concern the discount rate used to measure the projected benefit obligation, the expected future rate of return on plan assets and the expected rate of future compensation increases. the company revises these assumptions based on an annual evaluation of long-term trends and market conditions that may have an impact on the cost of providing retirement benefits. in determining the discount rate, the company utilizes market conditions and other data sources management considers reasonable based upon the profile of the remaining service life of eligible employees. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is determined by taking into consideration the weighted-average expected return on the company's asset allocation, asset return data, historical return data, and the economic environment. the company believes these considerations provide the basis for reasonable assumptions of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. the rate of compensation increase is based on the company's long-term plans for such increases. the measurement date used to determine the benefit obligation and plan assets is december 31. at december 31, 2008, the projected benefit obligation for u.s. pension plans was $53.9 million and the net periodic benefit cost for the year ended december 31, 2008 was $2.9 million. at december 31, 2008, the projected benefit obligation for international pension plans was $237.8 million and the net periodic benefit cost for the year ended december 31, 2008 was $14.1 million. 51 table of contents in general, material changes to the principal assumptions could have a material impact on the costs and liabilities recorded under sfas no. 158. a 25 basis point change in the assumed discount rate and a 100 basis point change in the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets would have resulted in the following increases (decreases) on the projected benefit obligation at december 31, 2008 and the expected net periodic benefit cost for the year ended december 31, 2009 (in millions). 25 basis point increase 25 basis point decrease united states discount rate effect on 2008 projected benefit obligation $ (1.7 ) $ 1.8 effect on 2009 expected net periodic benefit cost (0.1 ) 0.1 100 basis point increase 100 basis point decrease return on assets effect on 2009 expected net periodic benefit cost $ (0.3 ) $ 0.3 25 basis point increase 25 basis point decrease international discount rate effect on 2008 projected benefit obligation $ (7.7 ) $ 8.1 effect on 2009 expected net periodic benefit cost (1.1 ) 0.8 100 basis point increase 100 basis point decrease return on assets effect on 2009 expected net periodic benefit cost $ (1.6 ) $ 1.6 income taxes estimates and judgments are required in the calculation of tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of deferred tax assets. the company's deferred tax assets arise from net deductible temporary differences and tax benefit carry forwards. the company evaluates whether its taxable earnings during the periods when the temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets become deductible or when tax benefit carry forwards may be utilized should be sufficient to realize the related future income tax benefits. for those jurisdictions where the expiration dates of tax benefit carry forwards or the projected taxable earnings indicate that realization is not likely, the company provides a valuation allowance. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, the company estimates future taxable earnings, with consideration for the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies and the realizability of tax benefit carry forwards and past operating results, to determine which deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized in the future. changes to tax laws, statutory tax rates and future taxable earnings can have an impact on valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets. in the event that actual results differ from these estimates in future periods, the company may need to adjust the valuation allowance, which could have a material impact on the company's consolidated financial statements. in calculating its worldwide provision for income taxes, the company also evaluates its tax positions for years where the statutes of limitations have not expired. based on this review, the company may establish reserves for additional taxes and interest that could be assessed upon examination by relevant tax authorities. the company adjusts these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, including the results of tax audits and changes in tax law. if the payment of additional taxes and interest ultimately proves unnecessary, the reversal of the reserves would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when the company determines the reserves are no longer necessary. if an estimate of tax reserves proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to income tax provision would result. these adjustments to reserves and related expenses could materially affect the company's consolidated financial statements. 52 table of contents on january 1, 2007, the company adopted the provisions of fin 48. under fin 48, the company recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. the tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon settlement with tax authorities. see note 15, "income taxes," of notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussion. summarized quarterly financial information (unaudited, in millions, except share data) 2008 first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter net sales $ 1,177.4 $ 1,278.8 $ 1,219.0 $ 1,168.3 gross profit 305.1 330.2 293.7 307.6 net earnings 60.8 62.6 9.2 47.3 basic net earnings per common share $ 0.38 $ 0.40 $ 0.06 $ 0.30 diluted net earnings per common share $ 0.33 $ 0.34 $ 0.05 $ 0.26 2007 first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter net sales $ 1,094.7 $ 1,145.4 $ 1,160.9 $ 1,250.2 gross profit 314.2 323.3 320.1 343.5 net earnings 127.0 73.9 72.4 79.7 basic net earnings per common share $ 0.79 $ 0.46 $ 0.45 $ 0.50 diluted net earnings per common share $ 0.67 $ 0.40 $ 0.39 $ 0.43 non-gaap information the company's management from time to time presents information that does not conform to u.s. gaap, including changes in net sales excluding the effects of foreign currency translation, the net impact of a business acquisition in 2008 and certain sales related to acquisitions. the company's management uses changes in net sales excluding the items above to measure the performance of the company's operations and to aid in the comparison of results. thus, management believes that this information may be useful to investors. such measures are also among the criteria upon which performance-based compensation may be determined. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices, which may adversely affect its consolidated financial position and results of operations. the company seeks to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rates from time to time, the company may use interest rate swaps, collars or options to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. the company's interest rate swaps are described in note 12, "derivatives and hedging activities," of notes to consolidated financial statements, which is contained in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k and in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps" contained in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k. such information is incorporated herein by reference. at december 31, 2008 and 2007, the company had no interest rate collars or options outstanding. the company had no interest rate swaps outstanding at december 31, 2008. 53 table of contents the carrying value of the company's total debt, which includes the impact of outstanding interest rate swaps in 2007, was $1,479.0 million at december 31, 2008 and $1,871.8 million at december 31, 2007. the company's fixed rate debt, including the impact of interest rate swaps in 2007, was $1,430.9 million at december 31, 2008 and $1,526.1 million at december 31, 2007. the fair value of the company's fixed rate debt varies with changes in interest rates. generally, the fair value of fixed rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the estimated fair value of the company's total debt, including the impact of outstanding interest rate swaps in 2007, was $1,204.8 million at december 31, 2008 compared with $1,818.4 million at december 31, 2007. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would result in an increase of $74.1 million in the fair value of the total debt balance at december 31, 2008. these changes in the fair value of the company's fixed rate debt do not alter the company's obligations to repay the outstanding principal amount of such debt. see note 13, "fair value measurements and financial instruments," of notes to consolidated financial statements for details of the methodology and inputs used to determine the fair value of the company's fixed rate debt in accordance with sfas no. 157, "fair value measurements." foreign exchange rates the company uses foreign currency forward contracts to fix the amount payable on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates at december 31, 2008 would have caused the company to pay approximately $37.2 million to terminate these contracts. the company's foreign currency forward contracts are described in note 12, "derivatives and hedging activities," of notes to consolidated financial statements, which is contained in part ii, item 8 and in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources derivative financial instruments foreign currency forward contracts" contained in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k. such information is incorporated herein by reference. the company may use other derivative instruments from time to time, such as foreign exchange options to manage exposure due to foreign exchange rates and interest rate and currency swaps related to access to additional sources of international financing. these instruments can potentially limit foreign exchange exposure and limit or adjust interest rate exposure by swapping borrowings denominated in one currency for borrowings denominated in another currency. at december 31, 2008 and 2007, the company had no foreign exchange options or interest rate and currency swap agreements outstanding. the company's outstanding debt is generally denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing subsidiary. the company believes that this enables it to better match operating cash flows with debt service requirements and to better match the currency of assets and liabilities. the amount of outstanding debt denominated in a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar was $48.5 million at december 31, 2008 and $49.2 million at december 31, 2007. available-for-sale investments the company's available-for-sale investments, consisting of auction rate securities at december 31, 2008 and 2007, are exposed to market risk related to changes in conditions in the u.s. financial markets and in the financial condition of the issuers of these securities. the company's investment in auction rate securities at december 31, 2008 and 2007 had an original cost of $44.7 million. these auction rate securities consisted of two contingent capital securities that were converted into perpetual preferred stock of ambac assurance corporation ("ambac"), the issuer, in december 2008, and three debt instruments individually issued by primus financial products llc (maturity date 2021), river lake insurance company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of genworth financial, inc. (maturity date 2033) and ballantyne re plc (maturity date 2036). these five securities historically were re-auctioned every twenty-eight days, which had provided a liquid market for them. however, as a result of continuing liquidity concerns affecting capital markets, particularly in the u.s., specifically for asset-backed securities, every auction held by the issuers for these auction rate securities in 2008 failed. during 2008, the company continued to receive all interest and dividend payments, totaling $2.2 million, when due. the company accounts for these investments as available-for-sale investments and reviews them for impairment in accordance with sfas no. 115, "accounting for certain investments in debt and equity 54 table of contents securities," and other related guidance issued by the fasb and the sec. during its impairment review, the company has evaluated the following: in the fourth quarter of 2008, the rating agencies lowered the credit rating on all of the issuers; the timeliness and level of interest and dividend payments received from the issuers; the duration and severity in the decline in the estimated fair market value of these securities; the exercise of ambac's put option, which converted the two contingent capital securities into non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock of ambac assurance in december 2008; ambac's cancellation of dividends on its common stock in december 2008; ballantyne's notification in january 2009 that it was unable to fully fund its upcoming interest payments. as a result, ballantyne exercised its option to rely on the insurance protection provided to it by ambac (uk), the issuer of an insurance wrap on this debt instrument held by the company; and the ability and intent of the company to hold these securities for a reasonable period of time sufficient for a recovery of their original cost. based on the evaluation discussed above, the company has determined that all of the securities incurred an other than temporary decline in fair market value during 2008. as a result, the company recorded an other than temporary impairment of the market value of these securities of $34.0 million ($21.8 million, net of taxes) and established a new cost basis of $10.7 million for these securities at december 31, 2008. the company's available-for-sale investments are described in more detail in note 5, "available-for-sale investments," of notes to consolidated financial statements. customer credit the company is exposed to credit risk from its customers. in the normal course of business the company extends credit to its customers if they satisfy pre-defined credit criteria. the company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the failure of its customers to make required payments. an additional allowance may be required if the financial condition of the company's customers deteriorates. the allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that management assesses to be appropriate to absorb estimated losses in the accounts receivable portfolio. the company's customers may default on their obligations to the company due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. despite uncertainties surrounding current global economic conditions and levels of credit risk, as of december 31, 2008, the company has not experienced a significant change in its customers' payment patterns or defaults. the company's provision for bad debt expense was $9.3 million in 2008 and $2.9 million in 2007. pensions recent market conditions have resulted in an unusually high degree of volatility and increased risks and short-term liquidity concerns associated with some of the plan assets held by the company's defined benefit pension plans, which have impacted the performance of some of the plan assets. based upon the annual valuation of the company's defined benefit pension plans at december 31, 2008 the company expects its net periodic benefit costs to increase to approximately $20.0 million in 2009 compared with $17.0 million in 2008. see note 14, "employee benefits and incentive programs," of notes to consolidated financial statements for further details on the company's defined benefit pension plans. commodities the company uses various commodity raw materials such as plastic resins and energy products such as electric power and natural gas in conjunction with its manufacturing processes. generally, the company acquires these components at market prices in the region in which they will be used and does not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. moreover, the company's supply chain team seeks to maintain appropriate levels of commodity raw material inventories thus minimizing the expense and risks of carrying excess inventories. the company does not typically purchase substantial quantities in advance of production requirements. as a result, the company is exposed to market risks related to changes in commodity prices of these components. 55 table of contentsrisk factors 9 cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements 16 risk factors introduction investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. these are the most significant risk factors; however, they are not the only risk factors that you should consider in making an investment decision. this annual report on form 10-k also contains and may incorporate by reference from our proxy statement for our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders, or from exhibits, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. see the "cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements" below. our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including the risks that we face, which are described below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k or in documents incorporated by reference in this report. our business, consolidated financial position or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. the trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks, and investors in our securities may lose all or part of their investment. weakened global economic conditions have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. weakened global economic conditions have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business in the form of lower net sales due to weakened demand, unfavorable changes in product price/mix, or in lower profit margins. during periods of economic recession, there can be a heightened competition for sales and increased pressure to reduce selling prices. if we lose significant sales volume or reduce selling prices significantly, then there could be a negative impact on our consolidated revenue, profitability and cash flows. also, reduced availability of credit may adversely affect the ability of some of our customers and suppliers to obtain funds for operations and capital expenditures. this could negatively impact our ability to obtain necessary supplies as well as our sales of materials and equipment to affected customers. this could result in reduced or delayed collections of outstanding accounts receivable. the global nature of our operations in the united states and in 50 foreign countries exposes us to numerous risks that could materially adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. we operate in the united states and in 50 other countries, and our products are distributed in those countries as well as in other parts of the world. a large portion of our manufacturing operations are located outside of the united states. operations outside of the united states, particularly operations in developing regions, are subject to various risks that may not be present or as significant for our u.s. operations. 9 table of contents economic uncertainty in some of the geographic regions in which we operate, including developing regions, could result in the disruption of commerce and negatively impact cash flows from our operations in those areas. risks inherent in our international operations include social plans that prohibit or increase the cost of certain restructuring actions; exchange controls; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations including devaluations; the potential for changes in local economic conditions including local inflationary pressures; restrictive governmental actions such as those on transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection matters, including antidumping duties, tariffs, embargoes and prohibitions or restrictions on acquisitions or joint ventures; changes in laws and regulations, including the laws and policies of the united states affecting trade and foreign investment; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; variations in protection of intellectual property and other legal rights; more expansive legal rights of foreign unions or works councils; the potential for nationalization of enterprises or facilities; and unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against united states or other interests. in addition, there are potential tax inefficiencies in repatriating funds from our non-u.s. subsidiaries. these and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. if the settlement of the asbestos-related claims that we have agreed to (the "settlement agreement") is not implemented, we will not be released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against us arising from a 1998 transaction with w. r. grace &amp; co. we are also a defendant in a number of asbestos-related actions in canada arising from w. r. grace &amp; co.'s activities in canada prior to the 1998 transaction. on november 27, 2002, we reached an agreement in principle with the official committee of asbestos personal injury claimants (the "acc") and the official committee of asbestos property damage claimants appointed to represent asbestos claimants in the w. r. grace &amp; co. ("grace") bankruptcy case to resolve all current and future asbestos-related claims made against us and our affiliates. the settlement agreement will also resolve the fraudulent transfer claims and successor liability claims, as well as indemnification claims by fresenius medical care holdings, inc. and affiliated companies in connection with the cryovac transaction. the cryovac transaction was a multi-step transaction, completed on march 31, 1998, which brought the cryovac packaging business and the former sealed air corporation's business under the common ownership of the company. the parties to the agreement in principle signed the definitive settlement agreement as of november 10, 2003 consistent with the terms of the agreement in principle. on june 27, 2005, the u.s. bankruptcy court for the district of delaware, where the grace bankruptcy case is pending, signed an order approving the definitive settlement agreement. although grace is not a party to the settlement agreement, under the terms of the order, grace is directed to comply with the settlement agreement subject to limited exceptions. on september 19, 2008, grace, the acc, the asbestos pi future claimants' representative (the "fcr"), and the official committee of equity security holders (the "equity committee") filed, as co-proponents, a plan of reorganization (as filed and amended from time to time, the "pi settlement plan") and several exhibits and associated documents, including a disclosure statement (as filed and amended from time to time, the "pi settlement disclosure statement"), with the bankruptcy court. as filed, the pi settlement plan would provide for the establishment of two asbestos trusts under section 524(g) of the united states bankruptcy code to which present and future asbestos-related claims would be channeled. the pi settlement plan also contemplates that the terms of our definitive settlement agreement will be incorporated into the pi settlement plan and that we will pay the amount contemplated by that agreement. if confirmed, the pi settlement plan may implement the terms of the settlement agreement, but there can be no assurance that this will be the case. the terms of the pi settlement plan remain subject to amendment. moreover, the pi settlement plan is subject to the satisfaction of a number of conditions, including the availability of exit financing and the approval of both the bankruptcy court and united states district court for the district of delaware (the "district court"). a number of objections to the pi settlement plan have been filed and remain unresolved, and certain of these objections concern injunctions, releases and provisions as applied to us and/or that are contemplated by the settlement agreement. the bankruptcy court has conducted hearings to consider confirmation of the pi settlement plan and has heard closing arguments with respect to the pi settlement plan, but additional hearings may be held by 10 table of contents the bankruptcy court and the district court to consider matters related to the pi settlement plan. we do not know whether or when a final plan of reorganization will become effective. assuming that a final plan of reorganization (whether the pi settlement plan or another plan of reorganization) is confirmed by the bankruptcy court, approved by the district court, and does become effective, we do not know whether the final plan of reorganization will be consistent with the terms of the settlement agreement and if the other conditions to our obligation to pay the settlement agreement amount will be met. if these conditions are not satisfied or not waived by us, we will not be obligated to pay the amount contemplated by the settlement agreement. however, if we do not pay the settlement agreement amount, we and our affiliates will not be released from the various claims against us. if the settlement agreement does not become effective, either because grace fails to emerge from bankruptcy or because grace does not emerge from bankruptcy with a plan of reorganization that is consistent with the terms of the settlement agreement, then we and our affiliates will not be released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against us and our affiliates noted above, and all of these claims would remain pending and would have to be resolved through other means, such as through agreement on alternative settlement terms or trials. in that case, we could face liabilities that are significantly different from our obligations under the settlement agreement. we cannot estimate at this time what those differences or their magnitude may be. in the event these liabilities are materially larger than the current existing obligations, they could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. since november 2004, the company and specified subsidiaries have been named as defendants in a number of cases, including a number of putative class actions, brought in canada as a result of grace's alleged marketing, manufacturing or distributing of asbestos or asbestos-containing products in canada prior to the cryovac transaction in 1998. grace has agreed to defend and indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases. the canadian cases are currently stayed. a global settlement of these canadian claims to be funded by grace has been approved by the canadian court, and the pi settlement plan provides for payment of these claims. we do not have any positive obligations under the canadian settlement, but we are a beneficiary of the release of claims. the release in favor of the grace parties (including us) will become operative upon the effective date of a plan of reorganization in grace's united states chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding. as filed, the pi settlement plan contemplates that the claims released under the canadian settlement will be subject to injunctions under section 524(g) of the bankruptcy code. by its terms, the canadian settlement will, unless amended, become null and void if a confirmation order in the grace u.s. bankruptcy proceeding is not granted prior to december 31, 2010. we can give no assurance that the pi settlement plan (or any other plan of reorganization) will be confirmed by the bankruptcy court, approved by the district court, or will become effective. assuming that a final plan of reorganization (whether the pi settlement plan or another plan of reorganization) is confirmed by the bankruptcy court, approved by the district court, and does become effective, if the final plan of reorganization does not incorporate the terms of the canadian settlement or if the canadian courts refuse to enforce the final plan of reorganization in the canadian courts, and if in addition grace is unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases, then we could be required to pay substantial damages, which we cannot estimate at this time and which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. for further information concerning these matters, see note 16, "commitments and contingencies," of notes to consolidated financial statements under the caption "cryovac transaction commitments and contingencies." a downgrade of our credit ratings could have a negative impact on our costs and ability to access credit markets. our long-term senior unsecured debt is currently rated bb+ (stable outlook) by standard &amp; poor's financial services llc. this rating is considered below investment grade. our long-term senior unsecured debt is currently rated baa3 (negative outlook) by moody's investor service, inc. this rating is considered investment grade. if our credit ratings are further downgraded, there could be a negative impact on our ability to access capital markets, and our borrowing costs could increase. 11 table of contents raw material pricing, availability and allocation by suppliers as well as energy-related costs may negatively impact our results of operations, including our profit margins. we use petrochemical-based raw materials to manufacture many of our products. increases in market demand or fluctuations in the global trade for petrochemical-based raw materials and energy could increase our costs. we also have some sole-source suppliers, and the lack of availability of supplies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers in the future. these factors could lead to increased prices for our raw materials, curtailment of supplies and allocation of raw materials by our suppliers, which could reduce revenues and profit margins and harm relations with our customers and which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. the effects of animal and food-related health issues such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy, also known as "mad cow" disease, foot-and-mouth disease and avian influenza or "bird-flu," as well as other health issues affecting the food industry, may lead to decreased revenues. we manufacture and sell food packaging products, among other products. various health issues affecting the food industry have in the past and may in the future have a negative effect on the sales of food packaging products. in recent years, occasional cases of mad cow disease have been confirmed and incidents of bird flu have surfaced in various countries. outbreaks of animal diseases such as mad cow or foot-and-mouth disease, for example, may lead governments to restrict exports and imports of potentially affected animals and food products, leading to decreased demand for our products and possibly also to the culling or slaughter of significant numbers of the animal population otherwise intended for food supply. also, consumers may change their eating habits as a result of perceived problems with certain types of food. these factors may lead to reduced sales of food packaging products, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. concerns about greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions and climate change and the resulting governmental and market responses to these issues could increase costs that we incur and could otherwise affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives have been enacted and proposed in response to concerns about ghg emissions and climate change. we are a manufacturing entity that utilizes petrochemical-based raw materials to produce many of our products, including plastic packaging materials. increased environmental legislation or regulation could result in higher costs for us in the form of higher raw materials and freight and energy costs. we could also incur additional compliance costs for monitoring and reporting emissions and for maintaining permits. disruption and volatility of the financial and credit markets could affect our external liquidity sources. our principal sources of liquidity are accumulated cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flow from operations and amounts available under our existing lines of credit, including our global credit facility, our european credit facility, and our accounts receivable securitization program, as described in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, which is included in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k. our accounts receivable securitization program includes a bank financing commitment that must be renewed annually prior to the expiration date. the bank commitment is scheduled to expire on december 3, 2010. while the bank is not obligated to renew the bank financing commitment, we have negotiated annual renewals since the commencement of the program in 2001. additionally, recent conditions in financial markets, including the bankruptcy and restructuring of some financial institutions, could affect financial institutions with which we have relationships and could result in adverse effects on our ability to utilize fully our committed borrowing facilities. for example, a lender under our global credit facility or the european credit facility may be unwilling or unable to fund a borrowing request, and we may not be able to replace such lender. 12 table of contents covenant restrictions under our credit arrangements may pose a risk. we have a number of credit facilities, including our global credit facility and our european credit facility, and also have an accounts receivable securitization program, as well as debt securities we have issued to manage liquidity and fund operations as described in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, which is included in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k. the agreements relating to these facilities and securities generally contain certain restrictive covenants, including the incurrence of additional indebtedness, restriction of liens and sale and leaseback transactions, financial covenants relating to interest coverage, debt leverage and minimum liquidity, and restrictions on consolidation and merger transactions, as well as, in some cases, restrictions on amendments to the settlement agreement. in addition, amounts available under our accounts receivable securitization program can be impacted by a number of factors, including but not limited to our credit ratings, accounts receivable balances, the creditworthiness of our customers and our receivables collection experience. as a result of the impact of some of these factors, the amount available to us under the program has decreased. although we do not believe that any of these covenants or other restrictive provisions presently materially restricts our liquidity position, a breach of one or more of the covenants or an event that triggers other restrictive provisions could result in material adverse consequences that could negatively impact our business, consolidated results of operations and financial position. this in turn could result in a further decline in amounts available under the accounts receivable securitization program or termination of the program. such adverse consequences may include the acceleration of amounts outstanding under certain of the facilities, triggering the obligation to redeem certain debt securities, termination of existing unused commitments by our lenders or the bank commitment related to our accounts receivable securitization program, refusal by lenders to extend further credit under one or more of the facilities or to enter into new facilities, or the lowering or modification of our credit ratings. strengthening of the u.s. dollar and other foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could materially impact our consolidated financial position and results of operations. during 2009, approximately 54% of our sales originated outside the united states. we translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currency into u.s. dollars for our consolidated financial statements. during periods of a strengthening u.s. dollar, our reported international sales and net earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer u.s. dollars. also, while we often produce in the same geographic markets as our products are sold, expenses are relatively concentrated in the united states compared with sales, so that in a time of strengthening of the u.s. dollar, our profit margins could be reduced. while we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency exposures, this does not insulate us completely from currency effects. we may have to recognize foreign exchange gains and/or losses related to the recent currency devaluation in venezuela and its designation as a highly inflationary economy under generally accepted accounting principles in the united states of america, or u.s. gaap, effective january 1, 2010. see "foreign currency exchange rate risk," of item 7a, "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk," for further discussion. we may use financial instruments from time to time to manage exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, which use exposes us to counterparty credit risk for nonperformance. see note 12, "derivatives and hedging activities," of notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussion, which is contained in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. the full realization of our deferred tax assets, including primarily those related to the settlement agreement and the other than temporary impairment of our investments in auction rate securities, may be affected by a number of factors. we have deferred tax assets related to the settlement agreement, the other than temporary impairment of our investments in auction rate securities, other accruals not yet deductible for tax purposes, foreign net operating loss carry forwards and investment tax allowances, employee benefit items, and other items. we have established valuation allowances to reduce those deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. our ability to utilize these deferred tax assets depends in part upon our future operating results. we expect to realize these assets over an extended period. consequently, changes in tax laws could cause actual results to differ from projections. 13 table of contents our largest deferred tax asset relates to our settlement agreement, including accrued interest. the value of this asset may be affected by our tax situation at the time of the payment under the settlement agreement as well as by the value of our common stock at that time. the deferred tax asset reflects the fair market value of 18 million shares of our common stock at a post-split price of $17.86 per share based on the price when the settlement agreement was reached in 2002. our annual effective tax rate can materially change as a result of changes in our u.s. and foreign mix of earnings and other factors including changes in tax laws and changes by regulatory authorities. our overall effective tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of total earnings before tax. however, tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global basis but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis. changes in statutory tax rates and laws, as well as ongoing audits by domestic and international authorities, could affect the amount of income taxes and other taxes paid by us. for example, recent legislative proposals to change u.s. taxation of non-u.s. earnings or a failure to extend the u.s. research and experimentation credit could increase our effective tax rate. also, changes in the mix of earnings between jurisdictions and assumptions used in the calculation of income taxes, among other factors, could have a significant effect on our overall effective tax rate. we experience competition in our operating segments and in the geographic areas in which we operate. our products compete with similar products made by other manufacturers and with a number of other types of materials or products. we compete on the basis of performance characteristics of our products, as well as service, price and innovations in technology. a number of competing domestic and foreign companies are strong, well established companies. our inability to maintain a competitive advantage could result in lower prices or lower sales volume, which would have a negative impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. a slowing pipeline of new technologies and solutions at favorable margins could adversely affect our performance and prospects for future growth. our competitive advantage is due in part to our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the development and introduction cycle of new products can be lengthy and involve high levels of investment. new products may not meet sales expectations or margin expectations due to many factors, including our inability to; accurately predict demand, end-user preferences and evolving industry standards; resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner; and achieve manufacturing efficiencies. a major loss of or disruption in our manufacturing and distribution operations or our information systems and telecommunication resources could adversely affect our business. if we experienced a natural disaster, such as a tornado, hurricane, earthquake or other severe weather event, or a casualty loss from an event such as a fire or flood, at one of our larger strategic facilities or if such event affected a key supplier, our supply chain, or our information systems and telecommunication resources, then there could be a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. the price of our common stock has on occasion experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the price of the common stock. one stockholder has beneficial ownership of approximately 37% of our common shares. the market price of our common stock has experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations greater than those experienced by the broader stock market. in addition, our announcements of our quarterly operating results, future developments relating to the w. r. grace &amp; co. bankruptcy, additional litigation against us, the effects of animal and food-related health issues, spikes in raw material and energy related costs, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us, our customers, suppliers and competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. 14 table of contents the sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the price of the common stock. according to a schedule 13g/a filed with the sec on february 12, 2010, davis selected advisers, l.p. reported beneficial ownership of 58,959,652 shares, or approximately 37%, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. as such, davis selected advisers has a significant voting block with respect to matters submitted to a stockholder vote, including the election of directors and the approval of potential business combination transactions. while the schedule 13g/a filed by davis selected advisers, l.p. indicates that the beneficially owned shares of our common stock were not acquired for the purpose of changing or influencing the control of the company, if that stockholder were to change its purpose for holding our common stock from investment to attempting to change or influence our management, this concentration of our common stock could potentially affect the company and the price of our common stock. weakness in the financial and credit markets and other factors could potentially lead to the impairment of the carrying amount of our goodwill and other long-lived assets and our investments in auction rate securities. we have seven reporting units that are included in our segment reporting structure. the six reporting units with goodwill balances allocated to them are food packaging, food solutions, protective packaging, shrink packaging, specialty materials and medical applications. we test goodwill for impairment on a reporting unit basis annually during the fourth quarter of each year and at other times if events or changes in circumstances exist that indicate the carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable. prior to our 2009 annual testing, we tested the goodwill of some of our reporting units at certain times earlier in the year, but no impairment charges were recorded. in the fourth quarter of 2009, we completed step one of our annual impairment test and fair value analysis for goodwill, and there were no impairments present and no impairment charge was recorded. we had the estimated fair values updated for all of our reporting units, except for the new ventures reporting unit because this reporting unit does not have any goodwill included in its net asset value. although we determined that there was no goodwill impairment in 2009, the future occurrence of a potential indicator of impairment, such as a decrease in our expected net earnings, adverse equity market conditions, a decline in current market multiples, a decline in our common stock price, a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climates, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions, or a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of, could require an interim assessment for some or all of the reporting units before the next required annual assessment. in the event of significant adverse changes of the nature described above, we might have to recognize a non-cash impairment of goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. we recorded a total of $38.0 million of pre-tax charges in 2009 and 2008 as a result of recognizing impairment related to other than temporary declines in the estimated fair market value of our auction rate securities investments. this impairment was due to the continuing decline in the creditworthiness of the issuers of these securities and the lack of a market for auction rate securities generally. the original cost of our auction rate securities investments was $44.7 million and the estimated remaining fair market value was $13.7 million at december 31, 2009 and $10.7 million at december 31, 2008. we continue to monitor developments in the market for auction rate securities including the specific securities in which we have invested. if liquidity conditions relating to these securities or the issuers worsen, we may recognize additional other than temporary impairments, which would result in the recognition of additional losses on our consolidated statement of operations. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial results or harm our reputation or the value of our brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of our products arise in the ordinary course of our business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm our reputation in the marketplace or adversely impact the value of our brands or our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. we could also be required to recall possibly defective products, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. 15 table of contents although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims could be excluded or exceed coverage limits under the terms of our insurance policies or could result in increased costs for such coverage. our subsidiaries hold substantially all of our assets and conduct substantially all of our operations, and as a result we rely on distributions or advances from our subsidiaries. we conduct substantially all of our business through two direct wholly-owned subsidiaries, cryovac, inc. and sealed air corporation (us). these two subsidiaries, directly and indirectly, own substantially all of the assets of our business and conduct operations themselves and through other subsidiaries around the globe. therefore, we depend on distributions or advances from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other obligations and to pay dividends with respect to shares of our common stock. contractual provisions, laws or regulations to which we or any of our subsidiaries may become subject, tax inefficiencies and the financial condition and operating requirements of subsidiaries may reduce funds available for service of our indebtedness, dividends, and general corporate purposes. cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements the sec encourages companies to disclose forward-looking statements so that investors can better understand a company's future prospects and make informed investment decisions. some of our statements in this report, in documents incorporated by reference into this report and in our future oral and written statements, may be forward-looking. these statements reflect our beliefs and expectations as to future events and trends affecting our business, our consolidated financial position and our results of operations. these forward-looking statements are based upon our current expectations concerning future events and discuss, among other things, anticipated future financial performance and future business plans. forward-looking statements are identified by such words and phrases as "anticipates," "believes," "could be," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "may," "plans to," "will" and similar expressions. forward-looking statements are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside our control that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements. the following are important factors that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from those in our forward-looking statements: the implementation of our settlement agreement regarding the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against it arising from a 1998 transaction with w. r. grace &amp; co.; general economic conditions, particularly as they affect packaging use; credit ratings; raw material pricing and availability; changes in the value of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar; the effects of animal and food-related health issues; pandemics; legal and environmental matters involving us; and the other risk factors set forth above. except as required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices, which may adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. we seek to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. we do not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rates from time to time, we may use interest rate swaps, collars or options to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. our interest rate swaps are described in note 12, "derivatives and hedging activities," of notes to consolidated financial statements, which is contained in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k and in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps" contained in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k. such information is incorporated herein by reference. at december 31, 2009, we had outstanding interest rate swaps, but no outstanding collars or options. at december 31, 2008, we had no outstanding interest rate swaps, collars or options. the carrying value of our total debt, which includes the impact of outstanding interest rate swaps in 2009, was $1,661.0 million at december 31, 2009 and $1,479.0 million at december 31, 2008. our fixed rate debt, including the impact of interest rate swaps in 2009, was $1,568.6 million at december 31, 2009 and $1,430.9 million at december 31, 2008. the fair value of our fixed rate debt varies with changes in interest rates. generally, the fair value of fixed rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the estimated fair value of our total debt, including the impact of outstanding interest rate swaps in 2009, was $1,774.7 million at december 31, 2009 and $1,204.8 million at december 31, 2008. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would result in an increase of $66.9 million in the fair value of the total debt balance at december 31, 2009. these changes in the fair value of our fixed rate debt do not alter our obligations to repay the outstanding principal amount of such debt. see note 13, "fair value measurements and other financial instruments," of notes to consolidated financial statements for details of the methodology and inputs used to determine the fair value of our fixed rate debt. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a large, global organization, we face exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could materially impact our consolidated financial position or results of operations in the future. 53 table of contents the translation of the financial statements of our non-u.s. operations is impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. the change in net sales and operating income was impacted by the translation of our international financial statements into u.s. dollars. this resulted in a decrease in net sales of $242 million and increased operating profit by $26 million in 2009 compared with 2008. recent economic events in venezuela have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risk. effective january 1, 2010, venezuela has been designated as a highly inflationary economy, and the u.s. dollar replaced the bolivar fuerte as the functional currency for our subsidiary in venezuela. in accordance with u.s. gaap, a highly inflationary economy is one that has a cumulative inflation rate of approximately 100 percent or more over a three-year period. we determined the cumulative inflation rate using a blended inflation rate which included the national consumer price index, known as the ncpi, and the consumer price index, known as the cpi. the cpi is only based on the metropolitan areas of caracas and maracaibo in venezuela and the ncpi is based on the entire country of venezuela. once a country is designated to be a highly inflationary economy, the remeasurement method must be used, which is also called the monetary/nonmonetary method. all bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities are re-measured into u.s. dollars using the current exchange rate and any changes in foreign currency are reflected in other (expense) income on the consolidated statement of operations. all bolivar-denominated nonmonetary assets and liabilities are re-measured into u.s. dollars using the historical exchange rates. the potential future impact to our consolidated financial position and results of operations for future bolivar-denominated transactions will depend on the exchange rates in effect when we enter into, remeasure and settle transactions. therefore, it is difficult to predict the future impact until each transaction settles at its applicable exchange rate or gets remeasured into u.s. dollars. at december 31, 2009, our subsidiary in venezuela had net assets of approximately $8 million. for the year ended december 31, 2009, less than 1% of our consolidated net sales and less than 3% of our consolidated operating profit was derived from our business in venezuela. accordingly, we do not expect the devaluation of the bolivar fuerte to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. we use foreign currency forward contracts to fix the amount payable on some transactions denominated in foreign currencies. a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates at december 31, 2009 would have caused us to pay approximately $35.6 million to terminate these contracts. our foreign currency forward contracts are described in note 12, "derivatives and hedging activities," of notes to consolidated financial statements, which is contained in part ii, item 8 and in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources derivative financial instruments foreign currency forward contracts" contained in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k. such information is incorporated herein by reference. we may use other derivative instruments from time to time, such as foreign exchange options to manage exposure due to foreign exchange rates and interest rate and currency swaps related to access to additional sources of international financing. these instruments can potentially limit foreign exchange exposure and limit or adjust interest rate exposure by swapping borrowings denominated in one currency for borrowings denominated in another currency. at december 31, 2009 and 2008, we had no foreign exchange options and currency swap agreements outstanding. our outstanding debt is generally denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing subsidiary. we believe that this enables us to better match operating cash flows with debt service requirements and to better match the currency of assets and liabilities. the amount of outstanding debt denominated in a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar was $109.0 million at december 31, 2009 and $48.5 million at december 31, 2008. available-for-sale investments our available-for-sale investments, consisting of auction rate securities at december 31, 2009 and 2008, are exposed to market risk related to changes in conditions in the u.s. financial markets and in the financial condition of the issuers of these securities. our investment in auction rate securities at december 31, 2009 and 2008 had an original cost of $44.7 million (debt instruments of $24.7 million and non-cumulative 54 table of contents perpetual preferred stock of $20.0 million). as of december 31, 2009, the estimated fair value of our investments in auction rate securities was $13.7 million. these auction rate securities consisted of two contingent capital securities that were converted into perpetual preferred stock of ambac assurance corporation (ambac), the issuer, in december 2008, and three debt instruments issued individually by primus financial products llc (primus) (maturity date 2021), river lake insurance company (river lake), a wholly-owned subsidiary of genworth financial, inc. (maturity date 2033) and ballantyne re plc (ballantyne) (maturity date 2036). we received interest and dividend payments of $1.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2009 and $2.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. these five securities historically were re-auctioned every twenty-eight days, which had provided a liquid market for them. however, as a result of continuing liquidity concerns for these types of asset-backed securities, every auction held by the issuers for these auction rate securities since late 2007 has failed. we account for these investments as available-for-sale investments on a security-by-security basis and determine whether a decline in fair value below its cost is temporary or other than temporary. the objective of other than temporary impairment analysis under u.s. gaap is to determine whether the holder of an investment in a debt or equity security for which changes in fair value are not regularly recognized in earnings should recognize a loss in earnings when the investment is impaired. an investment is impaired if the fair value of the investment is less than its amortized cost. since august 2007, the estimated fair value of each of our investments in auction rate securities has been less than its original cost. as a result, we have recognized cumulative losses of $38.0 million ($23.8 million, net of taxes) through december 31, 2009 from the decline in market values from the securities' original cost. after considering impairment indicators under u.s. gaap and the declines in fair value, we determined that these investments were impaired. we evaluated the following factors in determining whether the impairment is temporary or other than temporary: the creditworthiness of the issuers and the timelines and level of interest payments received from the issuers; downgrades of credit ratings of all of the issuers; the severity of the decline in the estimated market value of the securities in 2008 and 2009; potential recovery of the investment value; ambac's december 2008 exercise of its put option to convert its asset backed capital commitment securities into non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock of ambac assurance (no maturity date); ambac's december 2008 cancellation of the dividend on its common stock; ambac's cancellation of the dividend on its non-cumulative preferred stock effective august 1, 2009; and the level of subordination of the ballantyne securities. based on the evaluations discussed above, we determined that the securities incurred other than temporary decline in fair market value. we also recorded $7.0 million of unrealized gains ($4.4 million, net of taxes) in 2009 in other comprehensive income related to an increase in the estimated fair value of the river lake securities, following their initial decline in value, which was primarily due to an improvement in river lake's credit spread. see note 13, "fair value measurements and other financial instruments," for details on the inputs and valuation methodology used to calculate the estimated fair value of these investments. we continue to monitor developments in the market for auction rate securities including the specific securities in which we have invested. at december 31, 2009, ratings of the securities held by us by moody's ranged from baa3 to unrated and ratings by standard &amp; poor's ranged from bbb to d. these ratings are among the ratings assigned by each of these organizations for investment and non-investment grade long-term unsecured debt. moreover, during the year ended december 31, 2009, we continued to receive all interest payments totaling $0.8 million on a timely basis from the issuers of the three debt securities, 55 table of contents effective august 1, 2009, ambac discontinued paying dividends on its perpetual preferred stock. during the year ended december 31, 2009, we received dividend payments totaling $0.3 million from ambac. if credit or liquidity conditions relating to these securities or the issuers worsen, we may recognize additional other than temporary impairments, which would result in the recognition of additional losses on our consolidated statement of operations. we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet our operating cash needs without the sale of these securities. customer credit we are exposed to credit risk from our customers. in the normal course of business we extend credit to our customers if they satisfy pre-defined credit criteria. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the failure of our customers to make required payments. an additional allowance may be required if the financial condition of our customers deteriorates. the allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that management assesses to be appropriate to absorb estimated losses in the accounts receivable portfolio. our customers may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. despite uncertainties surrounding global economic conditions and levels of credit risk since the second half of 2007, we have not experienced a significant adverse change in our customers' payment patterns or defaults. our provision for bad debt expense was $6 million in 2009, $9 million in 2008 and $3 million in 2007. pensions recent market conditions have resulted in an unusually high degree of volatility and increased risks and short-term liquidity concerns associated with some of the plan assets held by our defined benefit pension plans, which have impacted the performance of some of the plan assets. based upon the annual valuation of our defined benefit pension plans at december 31, 2009, we expect our net periodic benefit costs to be approximately $20 million in 2010, which is comparable to prior years' costs. see note 14, "profit sharing, retirement savings plans and defined benefit pension plans," of notes to consolidated financial statements for further details on our defined benefit pension plans. commodities we use various commodity raw materials such as plastic resins and energy products such as electric power and natural gas in conjunction with our manufacturing processes. generally, we acquire these components at market prices in the region in which they will be used and do not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. moreover, we seek to maintain appropriate levels of commodity raw material inventories thus minimizing the expense and risks of carrying excess inventories. we do not typically purchase substantial quantities in advance of production requirements. as a result, we are exposed to market risks related to changes in commodity prices of these components. 56 table of contentsrisk factors 8 cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 12 risk factors introduction investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. these are the most significant factors that make investing in the company risky; however, they are not the only factors that should be considered in making an investment decision. this annual report on form 10-k also contains and may incorporate by reference from the company proxy statement for its 2007 annual meeting of stockholders, or from exhibits, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. see the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements below. the company actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including the risks faced by the company described below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k or in documents incorporated by reference in this report. the company business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. the trading price of the company securities could decline due to any of these risks, and investors in the company securities may lose all or part of their investment. asbestos litigation and related litigation if the settlement of the asbestos claims that the company has agreed to is not implemented, the company will not be released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against it arising from a 1998 transaction with w. r. grace &amp; co. further, the company is a defendant in a lawsuit seeking class action status concerning the company public disclosures regarding these asbestos-related claims. the company is also a defendant in a number of asbestos-related actions in canada arising from grace activities in canada prior to 1998. on november 27, 2002, the company reached an agreement in principle with the official committee of asbestos personal injury claimants and the official committee of asbestos property damage claimants appointed to represent asbestos claimants in the w. r. grace &amp; co. bankruptcy case to resolve 8 all current and future asbestos-related claims made against the company and its affiliates. the settlement will also resolve the fraudulent transfer claims and successor liability claims, as well as indemnification claims by fresenius medical care holdings, inc. and affiliated companies in connection with the cryovac transaction. the cryovac transaction was a multi-step transaction, completed on march 31, 1998, which brought the cryovac packaging business and the former sealed air corporation business under the common ownership of the company. the parties to the agreement in principle signed a definitive settlement agreement as of november 10, 2003 consistent with the terms of the agreement in principle. on june 27, 2005, the u.s. bankruptcy court for the district of delaware, where the grace bankruptcy case is pending, signed an order approving the definitive settlement agreement. although grace is not a party to the settlement agreement, under the terms of the order, grace is directed to comply with the settlement agreement subject to limited exceptions. if the settlement agreement does not become effective, either because grace fails to emerge from bankruptcy or because grace does not emerge from bankruptcy with a plan of reorganization that is consistent with the terms of the settlement agreement, then the company will not be released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against the company and its affiliates noted above, and all of these claims would remain pending and would have to be resolved through other means, such as through agreement on alternative settlement terms or trials. in that case, the company could face liabilities that are significantly different from its obligations under the settlement agreement. the company cannot estimate at this time what those differences or their magnitude may be. in the event these liabilities are materially larger than the current existing obligations, they could have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition and results of operations. although grace filed a proposed plan of reorganization with the bankruptcy court in january 2005, the company cannot predict when a final plan of reorganization will become effective or whether the final plan will be consistent with the terms of the settlement agreement. the company is a defendant in the case of senn v. hickey, et al. (case no. 03-cv-4372) in the u.s. district court for the district of new jersey (newark). this lawsuit seeks class action status on behalf of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired securities of the company during the period from march 27, 2000 through july 30, 2002. the lawsuit names the company and five current and former officers and directors of the company as defendants. one of these individuals and the company remain as defendants after a partial grant of the defendants motion to dismiss the action. the plaintiff principal allegations against the defendants are that during the above period the defendants materially misled the investing public, artificially inflated the price of the company common stock by publicly issuing false and misleading statements and violated u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, or gaap, by failing to properly account and accrue for the company contingent liability for asbestos claims arising from past operations of grace. the plaintiffs seek compensatory damages and other relief. if the court determines that the company is liable in this case, the company could be required to pay substantial damages, which the company cannot estimate at this time and which could have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition and results of operations. on october 3, 2006, plaintiff filed a motion to certify a class of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired the securities of the company during the period from march 27, 2000 through july 30, 2002. on november 22, 2006, plaintiff filed an amended motion for class certification, seeking to withdraw as a class representative and the substitution of a new class representative, the state of louisiana municipal police employees retirement system. discovery concerning class certification and the merits is ongoing. since november 2004, the company and specified subsidiaries have been named as defendants in a number of cases, including a number of putative class actions, brought in canada as a result of grace alleged marketing, manufacturing or distributing of asbestos or asbestos-containing products in canada prior to the cryovac transaction. grace has agreed to defend and indemnify the company and its subsidiaries in these cases. the canadian cases are currently stayed, and grace proposed plan of reorganization provides for payment of these claims and enforcement of the plan of reorganization in the canadian courts. however, if grace final plan does not make the same provisions or if the canadian courts refuse to enforce grace final plan in the canadian courts, and if in addition grace is unwilling or 9 unable to defend and indemnify the company and its subsidiaries in these cases, then the company could be required to pay substantial damages, which the company cannot estimate at this time and which could have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition and results of operations. for further information concerning these matters, see note 16, commitments and contingencies, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which is contained in item 8 of part ii of this annual report on form 10-k, under asbestos settlement and related costs, cryovac transaction, and contingencies related to the cryovac transaction. raw materials and energy raw material pricing, availability and allocation by suppliers as well as other energy-related costs may negatively impact the company results of operations, including its profit margins. the company uses petrochemical-based raw materials to manufacture many of its food and protective packaging products. during most of 2006 petrochemical-based raw material and other energy-related costs increased, with oil futures setting a record high. this negatively impacted the company profit margins. continued increases in market demand for petrochemical-based raw materials and energy could increase costs for the company. natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers in the future. these factors could lead to increased prices for the company raw materials, curtailment of supplies and allocation of raw materials by the company suppliers, which could reduce revenues and profit margins and harm relations with the company customers and which could have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition and results of operations. animal and food-related health issues the effects of animal and food-related health issues such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy, also known as mad cow disease, foot-and-mouth disease and avian influenza or bird-flu, as well as other health issues affecting the food industry, may lead to decreased revenues for the company. the company manufactures and sells food packaging products, among other products. various health issues affecting the food industry have in the past and may in the future have a negative effect on the sales of food packaging products. during 2006, additional cases of mad cow disease were confirmed and incidents of bird flu have continued to surface in various countries. outbreaks of animal diseases such as mad cow or foot-and-mouth disease, for example, may lead governments to restrict exports and imports of potentially affected animals and food products, leading to decreased demand for the company products and possibly also to the culling or slaughter of significant numbers of the animal population otherwise intended for food supply. also, consumers may change their eating habits as a result of perceived problems with certain types of food. these restrictions and changes may lead to reduced sales of food packaging products by the company, which could have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition and results of operations. global operations the global nature of the company operations in the united states and in fifty foreign countries exposes it to numerous risks that could materially adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. 10 the company operates in the united states and in 50 other countries, and its products are distributed in those countries as well as in other parts of the world. the company continues to expand its global presence as net sales outside the united states in 2006 made up approximately 52% of the company total net sales. additionally the company has 73 manufacturing facilities and approximately 10,100 employees located outside the united states. as a result of its global operations, the company is exposed to economic, political, business and market conditions in the geographic areas in which it conducts business. changes in domestic or foreign laws, rules or regulations (such as the reach legislation discussed above in part i, item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k under environmental matters ), or governmental or agency actions can negatively affect the company ability to carry on its business. governments may impose restrictive or protective import/export requirements as well as other trade measures that may have a negative impact on the company. some of the countries in which the company subsidiaries operate have significantly different laws on the enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights. as a global entity, the company may also have greater exposure to the acts and effects of war or terrorism. the company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. the company may use financial instruments from time to time to manage exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, which use exposes the company to counterparty credit risk for nonperformance. additionally, some of the company subsidiaries may operate in countries that have highly inflationary economies. global manufacturing strategy the company has begun the first phase of a new global manufacturing strategy. the costs of the global manufacturing strategy could exceed the benefits if market forces or other factors negatively impact the execution and fulfillment of the strategy. the company has begun the first phase of a new global manufacturing strategy. this strategy includes an expansion of the company global production capabilities in developing markets around the world, as well as a realignment of its existing production into manufacturing centers of excellence. the goal of this multi-year program is to expand capacity in growing markets in developing countries, further improve the company operating efficiencies, lower its overall cost structure and implement new technologies more effectively. there are risks inherent in the undertaking of such a program, including the stability and sustainability of developing markets, shifts in customer preferences, competitive forces and technologies, cost overruns and unanticipated consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition and results of operations. reliance on subsidiaries the company subsidiaries hold substantially all of its assets and liabilities and conduct substantially all of its operations, and as a result the company relies on distributions or advances from its subsidiaries. the company conducts substantially all of its business through two direct wholly-owned subsidiaries, cryovac, inc. and sealed air corporation (us). these two subsidiaries directly and indirectly own substantially all of the assets of the company business and conduct operations themselves and through other subsidiaries around the globe. therefore, the company depends on distributions or advances from its subsidiaries to meet its debt service and other obligations and to pay dividends with respect to shares of its common stock. contractual provisions, laws or regulations to which the company or any of its subsidiaries may become subject, as well its subsidiaries financial condition and operating requirements, may reduce funds available for service of its indebtedness, dividends, and general corporate purposes. 11 volatility of stock price, volume sales and large holdings the price of the company common stock historically has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, which may make it difficult for investors to resell the common stock, and the sale of substantial amounts of the company common stock could adversely affect the price of the common stock. one shareholder has been identified as having sole voting and dispositive power with respect to 28,916,696 shares, or approximately 35.9%, of the company common stock, and another shareholder has been identified as having sole dispositive power with respect to 12,710,000 shares, or approximately 15.8%, of the company common stock. the market price of the company common stock historically has experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations similar to those experienced by the broader stock market in recent years. in addition, the company announcements of its quarterly operating results, future developments relating to the w. r. grace bankruptcy, additional asbestos or other litigation against the company, the effects of animal and food-related health issues, spikes in raw material and energy-related costs, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting the company, its affiliates or its competitors could cause the market price of the common stock to fluctuate substantially. the sale of substantial amounts of the company common stock could adversely affect its price. according to a schedule 13g/a filed with the securities and exchange commission, or sec, dated as of december 31, 2006, davis selected advisers, l.p. reported sole voting and dispositive power with respect to 28,916,696 shares, or approximately 35.9%, of the outstanding shares of the company common stock, and according to a schedule 13g/a filed with the sec, dated as of february 7, 2007, capital research and management company reported sole dispositive power with respect to 12,710,000 shares, or approximately 15.8%, of the company outstanding common stock. in addition, as of december 31, 2006, 2,072,874 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under the company contingent stock plan and directors stock plan. issuance of such reserved shares would cause dilution of stock holdings. moreover, as of december 31, 2006, nine million shares of the company common stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to the settlement of the asbestos litigation upon the effectiveness of a plan of reorganization in the bankruptcy of w. r. grace. the sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of the company common stock in the public market could adversely affect the price of the common stock. while the schedules 13g/a filed by davis selected advisers and capital research and management indicate that the referenced shares of the company common stock were not acquired for the purpose of changing or influencing the control of the company, if either stockholder were to change its purpose of holding the company common stock from investment to attempting to influence the management of the company, these concentrations of the company common stock could potentially negatively impact the company and the price of its common stock. cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements some of the company statements in this report, in documents incorporated by reference into this report and in the company future oral and written statements, may be forward-looking. these statements reflect the company beliefs and expectations as to future events and trends affecting the company business, its financial condition and its results of operations. these forward-looking statements are based upon the company current expectations concerning future events and discuss, among other things, anticipated future performance and future business plans. forward-looking statements are identified by such words and phrases as anticipates, believes, could be, estimates, expects, intends, plans to, will and similar expressions. forward-looking statements are necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside the control of the company, that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements. 12 in addition to the most significant risk factors described above, the following are important factors that the company believes could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the company forward-looking statements: legal and environmental proceedings, claims and matters involving the company; factors affecting the customers, industries and markets that use the company packaging materials and systems; competitive factors; changes in the company relationships with customers and suppliers; changes in tax rates, laws and regulations; changes in interest rates, credit availability and ratings; the company ability to hire, develop and retain talented employees worldwide; the company development and commercialization of successful new products; the company accomplishments in entering new markets and acquiring and integrating new businesses; the company access to financing and other sources of capital; the costs and success of the company key information systems projects; disruptions to data or voice networks; the magnitude and timing of the company capital expenditures and the ultimate value generated from those expenditures; the costs and results of any exit and disposal activities and restructuring programs that the company may undertake; the company working capital management proficiency; the effect on the company of new pronouncements by regulatory and accounting authorities; natural disasters, health crises, epidemics and pandemics; and the effects of potential federal asbestos legislation, if enacted. except as required by the federal securities laws, the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. shareholders equity the company shareholders equity was $1,654.8 million at december 31, 2006, $1,392.1 million at december 31, 2005 and $1,333.5 million at december 31, 2004. shareholders equity increased in 2006 primarily due to the following: net earnings of $274.1 million; a reduction in foreign currency translation adjustment of $99.0 million; and $31.8 million due to the impact of the company application of sab 108. see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. partially offset by; $55.8 million from the impact of the company adoption of sfas no. 158, employers accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for further information; repurchases of the company common stock, at a cost of $52.4 million; and dividends paid on common stock of $48.6 million. shareholders equity increased in 2005 principally due to the following: net earnings of $255.8 million; partially offset by; repurchases of the company common stock, at a cost of $116.4 million; and 43 an increase in foreign currency translation adjustment of $91.9 million. recently issued statements of financial accounting standards, accounting guidance and disclosure requirements the company is subject to numerous recently issued statements of financial accounting standards, accounting guidance and disclosure requirements. note 22, new accounting pronouncements recently issued statements of financial accounting standards, accounting guidance and disclosure requirements, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which is contained in item 8 of part ii of this annual report on form 10-k, describes these new accounting pronouncements and is incorporated herein by reference. critical accounting policies and estimates the company discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon its consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states of america, known as us gaap. the preparation of financial statements in conformity with us gaap requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. estimates and assumptions are evaluated on an ongoing basis and are based on historical and other factors believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. the results of these estimates may form the basis of the carrying value of assets and liabilities and may not be readily apparent from other sources. actual results, under conditions and circumstances different from those assumed, may differ from estimates, and while any differences may be material to the company consolidated financial statements, the company does not believe that the differences, taken as a whole, will be material. the company believes the following accounting policies are critical to its business operations and the understanding of results of operations and affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements: accounts receivable in the normal course of business, the company extends credit to customers that satisfy pre-defined credit criteria. accounts receivable, as shown on the consolidated balance sheets, are net of allowances for doubtful accounts. the company maintains accounts receivable allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. additional allowances may be required if the financial condition of the company customers deteriorates. commitments and contingencies litigation on an ongoing basis, the company assesses the potential liabilities related to any lawsuits or claims brought against it. while it is typically very difficult to determine the timing and ultimate outcome of these actions, the company uses its best judgment to determine if it is probable that it will incur an expense related to the settlement or final adjudication of these matters and whether a reasonable estimation of the probable loss, if any, can be made. in assessing probable losses, the company makes estimates of the amount of insurance recoveries, if any. the company accrues a liability when it believes a loss is probable and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. due to the inherent uncertainties related to the eventual outcome of litigation and potential insurance recovery, it is possible that disputed matters may be resolved for amounts materially different from any provisions or disclosures that the company has previously made. the company expenses legal costs, including those legal costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency, as incurred. impairment of long-lived assets the company periodically reviews long-lived assets, other than goodwill, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. goodwill, in accordance with sfas no. 142, is reviewed for possible impairment at least annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. a review of goodwill 44 may be initiated prior to conducting the annual analysis if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired. assumptions and estimates used in the determination of impairment losses, such as future cash flows and disposition costs, may affect the carrying value of long-lived assets and possible impairment expense in the company consolidated financial statements. self-insurance the company retains the obligation for specified claims and losses related to property, casualty, workers compensation and employee benefit claims. the company accrues for outstanding reported claims, claims that have been incurred but not reported, and projected claims based upon management estimates of the aggregate liability for uninsured claims using historical experience, insurance company estimates and the estimated trends in claim values. although management believes it has the ability to adequately project and record estimated claim payments, actual results could differ significantly from the recorded liabilities. pensions the company maintains a non-contributory profit sharing plan and contributory thrift and retirement savings plan in which most u.s. employees of the company are eligible to participate. for a limited number of its u.s. employees and for some of its non-u.s. employees, the company maintains defined benefit pension plans. the company accounts for these pension plans in accordance with sfas no. 158, employers accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. under this accounting standard, the company makes assumptions regarding the valuation of benefit obligations and performance of plan assets. the principal assumptions concern the discount rate used to measure future obligations, the expected future rate of return on plan assets, the expected rate of future compensation increases and various other actuarial assumptions. the measurement date used to determine the benefit obligations and the plan assets is december 31. in general, changes to these assumptions could have a significant impact on the costs and liabilities recorded under sfas no. 158. income taxes the company deferred tax assets arise from net deductible temporary differences and tax benefit carry forwards. the company evaluates whether its taxable earnings during the periods when the temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets become deductible or when tax benefit carry forwards may be utilized should be sufficient to realize the related future income tax benefits. for those jurisdictions where the expiration dates of tax benefit carry forwards or the projected taxable earnings indicate that realization is not likely, the company provides a valuation allowance. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, the company estimates future taxable earnings, with consideration for the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies and the realizability of tax benefit carry forwards, to determine which deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized in the future. valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets can be impacted by changes to tax laws, changes to statutory tax rates and future taxable earnings. in the event that actual results differ from these estimates in future periods, the company may need to adjust the valuation allowance, which could materially impact the company consolidated financial statements. in calculating its worldwide provision for income taxes, the company also evaluates its tax positions for years where the statutes of limitations have not expired. based on this review, the company may establish reserves for additional taxes and interest that could be assessed upon examination by relevant tax authorities. the company adjusts these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, including the results of tax audits and changes in tax law. educational donation during the second quarter of 2006, the company donated $1.5 million to the harvard business school in partial funding of a professorship in the name of t. j. dermot dunphy. mr. dunphy, a director of the company, was chief executive officer of the company from march 1971 until his retirement in february 2000. he received a master degree in business administration from the school in 1956. 45 non-gaap information the company management from time to time presents information that does not conform to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, including changes in net sales excluding the effects of foreign currency translation. the company management uses changes in net sales excluding the effects of foreign currency translation to measure the performance of the company operations. thus, management believes that this information may be useful to investors. such measures are also among the criteria upon which performance-based compensation may be determined. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices, which may adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. the company seeks to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rates from time to time, the company may use interest rate swaps, collars or options to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. the company interest rate swaps are described in note 11, derivatives and hedging activities, of the notes to the company consolidated financial statements, which is contained in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k and in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps contained in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k. at december 31, 2006 and 2005, the company had no collars or options outstanding. at december 31, 2006 and 2005, the carrying value of the company total debt, which includes the impact of outstanding interest rate swaps, was $1,852.3 million and $2,076.2 million, respectively. the company fixed rate debt at december 31, 2006 and 2005, including the impact of interest rate swaps, was $1,531.4 million and $1,767.7 million, respectively. the fair value of the company fixed rate debt varies with changes in interest rates. generally, the fair value of fixed rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the estimated fair value of the company total debt, including the impact of outstanding interest rate swaps, was $1,885.9 million at december 31, 2006 compared with $2,135.7 million at december 31, 2005. a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates would result in an increase in the fair value of the total debt balance at december 31, 2006 of $81.6 million. these changes in the fair value of the company fixed rate debt do not alter the company obligations to repay the outstanding principal amount of such debt. foreign exchange rates the company uses foreign currency forward contracts to fix the amount payable on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates at december 31, 2006 would have caused the company to pay approximately $20.7 million to terminate these contracts. the company foreign currency forward contracts are described in note 11, derivatives and hedging activities, of the notes to the company consolidated financial statements, which is contained in part ii, item 8 and in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources derivative financial instruments foreign currency forward contracts contained in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k. 46 the company may use other derivative instruments from time to time, such as foreign exchange options to manage exposure due to foreign exchange rates and interest rate and currency swaps related to access to additional sources of international financing. these instruments can potentially limit foreign exchange exposure and limit or adjust interest rate exposure by swapping borrowings denominated in one currency for borrowings denominated in another currency. at december 31, 2006 and 2005, the company had no foreign exchange options or interest rate and currency swap agreements outstanding. the company outstanding debt is generally denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing subsidiary. the company believes that this enables it to better match operating cash flows with debt service requirements and to better match the currency of assets and liabilities. the amount of outstanding debt denominated in a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar was $34.4 million and $262.8 million at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. the decrease in 2006 compared with 2005 was due to the maturity of the company 5.625% euro notes with a face value of 200.0 million as discussed above. commodities the company uses various commodity raw materials such as plastic resins and energy products such as electric power and natural gas in conjunction with its manufacturing processes. generally, the company acquires these components at market prices and does not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. moreover, the company supply chain team seeks to maintain appropriate levels of commodity raw material inventories thus minimizing the expense and risks of carrying excess inventories. the company does not typically purchase substantial quantities in advance of production requirements. as a result, the company is exposed to market risks related to changes in commodity prices of these components. 47risk factors 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in the conditions in the global financial markets, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices and the creditworthiness of our customers and suppliers, which may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we seek to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. we do not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rates from time to time, we may use interest rate swaps, collars or options to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. at december 31, 2011, we had outstanding interest rate swaps, but no outstanding collars or options. the information set forth in item 8 of part ii of this annual report on form 10-k in note 12, derivatives and hedging activities, under the caption interest rate swaps is incorporated herein by reference. see note 13, fair value measurements and other financial instruments, for details of the methodology and inputs used to determine the fair value of our fixed rate debt. the fair value of our fixed rate debt varies with changes in interest rates. generally, the fair value of fixed rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease of $111 million in the fair value of the total debt balance at december 31, 2011. these changes in the fair value of our fixed rate debt do not alter our obligations to repay the outstanding principal amount or any related interest of such debt. foreign exchange rates operations as a large global organization, we face exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could materially impact our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in the future. see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, above for the impacts foreign currency translation had on our operations. 61 table of contents venezuela economic events in venezuela have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risk. effective january 1, 2010, venezuela was designated a highly inflationary economy under u.s. gaap, and the u.s. dollar replaced the bolivar fuerte as the functional currency for our subsidiaries in venezuela. accordingly, all bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities were re-measured into u.s. dollars using the then current exchange rate available to us, and any changes in the exchange rate were reflected in foreign currency exchange gains and losses related to our venezuelan subsidiaries on the consolidated statement of operations. as a result of the changes in the exchange rates upon settlement of bolivar-denominated transactions and upon the remeasurement of our venezuelan subsidiaries financial statements, we recognized nominal net losses for the year ended december 31, 2011 and net gains of $6 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. for the year ended december 31, 2011, less than 1% of our consolidated net sales were derived from our businesses in venezuela and approximately 2% of our consolidated operating profit was derived from our businesses in venezuela. the potential future impact to our consolidated financial condition and results of operations for bolivar-denominated transactions will depend on our access to u.s. dollars and on the exchange rates in effect when we enter into, remeasure and settle transactions. therefore, it is difficult to predict the future impact until each transaction settles at its applicable exchange rate or gets remeasured into u.s. dollars. foreign currency forward contracts we use foreign currency forward contracts to fix the amounts payable or receivable on some transactions denominated in foreign currencies. a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates at december 31, 2011 would have caused us to pay approximately $61 million to terminate these contracts. based on our overall foreign exchange exposure, we estimate this change would not materially affect our financial position and liquidity. the effect on our results of operations would be substantially offset by the impact of the hedged items. our foreign currency forward contracts are described in note 12, derivatives and hedging activities, which is contained in part ii, item 8, and in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources derivative financial instruments foreign currency forward contracts, contained in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k, which information is incorporated herein by reference. we may use other derivative instruments from time to time, such as foreign exchange options to manage exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rate and currency swaps related to certain financing transactions. these instruments can potentially limit foreign exchange exposure and limit or adjust interest rate exposure by swapping borrowings denominated in one currency for borrowings denominated in another currency. at december 31, 2011, we had no foreign exchange options or interest rate and currency swap agreements outstanding. outstanding debt our outstanding debt is generally denominated in the functional currency of the borrower. we believe that this enables us to better match operating cash flows with debt service requirements and to better match the currency of assets and liabilities. the amount of outstanding debt denominated in a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar was $674 million at december 31, 2011 and $26 million at december 31, 2010. customer credit we are exposed to credit risk from our customers. in the normal course of business we extend credit to our customers if they satisfy pre-defined credit criteria. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the failure of our customers to make required payments. an additional allowance may be required if the financial condition of our customers deteriorates. the allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that management assesses to be appropriate to absorb estimated losses in the accounts receivable portfolio. 62 table of contents our customers may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. our provision for bad debt expense was $9 million in 2011, $7 million in 2010 and $6 million in 2009. the allowance for doubtful accounts was $16 million at december 31, 2011 and $17 million at december 31, 2010. pensions recent market conditions have resulted in an unusually high degree of volatility and increased risks and short-term liquidity concerns associated with some of the plan assets held by our defined benefit pension plans, which have impacted the performance of some of the plan assets. based upon the annual valuation of our defined benefit pension plans at december 31, 2011, we expect our net periodic benefit costs to be approximately $21 million in 2012. see note 14, profit sharing, retirement savings plans and defined benefit pension plans, for further details on our defined benefit pension plans. commodities we use various commodity raw materials such as plastic resins and other chemicals and energy products such as electric power and natural gas in conjunction with our manufacturing processes. generally, we acquire these components at market prices in the region in which they will be used and do not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. moreover, we seek to maintain appropriate levels of commodity raw material inventories thus minimizing the expense and risks of carrying excess inventories. we do not typically purchase substantial quantities in advance of production requirements. as a result, we are exposed to market risks related to changes in commodity prices of these components. 63 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors, of this annual report on form 10-k, which information is incorporated herein by reference. information on the impact of currency exchange on our consolidated financial statements appears in part ii, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. financial information showing net sales and total long-lived assets by geographic region for each of the three years ended december 31, 2012 appears in note 4, segments, which information is incorporated herein by reference. we maintain programs to comply with the various laws, rules and regulations related to the protection of the environment that we may be subject to in the many countries in which we operate. see environmental matters, below. employees as of december 31, 2012, we had approximately 25,000 employees worldwide. approximately 7,000 of these employees were in the u.s., with approximately 150 of these employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. of the approximately 18,000 employees who were outside the u.s., approximately 5,800 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. outside of the u.s., many of the covered employees are represented by works councils or industrial boards, as is customary in the jurisdictions in which they are employed. we believe that our employee relations are satisfactory. marketing, distribution and customers at december 31, 2012, we employed approximately 8,400 sales, marketing and customer service personnel throughout the world who sell and market our products to and through a large number of distributors, fabricators, converters, e-commerce and mail order fulfillment firms, and contract packaging firms as well as directly to end-users such as food processors, foodservice businesses, supermarket retailers, lodging, retail, pharmaceutical companies, health care facilities, medical device manufacturers, and other manufacturers. to support our f&amp;b and new ventures customers, we operate three packforum &reg; innovation and learning centers that are located in the u.s., france, and china. at packforum &reg; centers, we assist customers in identifying the appropriate packaging materials and systems to meet their needs. we also offer ideation services, educational seminars, employee training and customized graphic design services to our customers. to assist our marketing efforts for our protective packaging products and to provide specialized customer services, we operate 30 industrial package design centers (pdc s) worldwide within our facilities. these pdc are staffed with professional packaging engineers and outfitted with drop-testing and other equipment used to develop, test and validate cost-effective package designs to meet each protective packaging customer needs. to support our equipment systems and the marketing of our totals systems solutions, we provide field technical services to our customers worldwide. these services include system installation, integration and monitoring systems, repair and upgrade, operator training in the efficient use of our systems, qualification of various consumable and system combinations, and equipment layout and design. for our medical application customers, we offer two cleanroom contract assembly and packaging facilities in two countries, as well as a packaging validation lab. our f&amp;b applications are largely sold direct, while our most of our protective packaging products and a portion of our i&amp;l products and solutions are sold through business supply distributors. we have no material long-term contracts for the distribution of our products. in 2012, no customer or affiliated group of customers accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales. seasonality historically, net sales in our f&amp;b segment have tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter, due to holiday events. net sales in our i&amp;l segment have tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter, second quarter sales represent a modest seasonal increase due to higher occupancy rates in european lodging, and the third and fourth quarters of the year are relatively the same level as the second quarter. net sales in our protective packaging segment have also tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and higher in the mid-third quarter and through the fourth quarter due to the holiday shopping season. on a consolidated basis, there is little seasonality in the business, with net sales slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter. our consolidated net earnings typically trend directionally the same as our net sales seasonality. cash flow from operations has tended to be lower in the first quarter and higher in the fourth quarter, reflecting seasonality of sales and working capital changes, including the timing of certain annual incentive compensation payments. other factors may outweigh the effects of seasonal changes in our net earnings results including, but not limited to, changes in raw materials and other costs, foreign exchange rates, interest rates, taxes and the timing and amount of acquisition synergies and restructuring and other non-recurring charges. 7 table of contents competition competition for most of our packaging products is based primarily on packaging performance characteristics, service and price. there are also other companies producing competing products that are well-established. since competition is also based upon innovations in packaging technology, we maintain ongoing research and development programs to enable us to maintain technological leadership. we invest approximately double the industry average on research and development as a percentage of net sales per year as compared with our packaging peers. there are other manufacturers of f&amp;b products, some of which are companies offering similar products that operate across regions and others that operate in a single region or single country. competing manufacturers produce a wide variety of food packaging based on plastic, metals and other materials. we believe that we are one of the leading suppliers of (i) flexible food packaging materials and related systems in the principal geographic areas in which we offer those products, (ii) barrier trays for case-ready meat products in the principal geographic areas in which we offers those trays, and (iii) absorbent pads for food products to supermarkets and to meat and poultry processors in the united states. our f&amp;b hygiene solutions and i&amp;l solutions face a wide spectrum of competitors across each product category. competition is both global and regional in scope and includes numerous small, local competitors with limited product portfolios and geographic reach. we compete globally on premium product offerings and application expertise, innovative product and dispensing equipment offerings, value-added solution delivery, and strong customer service and support. we differentiate our offerings from competitors by becoming the preferred partner to our customers, and by providing innovative, industry-leading products to make their facilities safer and healthier for both maintenance staff and building occupants. we believe our integrated solutions approach, which includes the supply of machines, tools, chemicals, processes and training to customers to drive productivity improvements, reduces risk of food safety events and improve infection control to reduce health care acquired infections, is a unique competitive strength. additionally, the quality, ease of use and environmental profile of our products are unique and have helped support long-standing, profitable relationships with many top customers. our protective packaging products compete with similar products made by other manufacturers and with a number of other packaging materials that customers use to provide protection against damage to their products during shipment and storage. among the competitive materials are various forms of paper packaging products, expanded plastics, corrugated die cuts, strapping, envelopes, reinforced bags, boxes and other containers, and various corrugated materials, as well as various types of molded foam plastics, fabricated foam plastics, mechanical shock mounts, and wood blocking and bracing systems. we believe that we are one of the leading suppliers of air cellular cushioning materials containing a barrier layer, inflatable packaging, suspension and retention packaging, shrink films for industrial and commercial applications, protective mailers, polyethylene foam and polyurethane foam packaging systems in the principal geographic areas in which we sell these products. competition for most of our medical applications products is based primarily on performance characteristics, service and price. technical design capability is an additional competitive factor for the rigid packaging offered by the medical applications business. raw materials and sourcing suppliers provide raw materials, packaging components, equipment, accessories and contract manufactured goods. our principal raw materials are polyolefin and other petrochemical-based resins and films, caustic soda, solvents, waxes, phosphates, surfactants, chelates, fragrances and paper and wood pulp products. these raw materials represent approximately 40% of our consolidated cost of sales. we also purchase corrugated materials, cores for rolls of products such as films and bubble wrap &reg; brand cushioning, inks for printed materials, bag-in-the-box containers, bottles, drums, pails, totes, aerosol cans, caps, triggers, valves, and blowing agents used in the expansion of foam packaging products. in addition, we offer a wide variety of specialized packaging equipment, some of which we manufacture or have manufactured to our specifications, some of which we assemble and some of which we purchase from suppliers. equipment and accessories include industrial and food packaging equipment, dilution-control warewashing and laundry equipment, floor care machines and items used in the maintenance of a facility such as air care dispensers, floor care applicators, microfiber mops and cloths, buckets, carts and other cleaning tools and utensils. the vast majority of the raw materials required for the manufacture of our products and all components related to our equipment and accessories generally have been readily available on the open market, in most cases are available from several suppliers and are available in amounts sufficient to meet our manufacturing requirements. however, we have some sole-source suppliers, and the lack of availability of supplies could have a material negative impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers and suppliers of other raw materials. due to by-product/co-product chemical relationships to the automotive and housing markets, several materials may become difficult to source. these factors could lead to increased prices for our raw materials, curtailment of supplies and allocation of raw materials by our suppliers. we source some materials used in our packaging products from materials recycled in our manufacturing operations or obtained through participation in recycling programs. although we purchase some raw materials under long-term supply arrangements with third parties, these arrangements follow market forces and are in line with our overall global sourcing strategy, which seeks to balance the cost of acquisition and availability of supply. we have a centralized supply chain organization, which includes the centralized management of procurement and logistic activities. our objective is to leverage our global scale to achieve sourcing efficiencies and reduce our total delivered cost across all our regions. we do this while adhering to strategic performance metrics and stringent sourcing practices. research and development activities we maintain a continuing effort to develop new products and improve our existing products and processes, including developing new packaging, non-packaging and chemical equipment and applications using our intellectual property. from time to time, we also acquire and commercialize new packaging and other products or techniques developed by others. our research and development projects rely on our technical capabilities in the areas of food science, materials science, chemistry, package design and equipment engineering. our research and development expense was $135 million in 2012, $105 million in 2011 and $88 million in 2010. our research and development activities are focused on end-use application. as a result, we operate: two food science laboratories located in the u.s. and italy; 30 industrial package design centers worldwide, which are located within our protective packaging facilities. these centers develop, test and validate cost-effective package designs; six research and development laboratories focused on the development of cleaning and sanitation formulations, which are located in the u.s., germany, the netherlands, switzerland, india and brazil; eight equipment design centers in the u.s., germany, switzerland and the u.k. that focus on equipment and parts design and innovation to support the development of comprehensive systems solutions; two medical rigids packaging design centers in the u.s. and the netherlands; and one medical device packaging validation laboratory in the netherlands. 8 table of contents patents and trademarks we are the owner or licensee of an aggregate of over 4,900 united states and foreign patents and patent applications, as well as an aggregate of over 9,300 united states and foreign trademark registrations and trademark applications that relate to many of our products, manufacturing processes and equipment. we believe that our patents and trademarks collectively provide a competitive advantage. as such, each year we continue to file, in the aggregate, an average of 320 united states and foreign patent applications and 325 united states and foreign trademark applications. none of our reportable segments is dependent upon any single patent or trademark alone. rather, we believe that our success depends primarily on our sales and service, marketing, engineering and manufacturing skills and on our ongoing research and development efforts. we believe that the expiration or unenforceability of any of our patents, applications, licenses or trademark registrations would not be material to our business or consolidated financial condition. environmental, health and safety matters as a manufacturer, we are subject to various laws, rules and regulations in the countries, jurisdictions and localities in which we operate. these cover: the safe storage and use of raw materials and production chemicals; the release of materials into the environment; standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; or otherwise relate to the protection of the environment. we review environmental, health and safety laws and regulations pertaining to our operations and believe that compliance with current environmental and workplace health and safety laws and regulations has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures or consolidated financial condition. in some jurisdictions in which our packaging products are sold or used, laws and regulations have been adopted or proposed that seek to regulate, among other things, minimum levels of recycled or reprocessed content and, more generally, the sale or disposal of packaging materials. in addition, customer demand continues to evolve for packaging materials that incorporate renewable materials or that are otherwise viewed as being environmentally sound. our new venture activities, described above, include the development of packaging products from renewable resources. we maintain programs designed to comply with these laws and regulations, to monitor their evolution, and to meet this customer demand. one advantage inherent in many of our products is that thin, lightweight packaging solutions reduce waste and transportation costs in comparison to available alternatives. we continue to evaluate and implement new technologies in this area as they become available. various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations regulate some of our products and require us to register certain products and comply with specified requirements. in the united states, we must register our sanitizing and disinfecting products with the u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ). we are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that regulate products manufactured and sold by us for controlling microbial growth on humans, animals and processed foods. in the united states, these requirements are generally administered by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ). to date, the cost of complying with product registration requirements and fda compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we also support our customers interests in eliminating waste by offering or participating in collection programs for some of our products or product packaging and for materials used in some of our products. when possible, materials collected through these programs are reprocessed and either reused in our protective packaging operations or offered to other manufacturers for use in other products. in addition, gains that we have made in internal recycling programs have allowed us to improve our net raw material yield, thus mitigating the impact of resin costs, while lowering solid waste disposal costs and controlling environmental liability risks associated with waste disposal. our emphasis on environmental, health and safety compliance provides us with risk reduction opportunities and cost savings through asset protection and protection of employees. our website, www.sealedair.com, contains additional detailed information about our corporate citizenship initiatives. available information our internet address is www.sealedair.com. we make available, free of charge, on or through our website at www.sealedair.com , our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports that we file or furnish pursuant to sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, or the exchange act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or furnish them to, the securities and exchange commission. item 1a. risk factors introduction the risks described below should be carefully considered before making an investment decision. these are the most significant risk factors, but they are not the only risk factors that should be considered in making an investment decision. this form 10-k also contains and may incorporate by reference forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. see the cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements, in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. the trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks, and investors in our securities may lose all or part of their investment. weakened global economic conditions have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. weakened global economic conditions have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business in the form of lower net sales due to weakened demand, unfavorable changes in product price/mix, or lower profit margins. for example, the recent global economic downturn has adversely impacted some of our end-users and customers, such as food processors, distributors, supermarket retailers, hotels, restaurants, retail establishments, other retailers, business service contractors and e-commerce and mail order fulfillment firms, and other end-users that are particularly sensitive to business and consumer spending. during economic downturns or recessions, there can be a heightened competition for sales and increased pressure to reduce selling prices as our customers may reduce their volume of purchases from us. if we lose significant sales volume or reduce selling prices significantly, then there could be a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations, profitability and cash flows. also, reduced availability of credit may adversely affect the ability of some of our customers and suppliers to obtain funds for operations and capital expenditures. this could negatively impact our ability to obtain necessary supplies as well as our sales of materials and equipment to affected customers. this also could result in reduced or delayed collections of outstanding accounts receivable. 9 table of contents the global nature of our operations exposes us to numerous risks that could materially adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we operate in 62 countries, and our products are distributed in those countries as well as in other parts of the world. a large portion of our manufacturing operations are located outside of the united states and a majority of our net sales are generated outside of the united states. operations outside of the united states, particularly operations in developing regions, are subject to various risks that may not be present or as significant for our u.s. operations. economic uncertainty in some of the geographic regions in which we operate, including developing regions, could result in the disruption of commerce and negatively impact cash flows from our operations in those areas. risks inherent in our international operations include: foreign currency exchange controls and tax rates; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including devaluations; the potential for changes in regional and local economic conditions, including local inflationary pressures; restrictive governmental actions such as those on transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection matters, including antidumping duties, tariffs, embargoes and prohibitions or restrictions on acquisitions or joint ventures; changes in laws and regulations, including the laws and policies of the united states affecting trade and foreign investment; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; variations in protection of intellectual property and other legal rights; more expansive legal rights of foreign unions or works councils; changes in labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; social plans that prohibit or increase the cost of certain restructuring actions; the potential for nationalization of enterprises or facilities; and unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against u.s. or other interests. in addition, there are potential tax inefficiencies and tax costs in repatriating funds from our non-u.s. subsidiaries. these and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if the settlement agreement (as defined in note 18, commitments and contingencies ) is not implemented, we will not be released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against us arising from a 1998 transaction with grace (as defined below). we do not control the timing of the cash payment required from us under the settlement agreement. we are also a defendant in a number of asbestos-related actions in canada arising from grace activities in canada prior to the 1998 transaction. on march 31, 1998, sealed air completed a multi-step transaction (the cryovac transaction ) involving w.r. grace &amp; co. ( grace ) which brought the cryovac packaging business and the former sealed air business under the common ownership of the company. as part of that transaction, grace and its subsidiaries retained all liabilities arising out of their operations before the cryovac transaction (including asbestos-related liabilities), other than liabilities relating to cryovac operations, and agreed to indemnify the company with respect to such retained liabilities. since 2000, the company has been served with a number of lawsuits alleging that, as a result of the cryovac transaction, the company is responsible for the alleged asbestos liabilities of grace and its subsidiaries. while they vary, these suits all appear to allege that the transfer of the cryovac business was a fraudulent transfer or gave rise to successor liability. on april 2, 2001, grace and certain of its subsidiaries filed for chapter 11 relief in the u.s. bankruptcy court for the district of delaware (the bankruptcy court ). in connection with grace chapter 11 case, the bankruptcy court issued orders dated may 3, 2001 and january 22, 2002, staying all asbestos actions against the company. however, the official committees appointed to represent asbestos claimants in grace chapter 11 case (the committees ) received the court permission to pursue fraudulent transfer and other claims against the company and its subsidiary cryovac, inc. based upon the cryovac transaction. this proceeding was brought in the u.s. district court for the district of delaware (the district court ) (adv. no. 02-02210). on november 27, 2002, we reached an agreement in principle with the committees to resolve the fraudulent transfer proceeding and all current and future asbestos-related claims made against us and our affiliates in connection with the cryovac transaction. the settlement agreement will also resolve the fraudulent transfer claims and successor liability claims, as well as indemnification claims by fresenius medical care holdings, inc. and affiliated companies in connection with the cryovac transaction. the parties to the agreement in principle signed the definitive settlement agreement as of november 10, 2003 consistent with the terms of the agreement in principle. on june 27, 2005, the bankruptcy court signed an order approving the definitive settlement agreement. although grace is not a party to the settlement agreement, under the terms of the order, grace is directed to comply with the settlement agreement subject to limited exceptions. on september 19, 2008, grace, the official committee of asbestos personal injury claimants, the asbestos pi future claimants representative, and the official committee of equity security holders (the equity committee ) filed, as co-proponents, a plan of reorganization (as filed and amended from time to time, the pi settlement plan ) and several exhibits and associated documents, including a disclosure statement, with the bankruptcy court. as filed, the pi settlement plan would provide for the establishment of two asbestos trusts under section 524(g) of the united states bankruptcy code to which present and future asbestos-related claims would be channeled. the pi settlement plan also contemplates that the terms of our definitive settlement agreement will be incorporated into the pi settlement plan and that we will pay the amount contemplated by that agreement. on january 31, 2011, the bankruptcy court entered a memorandum opinion (the bankruptcy court opinion ) overruling certain objections to the pi settlement plan. on the same date, the bankruptcy court entered an order regarding confirmation of the pi settlement plan (the bankruptcy court confirmation order ). as entered on january 31, 2011, the bankruptcy court confirmation order contained recommended findings of fact and conclusions of law, and recommended that the district court approve the confirmation order, and that the district court confirm the pi settlement plan and issue a channeling injunction under section 524(g) of the bankruptcy code. thereafter, on february 15, 2011, the bankruptcy court issued an order clarifying the bankruptcy court opinion and the bankruptcy court confirmation order (the clarifying order ). among other things, the clarifying order provided that any references in the bankruptcy court opinion and the bankruptcy court confirmation order to a recommendation that the district court confirm the pi settlement plan were thereby amended to make clear that the pi settlement plan was confirmed and that the bankruptcy court was requesting that the district court issue and affirm the confirmation order including the injunction under section 524(g) of the bankruptcy code. on march 11, 2011, the bankruptcy court entered an order granting in part and denying in part a motion to reconsider the bankruptcy court opinion filed by bnsf railway company (the march 11 order ). among other things, the march 11 order amended the bankruptcy court opinion to clarify certain matters relating to objections to the pi settlement plan filed by bnsf. 10 table of contents various parties appealed or otherwise challenged the bankruptcy court opinion and the bankruptcy court confirmation order, including without limitation with respect to issues relating to releases and injunctions contained in the pi settlement plan. on january 30, 2012, the district court issued a memorandum opinion (the original district court opinion ) and confirmation order (the original district court confirmation order ) overruling all objections to the pi settlement plan and confirming the pi settlement plan in its entirety (including the issuance of the injunction under section 524(g) of the bankruptcy code). on february 3, 2012, garlock sealing technologies llc ( garlock ) filed a motion (the garlock reargument motion ) with the district court requesting that the district court grant reargument, rehearing, or otherwise amend the original district court opinion and the original district court confirmation order insofar as they overruled garlock objections to the pi settlement plan. on february 13, 2012, the company, cryovac, and fresenius medical care holdings, inc. filed a joint motion (the sealed air/fresenius motion ) with the district court. the sealed air/fresenius motion did not seek to disturb confirmation of the pi settlement plan but requested that the district court amend and clarify certain matters in the original district court opinion and the original district court confirmation order. also on february 13, 2012, grace and the other proponents of the pi settlement plan filed a motion (the plan proponents motion ) with the district court requesting certain of the same amendments and clarifications sought by the sealed air/fresenius motion. on february 27, 2012, certain asbestos claimants known as the libby claimants filed a response to the sealed air/fresenius motion and the plan proponents motion (the libby response ). the libby response did not oppose the sealed air/fresenius motion or the plan proponents motion but indicated, among other things, that: (a) the libby claimants had reached a settlement in principle of their objections to the pi settlement plan but that this settlement had not become effective and (b) the libby claimants reserved their rights with respect to the pi settlement plan pending the effectiveness of the libby claimants settlement. on april 20, 2012, as part of a more global settlement, grace filed a motion with the bankruptcy court seeking, among other things, approval of settlements with the libby claimants and bnsf. the settlements with the libby claimants and bnsf were approved by order of the bankruptcy court dated june 6, 2012. thereafter, the appeals of the libby claimants and bnsf with respect to the pi settlement plan were dismissed by orders of the united states court of appeals for the third circuit (the third circuit court of appeals ) dated september 24, 2012 and october 4, 2012. the district court held a hearing on may 8, 2012, to consider the garlock reargument motion. on may 29, 2012, anderson memorial hospital ( anderson memorial ) filed a motion seeking relief from, and reconsideration of, the original district court opinion and the original district court confirmation order (the anderson relief motion ). in the anderson relief motion, anderson memorial argued that a may 18, 2012, decision by the third circuit court of appeals in a case called wright v. owens-corning undermined the district court conclusion that (a) the pi settlement plan was feasible and (b) the asbestos property damage injunction and trust included in the pi settlement plan were appropriate. objections to the anderson relief motion were filed by grace and the other proponents of the pi settlement plan, and by the representative of future asbestos property damage claimants appointed in the grace bankruptcy proceedings. on june 11, 2012, the district court entered a consolidated order (the consolidated order ) granting the sealed air/fresenius motion, the plan proponents motion, and the garlock reargument motion, and providing for amendments to the original district court opinion and the original district court confirmation order. although the consolidated order granted the garlock reargument motion, it did not constitute the district court agreement with garlock objections to the pi settlement plan, which the district court continued to overrule. also on june 11, 2012, the district court entered an amended memorandum opinion (the amended district court opinion ) and confirmation order (the amended district court confirmation order ) overruling all objections to the pi settlement plan, reflecting amendments described in the consolidated order, and confirming the pi settlement plan in its entirety (including the issuance of the injunction under section 524(g) of the bankruptcy code). thereafter, on july 23, 2012, the district court issued a memorandum opinion and an order denying the anderson relief motion. parties have appealed the amended district court opinion and the amended district court confirmation order to the third circuit court of appeals. if it becomes effective, the pi settlement plan may implement the terms of the settlement agreement, but there can be no assurance that this will be the case notwithstanding the confirmation of the pi settlement plan by the bankruptcy court and the district court. the terms of the pi settlement plan remain subject to amendment. moreover, the pi settlement plan is subject to the satisfaction of a number of conditions which are more fully set forth in the pi settlement plan and include, without limitation, the availability of exit financing and the approval of the pi settlement plan becoming final and no longer subject to appeal. parties have appealed the amended district court confirmation order to the third circuit court of appeals or otherwise challenged the amended district court opinion and the amended district court confirmation order. matters relating to the pi settlement plan, the bankruptcy and amended district court opinions, and the bankruptcy and amended district court confirmation orders may be subject to further appeal, challenge, and proceedings before the district court, the third circuit court of appeals, or other courts. parties have challenged various issues with respect to the pi settlement plan, the bankruptcy and amended district court opinions, or the bankruptcy and amended district court confirmation orders, including, without limitation, issues relating to releases and injunctions contained in the pi settlement plan. although grace publicly indicated its intent to seek to emerge from bankruptcy before the appeals are fully and finally resolved, it subsequently indicated that it was not able to receive the necessary consents and waivers to do so, including from the company. although grace has in the past indicated that, with an appeals process before the third circuit court of appeals, its target date to emerge from bankruptcy was the fourth quarter of 2013, we cannot assure you that this timing for emergence is or will be correct or that the target date for grace emergence has not been or will not be revised. consistent with our settlement agreement, we are prepared to pay the settlement amount directly to the asbestos trusts to be established under section 524(g) of the bankruptcy code once the conditions of the settlement agreement are fully satisfied. among those conditions is that approval of an appropriate grace bankruptcy plan containing all releases, injunctions, and protections required by the settlement agreement be final and not subject to any appeal. given the pending appeals (which include, without limitation, challenges to the injunctions and releases in the pi settlement plan), the condition that approval of the pi settlement plan be final and not subject to any appeal has not been satisfied at this time. the company has not waived this, or any other, condition of the settlement agreement nor can there be any assurance that each of the parties whose consent or waiver is required for grace to emerge from bankruptcy while the appeals are pending will provide such consent or waiver. while the bankruptcy court and the district court have confirmed the pi settlement plan, we do not know whether or when the third circuit court of appeals will affirm the amended district court confirmation order or the amended district court opinion, whether or when the bankruptcy and amended district court opinions or the bankruptcy and amended district court confirmation orders will become final and no longer subject to appeal, or whether or when a final plan of reorganization (whether the pi settlement plan or another plan of reorganization) will become effective. assuming that a final plan of reorganization (whether the pi settlement plan or another plan of reorganization) is confirmed by the bankruptcy court and the district court, and does become effective, we do not know whether the final plan of reorganization will be consistent with the terms of the settlement agreement or if the other conditions to our obligation to pay the settlement agreement amount will be met. if these conditions are not satisfied or not waived by us, we will not be obligated to pay the amount contemplated by the settlement agreement. however, if we do not pay the settlement agreement amount, we and our affiliates will not be released from the various claims against us. we will continue to review and monitor the progress of the grace bankruptcy proceedings (including appeals and other proceedings relating to the pi settlement plan, the bankruptcy and amended district court opinions, and the bankruptcy and amended district court confirmation orders), as well as any amendments or changes to the pi settlement plan or to the bankruptcy and amended district court opinions and confirmation orders, to verify compliance with the settlement agreement. 11 table of contents if the settlement agreement does not become effective, either because grace fails to emerge from bankruptcy or because grace does not emerge from bankruptcy with a plan of reorganization that is consistent with the terms of the settlement agreement, then we and our affiliates will not be released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against us and our affiliates noted above, and all of these claims would remain pending and would have to be resolved through other means, such as through agreement on alternative settlement terms or trials. in that case, we could face liabilities that are significantly different from our obligations under the settlement agreement. we cannot estimate at this time what those differences or their magnitude may be. in the event these liabilities are materially larger than the current existing obligations, they could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. since november 2004, the company and specified subsidiaries have been named as defendants in a number of cases, including a number of putative class actions, brought in canada as a result of grace alleged marketing, manufacturing or distributing of asbestos or asbestos containing products in canada prior to the cryovac transaction in 1998. grace has agreed to defend and indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases. the canadian cases are currently stayed. a global settlement of these canadian claims to be funded by grace has been approved by the canadian court, and the pi settlement plan provides for payment of these claims. we do not have any positive obligations under the canadian settlement, but we are a beneficiary of the release of claims. the release in favor of the grace parties (including us) will become operative upon the effective date of a plan of reorganization in grace united states chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding. as filed, the pi settlement plan contemplates that the claims released under the canadian settlement will be subject to injunctions under section 524(g) of the bankruptcy code. as indicated above, the bankruptcy court entered the bankruptcy court confirmation order on january 31, 2011 and the clarifying order on february 15, 2011 and the district court entered the original district court confirmation order on january 30, 2012 and the amended district court confirmation order on june 11, 2012. the canadian court issued an order on april 8, 2011 recognizing and giving full effect to the bankruptcy court confirmation order in all provinces and territories of canada in accordance with the bankruptcy court confirmation order terms. notwithstanding the foregoing, the pi settlement plan has not become effective, and we can give no assurance that the pi settlement plan (or any other plan of reorganization) will become effective. assuming that a final plan of reorganization (whether the pi settlement plan or another plan of reorganization) is confirmed by the bankruptcy court and the district court, and does become effective, if the final plan of reorganization does not incorporate the terms of the canadian settlement or if the canadian courts refuse to enforce the final plan of reorganization in the canadian courts, and if in addition grace is unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases, then we could be required to pay substantial damages, which we cannot estimate at this time and which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. for further information concerning these matters, see note 18, commitments and contingencies . we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. we may not be able to effect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities, the indentures that govern our senior notes and the agreements covering our accounts receivable securitization program restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. in addition, we conduct a substantial portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, certain of which are not guarantors of our indebtedness. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. unless they are guarantors of our indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. while the indenture governing certain of our senior notes, these notes and the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities limit the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to qualifications and exceptions. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. if we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could terminate their commitments to loan money, the lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. the terms of our credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our senior notes restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. the indentures governing our senior notes and the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to: incur additional indebtedness; pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; make loans and investments; sell assets; incur liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; 12 table of contents alter the businesses we conduct; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends; and consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. in addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit agreement governing our senior credit facilities require us to maintain a specified net leverage ratio. our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control. a breach of the covenants under the indenture governing our senior notes or under the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. in addition, an event of default under the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities would permit the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under those facilities. furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our senior secured credit facilities, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. in the event our lenders or noteholders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. as a result of these restrictions, we may be: limited in how we conduct our business; unable to respond to changing market conditions; unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns or to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due; or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. in addition, amounts available under our accounts receivable securitization program can be impacted by a number of factors, including but not limited to our credit ratings, accounts receivable balances, the creditworthiness of our customers and our receivables collection experience. our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. if interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. as of december 31, 2012, we had $1.615 billion of borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities at variable interest rates. a 1/8% increase or decrease in the assumed interest rates on the senior secured credit facilities would result in a $1.1 million increase or a $1.1 million decrease in annual interest expense. in the future, we may enter into interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility. however, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. raw material pricing, availability and allocation by suppliers as well as energy-related costs may negatively impact our results of operations, including our profit margins. we use petrochemical-based raw materials to manufacture many of our products. the prices for these raw materials are cyclical, and increases in market demand or fluctuations in the global trade for petrochemical- based raw materials and energy could increase our costs. in addition, the prices of many of the other key raw materials used in our businesses, such as caustic soda, solvents, waxes, phosphates, surfactants, polymers and resins, chelates and fragrances, are cyclical based on numerous supply and demand factors that are beyond our control. if we are unable to minimize the effects of increased raw material costs through sourcing, pricing or other actions, our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we also have some sole-source suppliers, and the lack of availability of supplies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers and suppliers of other raw materials in the future. these factors could lead to increased prices for our raw materials, curtailment of supplies and allocation of raw materials by our suppliers, which could reduce revenues and profit margins and harm relations with our customers and which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. the full realization of our deferred tax assets, including primarily those related to the settlement agreement, may be affected by a number of factors. we have deferred tax assets related to the settlement agreement, other accruals not yet deductible for tax purposes, foreign tax credits, u.s. and foreign net operating loss carry forwards and investment tax allowances, employee benefit items and other items. we have established valuation allowances to reduce those deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. our ability to utilize these deferred tax assets depends in part upon our ability to generate future taxable income during the periods in which these temporary differences reverse or our ability to carryback any losses created by the deduction of these temporary differences. we expect to realize these assets over an extended period. if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in the u.s. and certain foreign jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. our largest deferred tax asset relates to our settlement agreement. the value of this net asset, which was $401 million at december 31, 2012, reflects our anticipated tax benefit from the cash portion of the settlement agreement and related accrued interest and the fair market value of 18 million shares of our common stock at a post-split price of $17.86 per share, which was the price when the settlement agreement was reached in 2002. we will not be able to realize this deferred tax asset and related potential cash tax benefits until we fund our obligation under the settlement agreement. we intend to carry back a significant portion of the loss resulting from our deduction under the settlement agreement. the efficiency of any amount carried back and the benefit therefrom, as well as the benefit from the amount carried forward, may depend upon, among other factors, the year when we fund the settlement agreement. our tax benefit may be significantly reduced resulting in an increased tax expense if we fund the settlement agreement later than 2013. the timing of our funding, however, is subject to factors beyond our control. other facts that will impact our tax benefit include the amount of cash we pay, our tax position and the applicable tax codes, our past and anticipated future earnings in the u.s., as well as the price of our common stock at the time we fund the settlement agreement. for example, our tax benefit will be reduced, resulting in an increased tax expense, if the price of our common stock at the time of funding is less than $17.86 per share. conversely, although our cash tax benefit will increase, any additional benefit resulting from an increased price per share will increase our paid in capital and not decrease our tax expense. these conditions could result in a significant increase in our effective tax rate and could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in the periods in which these conditions occur. in addition, changes in statutory tax rates or other legislation or regulation may change our deferred tax assets or liability balances, with either favorable or unfavorable impacts on our effective tax rate. 13 table of contents the effects of animal and food-related health issues such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy, also known as mad cow disease, foot-and-mouth disease and avian influenza or bird-flu, as well as other health issues affecting the food industry, may lead to decreased revenues. we manufacture and sell food packaging products, among other products. various health issues affecting the food industry have in the past and may in the future have a negative effect on the sales of food packaging products. in recent years, occasional cases of mad cow disease have been confirmed and incidents of bird-flu have surfaced in various countries. outbreaks of animal diseases may lead governments to restrict exports and imports of potentially affected animals and food products, leading to decreased demand for our products and possibly also to the culling or slaughter of significant numbers of the animal population otherwise intended for food supply. also, consumers may change their eating habits as a result of perceived problems with certain types of food. these factors may lead to reduced sales of food businesses products, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. demand for our products could be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences. our sales depend heavily on the volumes of sales by our customers in the food processing and food service industries. consumer preferences for food and packaging formats of prepackaged food can influence our sales, as can consumer preferences for fresh and unpackaged foods. changes in consumer behavior, including changes in consumer preferences driven by various health-related concerns and perceptions, could negatively impact demand for our products. the consolidation of customers may adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. customers in the food service, food and beverage processing, building care, lodging, retail and health care sectors have been consolidating in recent years, and we believe this trend may continue. such consolidation could have an adverse impact on the pricing of our products and services and our ability to retain customers, which could in turn adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we experience competition in the markets for our products and services and in the geographic areas in which we operate. our packaging products compete with similar products made by other manufacturers and with a number of other types of materials or products. we compete on the basis of performance characteristics of our products, as well as service, price and innovations in technology. a number of competing domestic and foreign companies are well-established. the market for our hygiene products is highly competitive. our hygiene products businesses face significant competition from global, national, regional and local companies within some or all of its product lines in each sector that it serves. barriers to entry and expansion in the institutional and industrial cleaning, sanitation and hygiene industry are low. our inability to maintain a competitive advantage could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes for our products, which would have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations concerns about greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions and climate change and the resulting governmental and market responses to these issues could increase costs that we incur and could otherwise affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives have been enacted and proposed in response to concerns about ghg emissions and climate change. we are a manufacturing entity that utilizes petrochemical-based raw materials to produce many of our products, including plastic packaging materials. increased environmental legislation or regulation could result in higher costs for us in the form of higher raw materials and freight and energy costs. we could also incur additional compliance costs for monitoring and reporting emissions and for maintaining permits. it is also possible that certain materials might cease to be permitted to be used in our processes. disruption and volatility of the financial and credit markets could affect our external liquidity sources. our principal sources of liquidity are accumulated cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flow from operations and amounts available under our lines of credit, including our senior secured credit facilities and our accounts receivable securitization program. we may be unable to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our senior notes and our senior secured credit facilities, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. additionally, conditions in financial markets could affect financial institutions with which we have relationships and could result in adverse effects on our ability to utilize fully our committed borrowing facilities. for example, a lender under the senior secured credit facilities may be unwilling or unable to fund a borrowing request, and we may not be able to replace such lender. strengthening of the u.s. dollar and other foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could materially impact our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. approximately 65% of our net sales in 2012 were generated outside the united states. we translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currency into u.s. dollars for our consolidated financial statements. during periods of a strengthening u.s. dollar, our reported international sales and net earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer u.s. dollars. also, while we often produce in the same geographic markets as our products are sold, expenses are more concentrated in the u.s. than sales, so that in a time of strengthening of the u.s. dollar, our profit margins could be reduced. while we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency exposures, this does not insulate us completely from foreign currency effects and exposes us to counterparty credit risk for non-performance. see note 13, derivatives and hedging activities . we have recognized foreign exchange gains and losses related to the currency devaluations in venezuela and its designation as a highly inflationary economy under u.s. gaap. see item 7a.a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign exchange rates venezuela. in all jurisdictions in which we operate, we are also subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions. these laws and regulations may limit our ability to repatriate cash as dividends or otherwise to the u.s. and may limit our ability to convert foreign currency cash flows into u.s. dollars. our annual effective income tax rate can change materially as a result of changes in our mix of u.s. and foreign earnings and other factors, including changes in tax laws and changes made by regulatory authorities. our overall effective income tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of total earnings before tax. however, income tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global basis but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis. losses in one jurisdiction may not be used to offset profits in other jurisdictions and may cause an increase in our tax rate. income tax provision changes in statutory tax rates and laws, as well as ongoing audits by domestic and international authorities, could affect the amount of income taxes and other taxes paid by us. for example, legislative proposals to change u.s. taxation of non-u.s. earnings 14 table of contents could increase our effective tax rate. also, changes in the mix of earnings (or losses) between jurisdictions and assumptions used in the calculation of income taxes, among other factors, could have a significant effect on our overall effective income tax rate. in addition, our effective tax rate would increase if we were unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if we were otherwise required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. we are subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. as a result, any adverse development in the tax laws of any of these jurisdictions or any disagreement with our tax positions could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to taxation in, and to the tax laws and regulations of, multiple jurisdictions as a result of the international scope of our operations and our corporate and financing structure. we are also subject to transfer pricing laws with respect to our intercompany transactions, including those relating to the flow of funds among our companies. adverse developments in these laws or regulations, or any change in position regarding the application, administration or interpretation thereof, in any applicable jurisdiction, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of our operations. in addition, the tax authorities in any applicable jurisdiction, including the united states, may disagree with the positions we have taken or intend to take regarding the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions. if any applicable tax authorities, including u.s. tax authorities, were to successfully challenge the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of our operations. our performance and prospects for future growth could be adversely affected if new products do not meet sales or margin expectations. our competitive advantage is due in part to our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the development and introduction cycle of new products can be lengthy and involve high levels of investment. new products may not meet sales or margin expectations due to many factors, including our inability to (i) accurately predict demand, end-user preferences and evolving industry standards; (ii) resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner; or (iii) achieve manufacturing efficiencies. a major loss of or disruption in our manufacturing and distribution operations or our information systems and telecommunication resources could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we experienced a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or other severe weather event, or a casualty loss from an event such as a fire or flood, at one of our larger strategic facilities or if such event affected a key supplier, our supply chain or our information systems and telecommunication resources, then there could be a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on internal and third party information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. in particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for fulfilling and invoicing customer orders, applying cash receipts, and placing purchase orders with suppliers, making cash disbursements, and conducting digital marketing activities, data processing and electronic communications among business locations. we also depend on telecommunication systems for communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. future system disruptions, security breaches or shutdowns could significantly disrupt our operations or result in lost or misappropriated information and may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we recorded a significant amount of additional goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets as a result of the acquisition of diversey, and we may never realize the full carrying value of these assets. as a result of the acquisition of diversey, we recorded a significant amount of additional goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including customer relationships, trademarks and developed technologies. we test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for possible impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. amortizable intangible assets are periodically reviewed for possible impairment whenever there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. impairment may result from, among other things, (i) a decrease in our expected net earnings; (ii) adverse equity market conditions; (iii) a decline in current market multiples; (iv) a decline in our common stock price; (v) a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climates; (vi) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; (vii) heightened competition; (viii) strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions; or (ix) a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of. in the event that we determine that events or circumstances exist that indicate that the carrying value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, we might have to recognize a non-cash impairment of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we recorded impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets in 2012. see note 8, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, for further discussion. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial results or harm our reputation or the value of our brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of our products arise in the ordinary course of our business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm our reputation in the marketplace or adversely impact the value of our brands or our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. we could also be required to recall possibly defective products, or voluntarily do so, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims could be excluded or exceed coverage limits under the terms of our insurance policies or could result in increased costs for such coverage. the relationship with s.c. johnson &amp; son, inc. ( scj ) is important to our institutional &amp; laundry segment, and any damage to this relationship could have a material adverse effect on this segment. diversey is party to various agreements with scj, including a brand license agreement (the bla ), a technology disclosure and license agreement, supply and manufacturing agreements and several leases. under the bla, diversey is granted a license in specified territories to sell certain scj products and use specified trade names owned by scj in the institutional and industrial channels of trade and, subject to certain limitations, in specified channels of trade in which both our i&amp;l segment and scj consumer business operate. scj and its affiliates supply products under the bla. sales of these products have historically been significant to our i&amp;l segment. in addition, in some countries, our i&amp;l segment depends on scj to produce or sell some of our products. the bla purports to limit diversey right to market products with non-scj brands that scj has not approved in certain channels of trade in specified countries. if we default under our agreements with scj and the agreements are terminated, scj fails to perform its obligations under these agreements, or our relationship with scj is otherwise damaged or severed, this could have a material adverse effect on our i&amp;l segment, consolidated financial condition or results of operations 15 table of contents the relationship with unilever plc ( unilever ) is important to our institutional &amp; laundry segment and any damage to this relationship could have a material adverse effect on this segment. in connection with diversey acquisition of the diverseylever business unilever in 2002, diversey entered into various agreements with unilever, including a license agreement and agency agreement. pursuant to the license agreement, unilever granted 31 diversey subsidiaries a license to produce and sell professional size packs of unilever consumer brand cleaning products. in four countries (the united kingdom, ireland, portugal and brazil), the diversey subsidiaries operate under an agency agreement with unilever. in addition, diversey also holds licenses to use some trademarks and technology of unilever in the market for institutional and industrial cleaning, sanitation and hygiene products and related services. we believe that these agreements are significant to our institutional &amp; laundry segment. if we default under our agreements with unilever and the agreements are terminated, unilever fails to perform its obligations under these agreements, or our relationship with unilever is otherwise damaged or severed, this could have a material adverse effect on our institutional &amp; laundry segment, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we are unable to retain key employees and other personnel, our consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other key personnel. their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us, and we need their expertise to execute our business strategies. if any of our senior management or other key personnel cease to work for us and we are unable to successfully replace any departing senior management or key personnel, our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we could experience disruptions in operations and/or increased labor costs. in europe and latin america, the majority of our employees are represented by either labor unions or workers councils and are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are generally renewable on an annual basis. as is the case with any negotiation, we may not be able to negotiate acceptable new collective bargaining agreements, which could result in strikes or work stoppages by affected workers. renewal of collective bargaining agreements could also result in higher wages or benefits paid to union members. a disruption in operations or higher ongoing labor costs could materially affect our business. we are subject to a variety of environmental and product registration laws that expose us to potential financial liability and increased operating costs. our operations are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the manufacture of our products, the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil and water and the use, handling, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. many jurisdictions require us to have operating permits for our production and warehouse facilities and operations. any failure to obtain, maintain or comply with the terms of these permits could result in fines or penalties, revocation or nonrenewal of our permits, or orders to cease certain operations, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we generate, use and dispose of hazardous materials in our manufacturing processes. in the event our operations result in the release of hazardous materials into the environment, we may become responsible for the costs associated with the investigation and remediation of sites at which we have released pollutants, or sites where we have disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes, even if we fully complied with environmental laws at the time of disposal. we have been, and may continue to be, responsible for the cost of remediation at some locations. some jurisdictions have laws and regulations that govern the registration and labeling of some of our products. we expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our european operations as a result of a european union ( eu ) directive registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals (eu directive no. 2006/1907) enacted on december 18, 2006. the directive imposes several requirements related to the identification and management of risks related to chemical substances manufactured or marketed in europe. the eu has also recently enacted a classification, packaging and labeling regulation. other jurisdictions may impose similar requirements. we cannot predict with reasonable certainty the future cost to us of environmental compliance, product registration, or environmental remediation. environmental laws have become more stringent and complex over time. our environmental costs and operating expenses will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the scope and timing of the effectiveness of requirements in these various jurisdictions. as a result of such requirements, we may be subject to an increased regulatory burden, and we expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our operations. increased compliance costs, increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, or our inability to market some of our products in certain jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. the legacy diversey business had tendered various environmental indemnification claims to unilever pursuant to the unilever acquisition agreement (as defined below). under a previous acquisition agreement between the legacy diversey business and unilever (the unilever acquisition agreement ), unilever made warranties to diversey with respect to the facilities formerly owned by unilever. in addition, unilever agreed to indemnify diversey for specified types of environmental liabilities if the aggregate amount of damages meets various dollar thresholds, subject to a cap of $250 million in the aggregate. diversey was required to notify unilever of any environmental indemnification claims by may 3, 2008. any environmental claims pending after this date, with respect to which diversey has notified unilever, remain subject to indemnification until remediation is completed in accordance with the unilever acquisition agreement. if diversey incurs damages or liabilities that do not meet the indemnity thresholds under the unilever acquisition agreement, if diversey failed to notify unilever of an environmental indemnity claim within the period specified in the unilever acquisition agreement or if the aggregate limits on indemnity payments under the unilever acquisition agreement become applicable, diversey would not be entitled to indemnity from unilever for such non-qualifying claims and it would be required to bear the costs. diversey has previously tendered various environmental indemnification claims to unilever in connection with former unilever locations. unilever has not indicated its agreement with diversey request for indemnification. we may file additional requests for reimbursement in the future in connection with pending indemnification claims. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover any amounts relating to these indemnification claims from unilever. our insurance policies may not cover all operating risks and a casualty loss beyond the limits of our coverage could adversely impact our business. our business is subject to operating hazards and risks relating to handling, storing, transporting and use of the products we sell. we maintain insurance policies in amounts and with coverage and deductibles that we believe are reasonable and prudent. nevertheless, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us from all liabilities and expenses that may arise from claims for personal injury or death or property damage arising in the ordinary course of business, and our current levels of insurance may not be maintained or available in the future at economical prices. if a significant liability claim is brought against us that is not adequately covered by insurance, we may have to pay the claim with our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 16 table of contents if we are not able to protect our trade secrets or maintain our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property, we may not be able to prevent competitors from developing similar products or from marketing their products in a manner that capitalizes on our trademarks, and this loss of a competitive advantage could decrease our profitability and liquidity. our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. if we were unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property and our significant current or proposed products, this loss of a competitive advantage could result in decreased sales or increased operating costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we rely on trade secrets to maintain our competitive position, including protecting the formulation and manufacturing techniques of many of our products. as such, we have not sought u.s. or international patent protection for some of our principal product formulas and manufacturing processes. accordingly, we may not be able to prevent others from developing products that are similar to or competitive with our products. we own a large number of patents and pending patent applications on our products, aspects thereof, methods of use and/or methods of manufacturing. there is a risk that our patents may not provide meaningful protection and patents may never be issued for our pending patent applications. we own, or have licenses to use, all of the material trademark and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our major products both in the united states and in other countries where our products are principally sold. trademark and trade name protection is important to our business. although most of our trademarks are registered in the united states and in the foreign countries in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s. the costs required to protect our trademarks and trade names may be substantial. we cannot be certain that we will be able to assert these intellectual property rights successfully in the future or that they will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute the value of our intellectual property in the marketplace. third parties, including competitors, may assert intellectual property infringement or invalidity claims against us that could be upheld. intellectual property litigation, which could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by us, may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or proprietary technology or for us to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of others proprietary rights. we may not prevail in any such litigation, and if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on reasonable terms or at all. any failure by us to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we may not successfully integrate the diversey business. we are continuing our integration of the diversey business with our legacy business. we are required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the two businesses. our failure to meet the challenges involved in successfully completing the integration of our operations could adversely affect our results of operations. challenges involved in the integration include: integrating successfully each company operations; and combining corporate cultures, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees. we may not successfully complete the integration of our operations in a timely manner and may have difficulty integrating the diversey business. we may not achieve the synergy targets that we currently anticipate. we may experience disruptions in relationships with current and new employees, customers and suppliers. we already have incurred and we may incur additional non-recurring costs associated with combining the operations of the two companies. some of these costs may be higher than anticipated. we may also incur unanticipated costs, including costs to maintain employee morale, retain key employees and successfully integrate the diversey business. we have made certain assumptions relating to the acquisition of diversey in our forecasts that may prove to be materially inaccurate. we have made certain assumptions relating to the forecast level of cost savings, revenue synergies and associated costs of the acquisition of diversey. our assumptions relating to the forecast level of cost savings, revenue synergies and associated costs of the acquisition may be inaccurate based on the information available to us or as a result of the failure to realize the expected benefits of the acquisition, higher than expected integration costs, unknown liabilities and global economic and business conditions that may adversely affect the combined company following the completion of the acquisition. cyber risk and the failure to maintain the integrity of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties with which we do business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to an increasing number of information technology vulnerabilities, threats and targeted computer crimes which pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of our networks or systems could result in the loss of customers and business opportunities, legal liability, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensatory costs, and additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we attempt to mitigate these risks our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced and persistent threats. we also maintain and have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer controls. despite our efforts to protect such sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, our facilities and systems and those of our customers and third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors that could lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our consolidated, financial condition and results of operations. 17 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign exchange rates venezuela. in all jurisdictions in which we operate, we are also subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions. these laws and regulations may limit our ability to repatriate cash as dividends or otherwise to the u.s. and may limit our ability to convert foreign currency cash flows into u.s. dollars. our annual effective income tax rate can change materially as a result of changes in our mix of u.s. and foreign earnings and other factors, including changes in tax laws and changes made by regulatory authorities. our overall effective income tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of total earnings before tax. however, income tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global basis but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis. losses in one jurisdiction may not be used to offset profits in other jurisdictions and may cause an increase in our tax rate. income tax provision changes in statutory tax rates and laws, as well as ongoing audits by domestic and international authorities, could affect the amount of income taxes and other taxes paid by us. for example, legislative proposals to change u.s. taxation of non-u.s. earnings 14 table of contents could increase our effective tax rate. also, changes in the mix of earnings (or losses) between jurisdictions and assumptions used in the calculation of income taxes, among other factors, could have a significant effect on our overall effective income tax rate. in addition, our effective tax rate would increase if we were unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if we were otherwise required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. we are subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. as a result, any adverse development in the tax laws of any of these jurisdictions or any disagreement with our tax positions could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to taxation in, and to the tax laws and regulations of, multiple jurisdictions as a result of the international scope of our operations and our corporate and financing structure. we are also subject to transfer pricing laws with respect to our intercompany transactions, including those relating to the flow of funds among our companies. adverse developments in these laws or regulations, or any change in position regarding the application, administration or interpretation thereof, in any applicable jurisdiction, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of our operations. in addition, the tax authorities in any applicable jurisdiction, including the united states, may disagree with the positions we have taken or intend to take regarding the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions. if any applicable tax authorities, including u.s. tax authorities, were to successfully challenge the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of our operations. our performance and prospects for future growth could be adversely affected if new products do not meet sales or margin expectations. our competitive advantage is due in part to our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the development and introduction cycle of new products can be lengthy and involve high levels of investment. new products may not meet sales or margin expectations due to many factors, including our inability to (i) accurately predict demand, end-user preferences and evolving industry standards; (ii) resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner; or (iii) achieve manufacturing efficiencies. a major loss of or disruption in our manufacturing and distribution operations or our information systems and telecommunication resources could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we experienced a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or other severe weather event, or a casualty loss from an event such as a fire or flood, at one of our larger strategic facilities or if such event affected a key supplier, our supply chain or our information systems and telecommunication resources, then there could be a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on internal and third party information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. in particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for fulfilling and invoicing customer orders, applying cash receipts, and placing purchase orders with suppliers, making cash disbursements, and conducting digital marketing activities, data processing and electronic communications among business locations. we also depend on telecommunication systems for communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. future system disruptions, security breaches or shutdowns could significantly disrupt our operations or result in lost or misappropriated information and may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we recorded a significant amount of additional goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets as a result of the acquisition of diversey, and we may never realize the full carrying value of these assets. as a result of the acquisition of diversey, we recorded a significant amount of additional goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including customer relationships, trademarks and developed technologies. we test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for possible impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. amortizable intangible assets are periodically reviewed for possible impairment whenever there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. impairment may result from, among other things, (i) a decrease in our expected net earnings; (ii) adverse equity market conditions; (iii) a decline in current market multiples; (iv) a decline in our common stock price; (v) a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climates; (vi) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; (vii) heightened competition; (viii) strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions; or (ix) a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of. in the event that we determine that events or circumstances exist that indicate that the carrying value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, we might have to recognize a non-cash impairment of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we recorded impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets in 2012. see note 8, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, for further discussion. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial results or harm our reputation or the value of our brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of our products arise in the ordinary course of our business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm our reputation in the marketplace or adversely impact the value of our brands or our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. we could also be required to recall possibly defective products, or voluntarily do so, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims could be excluded or exceed coverage limits under the terms of our insurance policies or could result in increased costs for such coverage. the relationship with s.c. johnson &amp; son, inc. ( scj ) is important to our institutional &amp; laundry segment, and any damage to this relationship could have a material adverse effect on this segment. diversey is party to various agreements with scj, including a brand license agreement (the bla ), a technology disclosure and license agreement, supply and manufacturing agreements and several leases. under the bla, diversey is granted a license in specified territories to sell certain scj products and use specified trade names owned by scj in the institutional and industrial channels of trade and, subject to certain limitations, in specified channels of trade in which both our i&amp;l segment and scj consumer business operate. scj and its affiliates supply products under the bla. sales of these products have historically been significant to our i&amp;l segment. in addition, in some countries, our i&amp;l segment depends on scj to produce or sell some of our products. the bla purports to limit diversey right to market products with non-scj brands that scj has not approved in certain channels of trade in specified countries. if we default under our agreements with scj and the agreements are terminated, scj fails to perform its obligations under these agreements, or our relationship with scj is otherwise damaged or severed, this could have a material adverse effect on our i&amp;l segment, consolidated financial condition or results of operations 15 table of contents the relationship with unilever plc ( unilever ) is important to our institutional &amp; laundry segment and any damage to this relationship could have a material adverse effect on this segment. in connection with diversey acquisition of the diverseylever business unilever in 2002, diversey entered into various agreements with unilever, including a license agreement and agency agreement. pursuant to the license agreement, unilever granted 31 diversey subsidiaries a license to produce and sell professional size packs of unilever consumer brand cleaning products. in four countries (the united kingdom, ireland, portugal and brazil), the diversey subsidiaries operate under an agency agreement with unilever. in addition, diversey also holds licenses to use some trademarks and technology of unilever in the market for institutional and industrial cleaning, sanitation and hygiene products and related services. we believe that these agreements are significant to our institutional &amp; laundry segment. if we default under our agreements with unilever and the agreements are terminated, unilever fails to perform its obligations under these agreements, or our relationship with unilever is otherwise damaged or severed, this could have a material adverse effect on our institutional &amp; laundry segment, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we are unable to retain key employees and other personnel, our consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other key personnel. their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us, and we need their expertise to execute our business strategies. if any of our senior management or other key personnel cease to work for us and we are unable to successfully replace any departing senior management or key personnel, our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we could experience disruptions in operations and/or increased labor costs. in europe and latin america, the majority of our employees are represented by either labor unions or workers councils and are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are generally renewable on an annual basis. as is the case with any negotiation, we may not be able to negotiate acceptable new collective bargaining agreements, which could result in strikes or work stoppages by affected workers. renewal of collective bargaining agreements could also result in higher wages or benefits paid to union members. a disruption in operations or higher ongoing labor costs could materially affect our business. we are subject to a variety of environmental and product registration laws that expose us to potential financial liability and increased operating costs. our operations are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the manufacture of our products, the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil and water and the use, handling, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. many jurisdictions require us to have operating permits for our production and warehouse facilities and operations. any failure to obtain, maintain or comply with the terms of these permits could result in fines or penalties, revocation or nonrenewal of our permits, or orders to cease certain operations, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we generate, use and dispose of hazardous materials in our manufacturing processes. in the event our operations result in the release of hazardous materials into the environment, we may become responsible for the costs associated with the investigation and remediation of sites at which we have released pollutants, or sites where we have disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes, even if we fully complied with environmental laws at the time of disposal. we have been, and may continue to be, responsible for the cost of remediation at some locations. some jurisdictions have laws and regulations that govern the registration and labeling of some of our products. we expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our european operations as a result of a european union ( eu ) directive registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals (eu directive no. 2006/1907) enacted on december 18, 2006. the directive imposes several requirements related to the identification and management of risks related to chemical substances manufactured or marketed in europe. the eu has also recently enacted a classification, packaging and labeling regulation. other jurisdictions may impose similar requirements. we cannot predict with reasonable certainty the future cost to us of environmental compliance, product registration, or environmental remediation. environmental laws have become more stringent and complex over time. our environmental costs and operating expenses will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the scope and timing of the effectiveness of requirements in these various jurisdictions. as a result of such requirements, we may be subject to an increased regulatory burden, and we expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our operations. increased compliance costs, increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, or our inability to market some of our products in certain jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. the legacy diversey business had tendered various environmental indemnification claims to unilever pursuant to the unilever acquisition agreement (as defined below). under a previous acquisition agreement between the legacy diversey business and unilever (the unilever acquisition agreement ), unilever made warranties to diversey with respect to the facilities formerly owned by unilever. in addition, unilever agreed to indemnify diversey for specified types of environmental liabilities if the aggregate amount of damages meets various dollar thresholds, subject to a cap of $250 million in the aggregate. diversey was required to notify unilever of any environmental indemnification claims by may 3, 2008. any environmental claims pending after this date, with respect to which diversey has notified unilever, remain subject to indemnification until remediation is completed in accordance with the unilever acquisition agreement. if diversey incurs damages or liabilities that do not meet the indemnity thresholds under the unilever acquisition agreement, if diversey failed to notify unilever of an environmental indemnity claim within the period specified in the unilever acquisition agreement or if the aggregate limits on indemnity payments under the unilever acquisition agreement become applicable, diversey would not be entitled to indemnity from unilever for such non-qualifying claims and it would be required to bear the costs. diversey has previously tendered various environmental indemnification claims to unilever in connection with former unilever locations. unilever has not indicated its agreement with diversey request for indemnification. we may file additional requests for reimbursement in the future in connection with pending indemnification claims. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover any amounts relating to these indemnification claims from unilever. our insurance policies may not cover all operating risks and a casualty loss beyond the limits of our coverage could adversely impact our business. our business is subject to operating hazards and risks relating to handling, storing, transporting and use of the products we sell. we maintain insurance policies in amounts and with coverage and deductibles that we believe are reasonable and prudent. nevertheless, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us from all liabilities and expenses that may arise from claims for personal injury or death or property damage arising in the ordinary course of business, and our current levels of insurance may not be maintained or available in the future at economical prices. if a significant liability claim is brought against us that is not adequately covered by insurance, we may have to pay the claim with our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 16 table of contents if we are not able to protect our trade secrets or maintain our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property, we may not be able to prevent competitors from developing similar products or from marketing their products in a manner that capitalizes on our trademarks, and this loss of a competitive advantage could decrease our profitability and liquidity. our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. if we were unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property and our significant current or proposed products, this loss of a competitive advantage could result in decreased sales or increased operating costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we rely on trade secrets to maintain our competitive position, including protecting the formulation and manufacturing techniques of many of our products. as such, we have not sought u.s. or international patent protection for some of our principal product formulas and manufacturing processes. accordingly, we may not be able to prevent others from developing products that are similar to or competitive with our products. we own a large number of patents and pending patent applications on our products, aspects thereof, methods of use and/or methods of manufacturing. there is a risk that our patents may not provide meaningful protection and patents may never be issued for our pending patent applications. we own, or have licenses to use, all of the material trademark and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our major products both in the united states and in other countries where our products are principally sold. trademark and trade name protection is important to our business. although most of our trademarks are registered in the united states and in the foreign countries in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s. the costs required to protect our trademarks and trade names may be substantial. we cannot be certain that we will be able to assert these intellectual property rights successfully in the future or that they will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute the value of our intellectual property in the marketplace. third parties, including competitors, may assert intellectual property infringement or invalidity claims against us that could be upheld. intellectual property litigation, which could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by us, may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or proprietary technology or for us to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of others proprietary rights. we may not prevail in any such litigation, and if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on reasonable terms or at all. any failure by us to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we may not successfully integrate the diversey business. we are continuing our integration of the diversey business with our legacy business. we are required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the two businesses. our failure to meet the challenges involved in successfully completing the integration of our operations could adversely affect our results of operations. challenges involved in the integration include: integrating successfully each company operations; and combining corporate cultures, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees. we may not successfully complete the integration of our operations in a timely manner and may have difficulty integrating the diversey business. we may not achieve the synergy targets that we currently anticipate. we may experience disruptions in relationships with current and new employees, customers and suppliers. we already have incurred and we may incur additional non-recurring costs associated with combining the operations of the two companies. some of these costs may be higher than anticipated. we may also incur unanticipated costs, including costs to maintain employee morale, retain key employees and successfully integrate the diversey business. we have made certain assumptions relating to the acquisition of diversey in our forecasts that may prove to be materially inaccurate. we have made certain assumptions relating to the forecast level of cost savings, revenue synergies and associated costs of the acquisition of diversey. our assumptions relating to the forecast level of cost savings, revenue synergies and associated costs of the acquisition may be inaccurate based on the information available to us or as a result of the failure to realize the expected benefits of the acquisition, higher than expected integration costs, unknown liabilities and global economic and business conditions that may adversely affect the combined company following the completion of the acquisition. cyber risk and the failure to maintain the integrity of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties with which we do business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to an increasing number of information technology vulnerabilities, threats and targeted computer crimes which pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of our networks or systems could result in the loss of customers and business opportunities, legal liability, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensatory costs, and additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we attempt to mitigate these risks our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced and persistent threats. we also maintain and have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer controls. despite our efforts to protect such sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, our facilities and systems and those of our customers and third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors that could lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our consolidated, financial condition and results of operations. 17 table of contents item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties we manufacture products in 138 facilities, with 31 of those facilities serving more than one of our business segments and our other category of products. the geographic dispersion of our manufacturing facilities is as follows: geographic region number of manufacturing facilities north america 53 europe 37 latin america 16 amat 20 japan/australia/new zealand 12 total 138 manufacturing facilities by reportable segment and other food &amp; beverage: we produce f&amp;b products in 57 manufacturing facilities, of which 16 are in north america, 16 in europe, 9 in latin america, 8 in amat and 8 in japan/australia/new zealand. institutional &amp; laundry: we produce i&amp;l products in 25 manufacturing facilities, of which 6 are in north america, 6 in europe, 3 in latin america, 8 in amat and 2 in japan/australia/new zealand. protective packaging: we produce protective packaging products in 78 manufacturing facilities, of which 35 are in north america, 21 in europe, 7 in latin america, 12 in amat and 3 in japan/australia/new zealand. other: we produce medical products in 9 manufacturing facilities, of which 3 are in north america, 4 in the europe, 1 in latin america and 1 in amat. we produce other products in 4 manufacturing facilities, of which 3 are in north america and 1 in europe. other property information we own the large majority of our manufacturing facilities. some of these facilities are subject to secured or other financing arrangements. we lease the balance of our manufacturing facilities, which are generally smaller sites. our manufacturing facilities are usually located in general purpose buildings that house our specialized machinery for the manufacture of one or more products. because of the relatively low density of our air cellular, polyethylene foam and protective mailer products, we realize significant freight savings by locating our manufacturing facilities for these products near our customers and distributors. we also occupy facilities containing sales, distribution, technical, warehouse or administrative functions at a number of locations in the u.s. and in many foreign countries. some of these facilities are located on the manufacturing sites that we own and some on those that we lease. stand-alone facilities of these types are generally leased. our global headquarters are located in a leased property in elmwood park, new jersey. for a list of those countries outside of the united states where we have operations, see foreign operations above. our website, www.sealedair.com , contains additional information about our worldwide business. we believe that our manufacturing, warehouse, office and other facilities are well maintained, suitable for their purposes and adequate for our needs. item 3. legal proceedings the information set forth in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k in note 18, commitments and contingencies, under the caption cryovac transaction commitments and contingencies is incorporated herein by reference. at december 31, 2012, we were a party to, or otherwise involved in, several federal, state and foreign environmental proceedings and private environmental claims for the cleanup of superfund sites under the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act of 1980 and other sites. we may have potential liability for investigation and cleanup of some of these sites. it is our policy to accrue for environmental cleanup costs if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and if we can reasonably estimate an amount or range of costs associated with various alternative remediation strategies, without giving effect to any possible future insurance proceeds. as assessments and cleanups proceed, we review these liabilities periodically and adjust our reserves as additional information becomes available. at december 31, 2012, environmental related reserves were not material to our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. while it is often difficult to estimate potential liabilities and the future impact of environmental matters, based upon the information currently available to us and our experience in dealing with these matters, we believe that our potential future liability with respect to these sites is not material to our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are also involved in various other legal actions incidental to our business. we believe, after consulting with counsel, that the disposition of these other legal proceedings and matters will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. item 4. mine safety disclosures. not applicable. 18 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the information appearing in the table below sets forth the current position or positions held by each of our executive officers, the officer age as of january 31, 2013, the year in which the officer was first elected to the position currently held with us or with the former sealed air corporation, now known as sealed air corporation (us) and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, and the year in which such person was first elected an officer. all of our officers serve at the pleasure of the board of directors. we have employed all officers for more than five years except for dr. savoca, who was first elected an officer effective july 23, 2008, mr. chammas, who was first elected an officer effective december 16, 2010, mr. sagnak, who was first elected an officer effective january 3, 2012, ms. lowe, who was first elected an officer effective june 18, 2012, mr. peribere, who was first elected an officer effective september 1, 2012, ms. de mayo, who was first elected an officer effective december 20, 2012, mr. stiehl who was first elected an officer effective january 1, 2013, and dr. kadri, who was first elected an officer effective january 1, 2013. before joining us in july 2008, dr. savoca was vice president, technology, of the specialty polymers group of akzo nobel, a manufacturer of paints, coatings and specialty chemicals from january 2008 through may 2008, and prior to that was vice president, technology, of national starch and chemical company, a manufacturer of specialty chemicals and starches for use in industrial and commercial applications from january 2003 through december 2007. in january 2008, akzo nobel acquired national starch and chemical company. before joining us in november 2010, mr. chammas was the vice president, worldwide supply chain, for the wm. wrigley jr. company, a confectionery company, from october 2008 through october 2010, and prior to that served in management positions of increasing responsibility in supply chain, operations and procurement with the wm. wrigley jr. company from january 2002 until october 2008. prior to joining the company in october 2011 in connection with the diversey acquisition, mr. sagnak was regional president asia pacific, africa, middle east, turkey and the caucasian/asian republics (apat) of diversey since december 2010. prior to that, he held several positions at diversey including vice president institutional &amp; laundry sales &amp; service europe for over two years, area vice president ceetam (central eastern europe turkey africa middle east) from july 2006 to september 2008 and managing director of turkey &amp; middle east for over 3 years prior to that. from september 1995 through march 2003, he served in numerous management positions for diversey, most recently as global customer development director food service from february 2000 until february 2003, and national sales &amp; marketing director turkey from september 1995 to january 2000. from january 1990 to september 1995 he held several management positions in unilever turkey, most recently as group product manager dental from september 2002 to september 2005. prior to joining the company in june 2012, ms. lowe was the president of carlisle food service products, a subsidiary of carlisle companies incorporated, a global diversified manufacturing company from august 2011 through june 2012. ms. lowe has worked for carlisle companies inc. for over ten years in a number of leadership positions including president of two business units, vice president and chief financial officer, and treasurer. mr. peribere worked at the dow chemical company ( dow ) from 1977 through august 2012. mr. peribere served in multiple managerial roles with dow, most recently as executive vice president of dow and president and chief executive officer, dow advanced materials, a unit of dow, from 2010 through august 2012. mr. peribere currently serves as a board member of bmo financial corporation. mr. peribere graduated with a degree in business economics and finance from the institut d etudes politiques in paris, france. prior to joining the company in december 2012, ms. de mayo was an executive vice president, human resources at aptuit, inc., a privately held services company providing drug development and discovery solutions to the pharmaceutical and biotech industry, from 2009 through 2012. prior to that, ms. de mayo was the vice president, global human resources for henry schein, inc., a global distributor of healthcare products and services to office-based practitioners, from 2005 until 2008. prior to joining the company in january 2013, mr. stiehl was a vice president of finance and controller of the aerostructures business unit of united technologies corporation from july 2012 through november 2012. mr. stiehl worked at goodrich corporation from 2006 through 2012. mr. stiehl also served as senior audit manager with deloitte and has worked in various accounting and finance positions for over twenty-five years with increasing levels of responsibilities. mr. stiehl earned a bachelor of science in business administration from the university of cincinnati and is a certified public accountant. dr. kadri was the general manager of the dow advanced materials division, a specialty materials provider in the middle east and africa, and the europe, middle east and africa commercial director for dow water &amp; process solutions, the global leader in sustainable separation and purification technology, from january 2010 until december 2012. dr. kadri joined dow in 2009 as a marketing director for dow coating materials, following the acquisition of rohm and haas, where she served as a marketing director for the construction, the coatings and industrial division, since 2007. 19 table of contents there are no family relationships among any of our officers or directors. name and current position age as of january 31, 2013 first elected to current position* first elected an officer* jerome a. peribere president, chief executive officer and director 58 2012 2012 william v. hickey chairman and director 68 2000 1980 carol p. lowe senior vice president and chief financial officer 47 2012 2012 emile z. chammas senior vice president 44 2010 2010 jonathan b. baker vice president 59 1994 1994 philip h. cook vice president 50 2012 2012 mary a. coventry vice president 59 1994 1994 carole m. de mayo vice president 56 2012 2012 karl r. deily vice president 55 2006 2006 jean-marie dem&eacute;autis vice president 62 2006 2006 j. ryan flanagan vice president 49 2009 2009 ilham kadri vice president 44 2013 2013 warren j. kudman vice president 50 2009 2009 james p. mix vice president 61 1994 1994 manuel mondrag&oacute;n vice president 63 1999 1999 larry pillote vice president 58 2010 2010 ruth roper vice president 58 2004 2004 yagmar sagnak vice president 46 2012 2012 ann c. savoca vice president 54 2008 2008 h. katherine white vice president, general counsel and secretary 67 2003 1996 tod s. christie treasurer 54 1999 1999 william g. stiehl controller 51 2013 2013 * all persons listed in the table who were first elected officers before 1998 were executive officers of the former sealed air corporation, now known as sealed air corporation (us), prior to the cryovac transaction in march 1998. ms. white was first elected vice president in 2003, first elected general counsel in 1998, and first elected secretary in 1996. 20 table of contents part ii item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities market information our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange under the trading symbol see. the table below shows the quarterly high and low closing sales prices of our common stock and cash dividends per share for 2012 and 2011. 2012 high low dividends first quarter $ 21.04 $ 17.38 $ 0.13 second quarter 19.95 14.90 0.13 third quarter 16.67 13.11 0.13 fourth quarter 17.55 15.24 0.13 2011 high low dividends first quarter $ 28.52 $ 25.15 $ 0.13 second quarter 26.90 21.89 0.13 third quarter 23.87 16.70 0.13 fourth quarter 18.72 15.61 0.13 as of january 31, 2013, there were approximately 5,580 holders of record of our common stock. dividends our amended credit facility and the senior notes contain covenants that restrict our ability to declare or pay dividends. however, we do not believe these covenants are likely to materially limit the future payment of quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. the following table shows our total cash dividends paid each year since we initiated quarterly cash dividend payments in 2006. total cash dividends paid total cash dividends paid per common share (in millions) 2006 $ 48.6 $ 0.30 2007 64.6 0.40 2008 76.4 0.48 2009 75.7 0.48 2010 79.7 0.50 2011 87.4 0.52 2012 100.9 0.52 total $ 533.3 on february 14, 2013, our board of directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.13 per common share payable on march 15, 2013 to stockholders of record at the close of business on march 1, 2013. the estimated amount of this dividend payment is $25 million based on 195 million shares of our common stock issued and outstanding as of january 31, 2013. the dividend payments discussed above are recorded as reductions to cash and cash equivalents and retained earnings on our consolidated balance sheets. from time to time, we may consider other means of returning value to our stockholders based on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. there is no guarantee that our board of directors will declare any further dividends. common stock performance comparisons the following graph shows, for the five years ended december 31, 2012, the cumulative total return on an investment of $100 assumed to have been made on december 31, 2007 in our common stock. the graph compares this return ( see ) with that of comparable investments assumed to have been made on the same date in: (a) the standard &amp; poor 500 stock index ( composite s&amp;p 500 ) and (b) a self-constructed peer group. the peer group includes us and the following companies: agrium inc., air products &amp; chemicals, inc.; ashland inc.; avery dennison corporation; ball corporation; bemis company, inc.; celanese corporation; crown holdings, inc.; eastman chemical company; ecolab inc.; huntsman corporation; meadwestvaco corporation; monsanto company; the mosaic company; owens-illinois, inc.; ppg industries, inc.; praxair, inc.; the sherwin-williams company; and sonoco products co. total return for each assumed investment assumes the reinvestment of all dividends on december 31 of the year in which the dividends were paid. 5-year compound annual growth rate see: (-2.9%) composite s&amp;p 500: (+1.7%) peer group: (+5.6%) 21 table of contents issuer purchases of equity securities the table below sets forth the total number of shares of our common stock, par value $0.10 per share, that we repurchased in each month of the quarter ended december 31, 2012, the average price paid per share and the maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under our publicly announced plans or programs. total number of share maximum number of total number of average price purchased as part of shares that may yet be shares purchased paid publicly announced purchased under the (1) per share plans or programs plans or programs period (a) (b) (c) (d) balance as of september 30, 2012 $ 15,546,142 october 1, 2012 through october 31, 2012 16,241 15,546,142 november 1, 2012 through november 30, 2012 7,650 15,546,142 december 1, 2012 through december 31, 2012 8,040 15,546,142 total 31,931 $ 15,546,142 (1) we did not purchase any shares during the quarter ended december 31, 2012 pursuant to our publicly announced program (described below). we did acquire shares by means of (a) shares withheld from awards under our 2005 contingent stock plan pursuant to the provision thereof that permits tax withholding obligations or other legally required charges to be satisfied by having us withhold shares from an award under that plan and (b) shares reacquired pursuant to the forfeiture provision of our 2005 contingent stock plan. (see table below.) we report price calculations in column (b) in the table above only for shares purchased as part of our publicly announced program, when applicable, including commissions. for shares withheld for tax withholding obligations or other legally required charges, we withhold shares at a price equal to their fair market value. we do not make payments for shares reacquired by the company pursuant to the forfeiture provision of the 2005 contingent stock plan as those shares are simply forfeited. shares withheld for tax average withholding price forfeitures under 2005 obligations and charges for shares in column a contingent stock plan total period (a) (b) (c) (d) october 2012 16,241 $ 16.04 16,241 november 2012 7,650 7,650 december 2012 540 16.13 7,500 8,040 total 16,781 $ 15,150 31,931 on august 9, 2007, we announced that our board of directors had approved a share repurchase program authorizing us to repurchase in the aggregate up to 20 million shares of our issued and outstanding common stock (described further under the caption, repurchases of capital stock, in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k). this program has no set expiration date. this program replaced our prior share repurchase program, which we terminated at that time. 22 table of contents item 6. selected financial data year ended december 31, 2012 (1)(2) 2011 (1)(2) 2010 2009 2008 (in millions, except per common share data) consolidated statements of operations data (3) : net sales $ 7,648.1 $ 5,550.9 $ 4,490.1 $ 4,242.8 $ 4,843.5 gross profit 2,544.3 1,600.3 1,252.8 1,218.5 1,236.6 impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 1,892.3 operating (loss) profit (1,417.1 ) 429.4 535.0 492.3 396.5 loss on debt redemption (36.9 ) (38.5 ) (3.4 ) (loss) earnings from continuing operations before income tax provision (1,872.0 ) 198.0 343.4 329.9 222.3 net (loss) earnings from continuing operations (1,610.1 ) 138.5 255.9 244.3 179.9 net earnings from discontinued operations 20.9 10.6 net gain on sale of discontinued operations 178.9 net (loss) earnings available to common stockholders (1,410.3 ) 149.1 255.9 244.3 179.9 basic and diluted net earnings per common share: basic continuing operations $ (8.35 ) $ 0.83 $ 1.61 $ 1.54 $ 1.13 discontinued operations 1.04 0.06 net (loss) earnings per common share basic $ (7.31 ) $ 0.89 $ 1.61 $ 1.54 $ 1.13 diluted continuing operations $ (8.35 ) $ 0.75 $ 1.44 $ 1.35 $ 0.99 discontinued operations 1.04 0.05 net (loss) earnings per common share diluted $ (7.31 ) $ 0.80 $ 1.44 $ 1.35 $ 0.99 common stock dividends $ 101.4 $ 88.7 $ 80.9 $ 77.5 $ 76.4 consolidated balance sheets data: cash and cash equivalents $ 679.6 $ 703.6 $ 675.6 $ 694.5 $ 128.9 goodwill 3,191.4 4,209.6 1,945.9 1,948.7 1,938.1 intangible assets, net 1,139.7 2,035.7 78.0 58.4 64.2 total assets 9,437.2 11,432.0 5,399.4 5,420.1 4,986.0 settlement agreement and related accrued interest 876.9 831.2 787.9 746.8 707.8 long-term debt, less current portion (4) 4,540.8 4,966.7 1,399.2 1,626.3 1,289.9 total stockholders equity 1,444.3 2,952.4 2,401.6 2,200.3 1,925.6 working capital (current assets less current liabilities) 888.8 844.0 592.3 639.6 50.5 consolidated cash flows data: net cash provided by operating activities $ 404.4 $ 372.2 $ 483.1 $ 552.0 $ 404.4 net cash used in investing activities (116.5 ) (2,370.0 ) (96.9 ) (70.3 ) (176.7 ) net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (585.1 ) 2,016.4 (373.0 ) 90.3 (562.9 ) other financial data: depreciation and amortization $ 304.0 $ 186.7 $ 154.7 $ 154.5 $ 155.0 share-based incentive compensation 16.9 25.0 30.6 38.8 16.5 capital expenditures 124.4 123.5 87.6 80.3 180.7 (1) includes the financial results of diversey for the period beginning october 3, 2011. see note 4, acquisition of diversey holdings, inc., for further information about the acquisition. (2) operating results for diversey japan were reclassified to discontinued operations for the periods beginning october 3, 2011 and related assets and liabilities were reclassified to assets and liabilities held for sale as of december 31, 2011. see note 3, divestiture, for further information about the sale of diversey japan. (3) see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, for a discussion of the factors that contributed to our consolidated operating results for the three years ended december 31, 2012. (4) see note 12, debt and credit facilities, for a discussion of our outstanding debt and available lines of credit. 23 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the information in this md&amp;a should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes set forth in part ii, item 8, as well as the discussion included in part i, item 1a, risk factors, of this annual report on form 10-k. all amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars are in millions, except per share amounts. during the fourth quarter of 2012, we completed the sale of diversey japan in november 2012, and, accordingly the operating results were reclassified to discontinued operations, net of tax, on the consolidated statements of operations for 2012 and 2011. also, the assets and liabilities of the diversey japan operations were reclassified to assets and liabilities held for sale as of december 31, 2011. see note 3, divestiture, for further details. all results included in this md&amp;a are presented on a continuing operations basis. also during the fourth quarter of 2012, we began to operate under a new business division structure for our segment reporting structure. all prior period segment results and discussions have been revised to conform to the new segment presentation. the results include the operating results of diversey beginning october 3, 2011 (date of acquisition). all results prior to october 3, 2011 include historical sealed air results only. the changes to the segment structure have no effect on the historical consolidated results of operations of the company. overview we are a global leader in food safety and security, facility hygiene and product protection. we serve an array of end markets including food and beverage processing, food service, retail, health care and industrial, commercial and consumer applications. we have widely recognized and inventive brands such as bubble wrap &reg; brand cushioning, cryovac &reg; brand food packaging solutions and diversey &reg; brand cleaning and hygiene solutions. our focus is on achieving net sales growth through geographic expansion, new and expanded relationships with customers and demonstrating the strength of our sustainability value proposition. as of december 31, 2012, we employed approximately 8,400 sales, marketing and customer service personnel throughout the world who sell and market our products to and through a large number of distributors, fabricators, converters, e-commerce and mail order fulfillment firms, and contract packaging firms as well as directly to end-users such as food processors, foodservice businesses, supermarket retailers, lodging, retail pharmaceutical companies, health care facilities, medical device manufacturers, and other manufacturers. we have no material long-term contracts for the distribution of our products. in 2012, no customer or affiliated group of customers accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales. historically, net sales in our f&amp;b segment have tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter, due to holiday events. net sales in our i&amp;l segment have tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter, second quarter sales represent a modest seasonal increase due to higher occupancy rates in european lodging, and the third and fourth quarters of the year are relatively the same level as the second quarter. net sales in our protective packaging segment have also tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and higher in the mid-third quarter and through the fourth quarter due to the holiday shopping season. on a consolidated basis, there is little seasonality in the business, with net sales slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter. our consolidated net earnings typically trend directionally the same as our net sales seasonality. cash flow from operations has tended to be lower in the first quarter and higher in the fourth quarter, reflecting seasonality of sales and working capital changes, including the timing of certain annual incentive compensation payments. other factors may outweigh the effects of seasonal changes in our net earnings results including, but not limited to, changes in raw materials and other costs, foreign exchange rates, interest rates, taxes and the timing and amount of acquisition synergies and restructuring and other non-recurring charges. competition for most of our packaging products is based primarily on packaging performance characteristics, service and price. competition is also based upon innovations in packaging technology and, as a result, we maintain ongoing research and development programs to enable us to maintain technological leadership. our diversey solutions face a wide spectrum of competitors across each product category. competition is both global and regional in scope and includes numerous small, local competitors with limited product portfolios and geographic reach. for more details, see competition included in business, of item 1, part i. our net sales are sensitive to developments in our customers business or market conditions, changes in the global economy, and the effects of foreign currency translation. our costs can vary materially due to changes in input costs, including petrochemical-related costs (primarily resin costs), which are not within our control. consequently, our management focuses on reducing those costs that we can control and using petrochemical-based and other raw materials as efficiently as possible. we also believe that our global presence helps to insulate us from localized changes in business conditions. we manage our businesses to generate substantial operating cash flow. we believe that our operating cash flow will permit us to continue to spend on innovative research and development and to invest in our business by means of capital expenditures for property and equipment and acquisitions. moreover, we expect that our ability to generate substantial operating cash flow should provide us with the flexibility to repay debt and to return capital to our stockholders. 2013 outlook we expect modest sales and adjusted ebitda growth, despite our significant exposure to european markets and a recent increase in raw material costs. we intend to take decisive actions to adjust pricing in product lines impacted by escalating raw material costs. as a result, we estimate 2013 net sales in the range of $7.7 7.9 billion, adjusted ebitda of $1.010 billion to $1.030 billion, and adjusted eps between $1.10 and $1.20. we also estimate free cash flow for 2013 of approximately $300 million to $350 million, which represents cash flow from operations, less capital expenditures. we expect a core effective tax rate in the range of 25% to 27% in 2013. adjusted eps guidance excludes the payment of the settlement agreement, as the exact timing of the settlement is unknown. final payment of the settlement agreement is expected to be accretive to adjusted eps by approximately $0.13 annually following the payment date under the assumption of using a substantial portion of cash on hand for the payment and ceasing to accrue interest on the settlement amount. additionally, guidance excludes any non-operating gains or losses that may be recognized in 2013 due to currency fluctuations in venezuela. 24 table of contents highlights of financial performance below are the highlights of our financial performance for the three years ended december 31, 2012. 2012 2011 2010 2012 vs. 2011 % change 2011 vs. 2010 % change net sales $ 7,648.1 $ 5,550.9 $ 4,490.1 38 % 24 % gross profit $ 2,544.3 $ 1,600.3 $ 1,252.8 59 % 28 % as a % of net sales 33.3 % 28.8 % 27.9 % impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets $ 1,892.3 $ $ # # operating (loss) profit $ (1,417.1 ) $ 429.4 $ 535.0 # % (20 )% as a % of total net sales (18.5 )% 7.7 % 11.9 % net (loss) earnings from continuing operations $ (1,610.1 ) $ 138.5 $ 255.9 # % (45 )% net earnings and gain on sale from discontinued operations $ 199.8 $ 10.6 $ # % # % net (loss) earnings available to common stockholders $ (1,410.3 ) $ 149.1 $ 255.9 # % (42 )% net (loss) earnings available to common stockholders-diluted $ (1,410.3 ) $ 148.3 $ 254.4 # % (42 )% net (loss) earnings per common share: basic: continuing operations $ (8.35 ) $ 0.83 $ 1.61 # % (48 )% discontinued operations 1.04 0.06 # % # % net (loss) earnings per common share basic $ (7.31 ) $ 0.89 $ 1.61 # % (45 )% diluted: continuing operations $ (8.35 ) $ 0.75 $ 1.44 # % (48 )% discontinued operations 1.04 0.05 # % # % net (loss) earnings per common share diluted $ (7.31 ) $ 0.80 $ 1.44 # % (44 )% weighted average number of common shares outstanding: basic 192.8 167.0 158.3 15 % 5 % diluted 192.8 185.4 176.7 4 % 5 % non-u.s. gaap adjusted diluted net earnings per common share continuing operations (1) $ 0.95 $ 1.26 $ 1.60 (24 )% (22 )% non-u.s. gaap adjusted diluted net earnings per common share discontinued operations (1) 0.95 0.05 # % # % non-u.s. gaap adjusted diluted net earnings per common share (1) $ 1.90 $ 1.31 $ 1.60 45 % (18 )% # denotes a variance greater than or equal to 100%, or not meaningful. (1) see diluted net earnings per common share for a reconciliation of our u.s. gaap eps to our non-u.s. gaap adjusted eps. diluted net earnings per common share the following table presents a reconciliation of our u.s. gaap eps to non-u.s. gaap adjusted eps. year ended december 31, 2012 2011 (1) 2010 (1) net earnings diluted eps net earnings diluted eps net earnings diluted eps u.s. gaap net (loss) earnings and eps from continuing operations $ (1,610.1 ) $ (8.35 ) $ 138.5 $ 0.75 $ 254.4 $ 1.44 adjusted net earnings and eps impact of special items (2) 1,810.6 8.57 94.3 0.51 26.9 0.16 eps impact of using weighted-average dilutive shares for adjusted eps calculation (3) 0.73 non-u.s. gaap net earnings and eps from continuing operations 200.5 0.95 232.8 1.26 281.3 1.60 discontinued operations 199.8 0.95 10.6 0.05 non-u.s. gaap adjusted net earnings and eps $ 400.3 $ 1.90 $ 243.4 $ 1.31 $ 281.3 $ 1.60 (1) our 2011 and 2010 adjusted eps calculation has been revised to conform to our 2012 presentation. there was no material impact to our adjusted eps results due to this revision. (2) special items are certain one-time costs. for 2012, these items primarily included (i) impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, (ii) restructuring charges and (iii) loss on debt redemption. for 2011, these items primarily include costs related to the acquisition and integration of diversey and restructuring charges. in 2010, these items primarily include loss on debt redemption. (3) represents the impact of using diluted weighted average number of common shares outstanding (211.2 million shares in 2012) included in the non-u.s. gaap adjusted eps calculation in order to apply the dilutive impact on adjusted net earnings of 18 million shares from the assumed issuance of the settlement agreement shares and non-vested restricted stock and restricted stock units. this impact occurs when u.s. gaap net loss is reported and using dilutive shares is antidilutive. see note 21, net (loss) earnings per common share, for details on the calculation of our u.s. gaap basic and diluted eps. our u.s. gaap and non-u.s. gaap income taxes are as follows: year ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 (benefit) provision effective tax rate (benefit) provision effective tax rate (benefit) provision effective tax rate u.s. gaap $ (261.9 ) 14.0 % $ 59.5 30.0 % $ 87.5 25.5 % non-u.s. gaap (core taxes) $ 70.7 26.1 % $ 94.4 30.9 % $ 102.0 26.6 % the discussions that follow provide further details about the material factors that contributed to the changes in our eps for the three years ended december 31, 2012. 25 table of contents net sales by segment reporting structure the following table presents net sales by our segment reporting structure: 2012 2011 2010 2012 vs. 2011 % change 2011 vs. 2010 % change net sales: food &amp; beverage $ 3,739.6 $ 3,240.6 $ 2,858.5 15 % 13 % as a % of total net sales 49 % 58 % 64 % institution &amp; laundry 2,131.5 534.0 # # as a % of total net sales 28 % 10 % # % protective packaging 1,578.4 1,594.4 1,469.9 (1 ) 8 as a % of total net sales 21 % 29 % 33 % other 198.6 181.9 161.7 9 12 as a % of total net sales 2 % 3 % 3 % total $ 7,648.1 $ 5,550.9 $ 4,490.1 38 % 24 % # denotes a variance greater than or equal to 100%, or not meaningful. net sales by geographic region by geographic region, the components of the increase in net sales for 2012 compared with 2011 were as follows: north america europe latin america amat japan/ australia/new zealand total change in net sales volume-units $ 48.2 $ (21.1 ) $ 38.8 $ 33.4 $ 2.3 $ 101.6 % change 1.9 % (1.3 )% 7.1 % 9.6 % 0.4 % 1.8 % volume-acquired businesses, net of (dispositions) 455.3 970.8 234.2 404.5 52.8 2,117.6 % change 18.4 % 59.2 % 42.9 % # 9.7 % 38.2 % product price/mix 0.8 0.3 33.2 (1.1 ) (4.2 ) 29.0 % change 6. 1 % (0. 3 )% (0.7 )% 0.5 % foreign currency translation (1.2 ) (97.7 ) (49.9 ) (6.0 ) 3.8 (151.0 ) % change (5.9 )% (9.1 )% (1.7 )% 0.7 % (2.7 )% total $ 503. 1 $ 852. 3 $ 256.3 $ 430.8 $ 54.7 $ 2,097.2 % change 20.3 % 52.0 % 47.0 % # % 10.1 % 37.8 % # denotes a variance greater than or equal to 100%, or not meaningful. by geographic region, the components of the increase in net sales for 2011 compared with 2010 were as follows: north america europe latin america amat japan/ australia/new zealand total change in net sales volume-units $ 4.1 $ 35.3 $ 6.2 $ 27.1 $ 4.6 $ 77.3 % change 0.2 % 3.0 % 1.4 % 1 3. 7 % 1.0 % 1. 7 % volume-acquired businesses, net of (dispositions) 145.9 340.7 82.8 120.0 18.0 707.4 % change 6.6 % 2 9 . 1 % 19.1 % 60.7 % 3.9 % 15.8 % product price/mix 94.0 24.4 9.0 (12.2 ) 6.1 121.3 % change 4.2 % 2.1 % 2.1 % ( 6.3 )% 1.3 % 2. 7 % foreign c urrency t ranslation 7.2 68.1 13.4 13.4 52.7 154.8 % change 0.3 % 5. 8 % 3.1 % 6.8 % 11.5 % 3.4 % total $ 251. 2 $ 468.5 $ 111. 4 $ 148.3 $ 81.4 $ 1,060.8 % change 11.3 % 40.0 % 25.7 % 75.0 % 17.7 % 23.6 % # denotes a variance greater than or equal to 100%, or not meaningful. foreign currency translation impact on net sales as shown above, 65% of our consolidated net sales in 2012 were generated outside the u.s. since we are a u.s. domiciled company, we translate our foreign currency-denominated net sales into u.s. dollars. due to the changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, translating our net sales from foreign currencies to u.s. dollars may result in a favorable or unfavorable impact. the most significant currencies that contributed to the translation of our net sales and our other consolidated financial results in 2012 were the euro, the british pound, the australian dollar, the brazilian real and the canadian dollar. we experienced an unfavorable impact from the translation of our foreign currency-denominated net sales of $151 million in 2012 compared with 2011. this was primarily due to the weakening of the u.s. dollar against the euro and brazilian real. in 2011, we experienced a favorable foreign currency translation impact on net sales of $155 million compared with 2010. approximately $152 million of this favorable impact was experienced in the first nine months of 2011 as the u.s. dollar began to strengthen against most of the significant currencies that contribute to our net sales and other consolidated financial results. components of change in net sales the following tables present the components of change in net sales by our segment reporting structure for 2012 compared with 2011 and 2011 compared with 2010. 26 table of contents we also present the change in net sales excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, a non-u.s. gaap measure, which we define as constant dollar. we believe using constant dollar measures aids in the comparability between periods as it eliminates the volatility of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 2012 compared with 2011 food &amp; beverage institutional &amp; laundry protective packaging other total company volume units $ 51.1 1.6 % $ 2.9 0.5 % $ 21.5 1.4 % $ 26.1 14.3 % $ 101.6 1.8 % volume acquired businesses, net of (dispositions) 516.7 15.9 1,598.6 # 2.3 1.3 2,117.6 38.2 product price/mix (1) 22.5 0.7 8.8 1.7 (1.4 ) (0.1 ) (0.9 ) (0.5 ) 29.0 0.5 foreign currency translation (91.1 ) (2.8 ) (13.0 ) (2.4 ) (36.1 ) (2.3 ) (10.8 ) (5.9 ) (151.0 ) (2.7 ) total change (u.s. gaap) $ 499.2 15.4 % $ 1,597.3 # % $ (16.0 ) (1.0 )% $ 16.7 9.2 % $ 2,097.2 37.8 % impact of foreign currency translation $ 91.1 2.8 % $ 13.0 2.4 % $ 36.1 2.3 % $ 10.8 5.9 % $ 151.0 2.7 % total constant dollar change (non-u.s. gaap) $ 590.3 18.2 % $ 1,610.3 # % $ 20.1 1.3 % $ 27.5 15.1 % $ 2,248.2 40.5 % 2011 compared with 2010 food &amp; beverage institutional &amp; laundry protective packaging other total company volume units $ 7.6 0.3 % $ % $ 55.5 3.8 % $ 14.0 8.6 % $ 77.1 1.7 % volume acquired businesses, net of (dispositions) 172.5 6.0 534.0 # 1.0 0.1 707.5 15.8 product price/mix (1) 96.6 3.4 25.4 1.7 (0.4 ) (0.2 ) 121.6 2.7 foreign currency translation 105.4 3.7 42.8 2.9 6.4 4.0 154.6 3.4 total change (u.s. gaap) $ 382.1 13.4 % $ 534.0 # % $ 124.7 8.5 % $ 20.0 12.4 % $ 1,060.8 23.6 % impact of foreign currency translation $ (105.4 ) (3.7 )% $ % $ (42.8 ) (2.9 )% $ (6.4 ) (4.0 )% $ (154.6 ) (3.4 )% total constant dollar change (non-u.s. gaap) $ 276.7 9.7 % $ 534.0 # % $ 81.9 5.6 % $ 13.6 8.4 % $ 906.2 20.2 % # denotes a variance greater than or equal to 100%, or not meaningful. (1) our product price/mix reported above includes the net impact of our pricing actions and rebates as well as the period-to-period change in the mix of products sold. also included in our reported product price/mix is the net effect of some of our customers purchasing our products in non-u.s. dollar or euro denominated countries at selling prices denominated in u.s. dollars or euros. this primarily arises when we export products from the u.s. and euro-zone countries. the impact to our reported product price/mix of these purchases in other countries at selling prices denominated in u.s. dollars or euros was not material in the periods included in the table above. the following net sales discussion is on a constant dollar basis. food &amp; beverage segment net sales 2012 compared with 2011 the $590 million, or 18%, constant dollar increase in 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to: a $517 million incremental impact of net sales by the acquired businesses from the hygiene solutions business as a result of the acquisition of diversey in the fourth quarter of 2011; favorable product price/mix in latin america of $29 million, or 7%, primarily from the benefits of prior pricing actions that were implemented to offset rising raw materials costs and from formula-based contractual price adjustments in the packaging solutions business; and higher unit volumes in latin america of $28 million, or 7%, due to increased customer production rates for fresh red meat in the packaging solutions business. 2011 compared with 2010 the $277 million, or 10%, constant dollar increase in 2011 compared with 2010 was primarily due to: a $173 million incremental impact of net sales by the acquired businesses from the hygiene solutions business as a result of the acquisition of diversey in the fourth quarter of 2011; favorable product price/mix in the u.s. of $73 million, or 3%, from the benefits of pricing actions that were implemented to offset rising raw materials costs, as well as formula-based contractual price adjustments in the packaging solutions business; and higher unit volumes in europe of $19 million, or 1%, from higher equipment sales and case-ready, ready meal and vertical pouch packaging products sales from existing and new customers. these favorable drivers were partially offset by lower unit volumes in the canada of $14 million, or 1%, primarily due to a customer loss in the packaging solutions business. this customer loss is not considered material to our consolidated net sales. 27 table of contents institutional &amp; laundry segment net sales 2012 compared with 2011 the $1,610 million constant dollar increase in net sales in 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to: a $1,599 million incremental impact of net sales by the acquired i&amp;l business as a result of the acquisition of diversey in the fourth quarter of 2011; and favorable product price/mix of $9 million, or 2% , primarily in latin america and amat regions in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared with the same period of 2011. these factors were partially offset by a decrease in unit volumes in europe of $10 million, or 4%, reflecting a decline in consumer brands and lower equipment sales. 2011 compared with 2010 the $534 million constant dollar increase in net sales in 2011 compared with 2010 represents the acquisition of the i&amp;l business as part of the acquisition of diversey in the fourth quarter of 2011. protective packaging segment net sales 2012 compared with 2011 the $20 million, or 1%, constant dollar increase in net sales in 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to higher unit volumes in the u.s. of $25 million, or 3%, due to expanded market presence and strengths in solutions targeting e-commerce applications. this growth was partially offset by lower unit volumes in europe of $11 million, or 3%, primarily due to lower customer demand reflecting the current economic challenges in the region. 2011 compared with 2010 the $82 million, or 6%, constant dollar increase in 2011 compared with 2010 was primarily due to: higher unit volumes in the u.s. of $27 million, or 3%, due to higher year-over-year industrial production rates, which in turn favorably affected the sales of our protective packaging products to existing customers in the order fulfillment space and our inflatable materials and equipment systems to new and existing customers in the e-commerce space; favorable product price/mix in the u.s. of $17 million, or 2%, and in europe of $11 million, or 3%, due to the benefits of pricing actions that were implemented to offset rising raw materials costs. cost of sales our primary input costs include raw materials such as polyolefin and other petrochemical-based resins and films, caustic soda, solvents, waxes, phosphates, surfactants, chelates, fragrances and paper and wood pulp products. these raw materials represent approximately one third of our cost of sales. our other cost of sales inputs include direct and indirect labor, other raw materials and other input costs, including energy-related costs and transportation costs. the costs for our raw materials are impacted by the rise and fall in crude oil and natural gas prices, since they serve as feedstocks utilized in the production of our raw materials. the prices for these feedstocks have been particularly volatile in recent years as a result of changes in global demand. in addition, supply and demand imbalances of intermediate compounds such as benzene and supplier facility outages have impacted resin costs. although changes in the prices of crude oil and natural gas are indicative of the variations in certain raw materials and energy-related costs, they are not perfect benchmarks. we continue to monitor changes in raw material and energy-related costs as they occur and take pricing actions as appropriate to lessen the impact of cost increases when they occur. cost of sales for the three years ended december 31, 2012 was as follows: 2012 2011 2010 2012 vs. 2011 % change 2011 vs. 2010 % change cost of sales $ 5,103.8 $ 3,950.6 $ 3,237.3 29 % 22 % as a % of net sales 67 % 71 % 72 % 2012 compared with 2011 the $1.2 billion increase in cost of sales in 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to the incremental impact of costs of sales from acquired businesses of $1.2 billion from the food and beverage hygiene solutions and i&amp;l businesses as a result of the acquisition of diversey in the fourth quarter of 2011. cost of sales for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared with 2011 was also impacted by favorable foreign currency translation of $111 million. costs for raw materials and freight were $15 million lower in 2012 compared with 2011. 2011 compared with 2010 the $713 million increase in cost of sales in 2011 compared with 2010 was primarily due to: a $423 million incremental impact of costs of sales from acquired businesses from the food and beverage hygiene solutions and i&amp;l businesses as a result of the acquisition of diversey in the fourth quarter of 2011; higher raw materials costs of $125 million attributable to the increased average cost per pound of resin in 2011; an unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation of $115 million; and higher transportation and energy-related costs of $20 million. marketing, administrative and development expenses marketing, administrative and development expenses for the three years ended december 31, 2012 are included in the table below. the amounts for 2011 and 2010 have been reclassified to conform to the 2012 presentation of these expenses as we now present the amortization of intangible assets acquired as a separate line item on our consolidated statements of operations. 28 table of contents 2012 2011 2010 2012 vs. 2011 % change 2011 vs. 2010 % change marketing, administrative and development expenses $ 1,785.2 $ 1,014.4 $ 699.0 76 % 45 % as a % of net sales 23 % 18 % 16 % 2012 compared with 2011 the $771 million increase in marketing, administrative and development expenses in 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to a $796 million incremental impact of expenses from acquired businesses from the food and beverage hygiene solutions and i&amp;l businesses as a result of the acquisition of diversey in the fourth quarter of 2011, partially offset by the impact of favorable foreign currency translation of $27 million and a decrease in share-based compensation of $8 million primarily because we did not achieve some of our 2012 financial performance goals. 2011 compared with 2010 the $315 million increase in marketing, administrative and development expenses in 2011 compared with 2010 was primarily due to: a $275 million incremental impact of expenses from acquired businesses from the food and beverage hygiene solutions and i&amp;l businesses as a result of the acquisition of diversey in the fourth quarter of 2011; an unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation of $21 million; an increase in selling and marketing expenses of $15 million to support our sales growth; and higher development expenses of $3 million due to additional headcount and increase in project spending to support strategic growth programs. these factors were partially offset by a decrease in share-based compensation of $6 million primarily because we did not achieve some of our 2011 financial performance goals. amortization expense of intangible assets acquired amortization expense of intangible assets acquired for the three years ended december 31, 2012 were as follows: 2012 2011 2010 amortization expense of intangible assets acquired $ 134.0 $ 39.5 $ 11.2 the increase in 2012 compared with both 2011 and 2010 was due to the amortization of the intangible assets acquired in connection with the acquisition of diversey in the fourth quarter of 2011. impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets in 2012, we recorded a pre-tax non-cash impairment charge of $1,892.3 million of goodwill and other intangible assets. see note 8, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, for information of the events and circumstances that lead to this impairment. costs related to the acquisition and integration of diversey we recorded transaction and integration costs directly related to the acquisition of diversey of $7 million in 2012 and $65 million in 2011. the transaction related costs were $55 million and primarily consist of financing commitment, legal, regulatory and appraisal fees. the remainder of the costs in both periods were integration costs primarily consisting of consulting fees. as discussed above, we have excluded these costs from our adjusted eps calculations. see note 4, acquisition of diversey holdings, inc., for further discussion of the acquisition. restructuring activities 2011-2014 integration and optimization program in december 2011, we initiated a restructuring program associated with the integration of diversey business following our acquisition of diversey on october 3, 2011. the program primarily consists of (i) reduction in headcount, (ii) consolidation of facilities, and (iii) supply chain network optimization, and (iv) certain other capital expenditures. this program is expected to be completed by the end of 2014. see note 10, restructuring activities, for further discussion of the charges and liabilities associated with this program. we estimate that we realized approximately $105 million of benefits from this program in 2012 from headcount reductions, elimination of redundant costs, plant consolidations and procurement and logistics savings. we anticipate realizing an incremental $90 million in benefits in 2013. the actual timing of future costs and cash payments related to this program are subject to change due to a variety of factors that may cause a portion of the costs, spending and benefits to occur later expected. in addition, changes in foreign exchange rates may impact future costs, spending and benefits. european principal company in may 2011, before the acquisition of diversey, diversey management approved, subject to successful works council consultations, plans to reorganize its european operations to function under a centralized management and supply chain model. we completed the reorganization on may 3, 2012 and the epc, based in the netherlands, is now centrally managing diversey european operations. diversey european subsidiaries are executing sales and distribution locally, and local production companies are acting as toll manufacturers. as part of the planning for this reorganization, we recognized associated costs of $12 million in 2012 and $4 million in 2011. these costs are included in marketing, administrative and development expenses in the consolidated statements of operations and in restructuring charges in 2011 related to termination benefits of $1 million. 29 table of contents global manufacturing strategy we announced our global manufacturing strategy program in 2006 and completed the program in 2010. the goals of this multi-year program were to realign our manufacturing footprint to expand capacity in growing markets, to further improve our operating efficiencies, and to implement new technologies more effectively. additionally, we optimized certain manufacturing platforms in north america and europe into centers of excellence. by taking advantage of new technologies and streamlining production on a global scale, we have continued to enhance our profitable growth and our global leadership position and have produced meaningful benefits. the capital expenditures, associated costs and related restructuring charges and the total amounts incurred since inception of this multi-year program are included in the table below. year ended december 31, 2010 cumulative through december 31, 2010 capital expenditures $ 3.3 $ 156.0 associated costs 3.8 36.2 restructuring and other charges 4.4 42.7 we estimate that we realized approximately $55 million in benefits in 2010, which were primarily realized in cost of sales. european facility closure in december 2010, we closed a small shrink packaging factory in europe. we took this action based on our review of operating costs and technology levels in an effort to simplify our plant network and improve our operating efficiency. we recorded nominal associated costs and restructuring and other charges in 2011 and $7 million in 2010. the associated costs and restructuring and other charges related to the actions described above are considered special items and are excluded from our non-u.s. gaap eps calculations. see diluted net earnings per common share above for further details. see note 10, restructuring activities, for additional information on our recent restructuring activities. operating (loss) profit management evaluates the performance of each reportable segment based on its operating (loss) profit. operating (loss) profit by our segment reporting structure for the three years ended december 31, 2012 was as follows: 2012 2011 2010 2012 vs. 2011 % change 2011 vs. 2010 % change food &amp; beverage $ (170.9 ) $ 371.2 $ 361.9 # % 3 % as a % of food &amp; beverage net sales (4.6 )% 11.5 % 12.7 % institutional &amp; laundry (1,278.4 ) (14.8 ) # # as a % of institutional &amp; laundry net sales (60.0 )% (2.8 )% % protective packaging 207.5 201.7 185.1 3 9 as a % of protective packaging net sales 13.1 % 12.7 % 12.6 % other (25.4 ) (11.7 ) (4.4 ) # # as a % of other net sales (12.8 )% (6.4 )% (2.7 )% total segments and other (1,267.2 ) 546.4 542.6 # 1 as a % of net sales (16.6 )% 9.8 % 12.1 % costs related to the acquisition and integration of diversey 7.4 64.8 (89 ) # restructuring and other charges (1) 142.5 52.2 7.6 # # total operating (loss) profit $ (1,417.1 ) $ 429.4 $ 535.0 # % (20 )% as a % of net sales (18.5 )% 7.7 % 11.9 % # denotes a variance greater than or equal to 100%, or not meaningful. (1) restructuring and other charges by our segment reporting structure were as follows: 2012 2011 2010 food &amp; beverage $ 72.0 $ 13.1 $ 3.7 institutional &amp; laundry 53.1 39.5 protective packaging 16.7 (0.4 ) 3.9 other 0.7 total $ 142.5 $ 52.2 $ 7.6 see restructuring activities above for further discussion of restructuring activities. food &amp; beverage segment operating (loss) profit 2012 compared with 2011 2012 operating loss includes the non-cash impairment charge related to goodwill and other intangible assets of $543 million. see note 8, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, for further details. the pre-impairment operating profit remained flat in 2011 and 2012. 30 table of contents 2011 compared with 2010 the increase in operating profit in 2011 compared with 2010 was primarily due to the net favorable impacts of the changes in net sales mentioned above, which was partially offset by higher raw materials costs, which we estimate to be $85 million higher in 2011 compared with 2010. institutional &amp; laundry segment operating (loss) profit 2012 compared with 2011 2012 operating loss includes the non-cash impairment charge related to goodwill and other intangible assets of $1.3 billion. see note 8, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, for further details. the pre-impairment operating profit increased by $62 million in 2012 compared to 2011, which was a result of the increase in net sales described above and lower raw materials costs being partially offset by higher marketing and administration costs. 2011 compared with 2010 the increase in operating profit in 2011 compared with 2010 was due to the acquisition of diversey in the fourth quarter of 2011. protective packaging segment operating profit 2012 compared with 2011 operating profit remained flat in 2012 when compared to 2011. 2011 compared with 2010 the increase in operating profit in 2011 compared with the same periods in 2010 was primarily due to the net favorable impacts of the changes in net sales mentioned above. these factors were partially offset by higher raw materials costs, which we estimate to be $32 million higher in 2011 compared with 2010. other operating (loss) profit 2012 compared with 2011 2012 operating loss includes the non-cash impairment charge of $22 million related to a decision to stop development work on a project included in our new venture business. see note 8, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, for further details. a reduction in the pre-impairment operating loss in 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to lower development spending. 2011 compared with 2010 the decline in operating profit in 2011 compared with 2010 was primarily due to higher raw materials costs, which we estimate to be $8 million higher compared with 2010. also contributing to the decline in operating profit were incremental expenses related to our new ventures. these factors were partially offset by the net favorable impacts of the increases in unit volumes mentioned above. interest expense interest expense includes the stated interest rate on our outstanding debt, as well as the net impact of capitalized interest, the effects of interest rate swaps and the amortization of capitalized senior debt issuance costs, bond discounts, and terminated treasury locks. interest expense for the three years ended december 31, 2012 was as follows: 2012 2011 2010 2012 vs. 2011 change 2011 vs. 2010 change interest expense on the amount payable for the settlement agreement $ 45.7 $ 43.3 $ 41.1 $ 2.4 $ 2.2 interest expense on our various debt instruments: 5.625% senior notes due july 2013 (3) 19.2 20.7 21.9 (1.5 ) (1.2 ) 12% senior notes due february 2014 (1) 15.2 14.7 30.0 0.5 (15.3 ) term loan a due october 2016 (2) 35.8 10.4 25.4 10.4 7.875% senior notes due june 2017 33.3 33.1 33.0 0.2 0.1 term loan b due october 2018 (2) 64.0 17.5 46.5 17.5 8.125% senior notes due september 2019 (2) 62.3 15.1 47.2 15.1 8.375% senior notes due september 2021 (2) 63.8 15.4 48.4 15.4 6.875% senior notes due july 2033 30.9 30.9 30.9 6.50% senior notes due december 2020 (3) 2.5 2.5 revolving credit facility (2) 4.1 1.3 2.8 1.3 other interest expense 13.4 18.4 8.4 (5.0 ) 10.0 less: capitalized interest (5.5 ) (4.2 ) (3.7 ) (1.3 ) (0.5 ) total $ 384.7 $ 216.6 $ 161.6 $ 168.1 $ 55.0 (1) we redeemed $150 million of these notes in december 2010. see loss on debt redemption below. (2) in connection with the acquisition of diversey on october 3, 2011, we entered into the credit facility consisting of: (a) a $1.1 billion multicurrency term loan a facility, (b) a $1.2 billion multicurrency term loan b facility and (c) a $700 million revolving credit facility. we also issued $750 million of 8.125% senior notes and $750 million of 8.375% senior notes. see note 12, debt and credit facilities, for further details. (3) on november 28, 2012, we issued $425 million of 6.50% senior notes. a portion of the proceeds from this offering was used to purchase $400 million of the 5.625% senior notes due july 2013 (the 5.625% notes ). see note 12, debt and credit facilities, and loss on debt redemption below for further details. 31 table of contents loss on debt redemption in november 2012, we issued $425 million of 6.50% senior notes and used substantially all of the proceeds to retire the 5.625% senior notes due july 2013. we repurchased the 5.625% notes at fair value. the aggregate repurchase price was $421 million, which included the principal amount of $400 million, a 3% premium of $13 million and accrued interest of $8 million. we recognized a total net pre-tax loss of $12 million, which included the premiums mentioned above, less a gain of $1 million on the termination of a related interest rate swap. we amended and refinanced our credit facility to (a) reduce term loan b interest rates, (b) gain additional flexibility on financial covenant, and (c) amend certain other terms. as a result, we recognized a pretax loss of $16 million for the accelerated unamortized original issuance discounts of $9 million and the unamortized capitalized lender fees for $7 million. we also recorded new original issuance discount and non-lender fees for a total of $2 million, which are included in the carrying amount of the debt instruments. in addition, we recorded a pre-tax loss of $7 million of non-lender fees related to the transactions mentioned above. see note 12, debt and credit facilities for details of our debt transactions. in december 2010, we completed an early redemption of $150 million of the outstanding $300 million principal amount of our 12% senior notes due february 14, 2014. we redeemed the notes at 127% of the principal amount plus accrued interest. the aggregate redemption price was $196 million, including $5 million of accrued interest. we funded the redemption with available cash. we recorded a pre-tax loss of $41 million resulting from the 27% premium. we also recognized a gain of $2 million from the termination of a related interest rate swap. as a result, the total net pre-tax loss was $39 million, which equated to a $0.14 per common share decrease to our reported net earnings per common share. net gains on sale of available-for-sale securities in 2010, we sold our five auction rate security investments, representing our total holdings of these securities. these sales resulted in a pre-tax gain of $7 million ($4 million, net of taxes). before we sold these investments, we recognized $1 million of pre-tax other-than-temporary impairment in 2010 due to the decline in estimated fair value of some of these investments. foreign currency exchange (losses) gains related to venezuelan subsidiaries effective january 1, 2010, venezuela was designated a highly inflationary economy. the foreign currency exchange gains and losses we recorded in 2012, 2011 and 2010 for our venezuelan subsidiary were the result of two factors: 1) the significant changes in the exchange rates used to settle bolivar-denominated transactions and 2) the significant changes in the exchange rates used to remeasure our venezuelan subsidiary financial statements at the balance sheet date. we believe these gains and losses are attributable to the unstable foreign currency environment in venezuela. see venezuela in foreign exchange rates of item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, for further discussion on venezuela. other expense, net see note 20, other expense, net, for the components and discussion of other expense, net. income taxes our loss before income taxes from continuing operations for 2012 was reduced by an income tax benefit of $262 million. our effective income tax benefit rate for 2012 was 14% because our net loss resulted from an impairment charge, substantially all of which related to non-deductible goodwill, with no corresponding tax benefit. our core tax rate for the year was 26%. our tax provision for the year benefitted from earnings in jurisdictions with low tax rates and losses in jurisdictions, such as the u.s., with high tax rates, as well as favorable settlements of certain tax disputes totaling $12 million in 2012. the favorable factors were partially offset by losses in jurisdictions where we did not have any tax benefit due to the applicable tax rate or valuation allowances. our effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 30% for 2011 and 25% for 2010. as described below, the legacy-diversey operations and the costs of the diversey acquisition increased our 2011 effective tax rate. for 2011 and 2010, our effective income tax rate was lower than the statutory u.s. federal income tax rate of 35% primarily due to the lower net effective income tax rate on foreign earnings, as well as income tax benefits from tax credits and the domestic manufacturing deduction, partially offset by state income taxes and, in 2011, nondeductible expenses incurred in connection with the diversey acquisition. we expect an effective income tax rate in the range of 25% to 27% in 2013. our effective tax rate also depends on the realization of our deferred tax assets, net of our valuation allowances. we have deferred tax assets related to the settlement agreement, other accruals not yet deductible for tax purposes, foreign tax credits, u.s. and foreign net operating loss carry forwards and investment tax allowances, employee benefit items, and other items. our largest deferred tax asset relates to our settlement agreement as described in note 15, commitments and contingencies. we have established valuation allowances to reduce our deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets depends in part upon our ability to generate future taxable income during the periods in which these temporary differences reverse or our ability to carry back any losses created by the deduction of these temporary differences. we expect to realize these assets over an extended period. if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in the u.s. and certain foreign jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. conversely, if we have sufficient future taxable income in jurisdictions where we have valuation allowances, we may be able to reverse those valuation allowances. our largest deferred tax asset relates to the settlement agreement. we intend to carry back a significant portion of the loss resulting from our deduction under the settlement agreement. our tax benefit with respect thereto may be significantly reduced resulting in an increased tax expense if the funding of the settlement agreement occurs later than 2013 or the price of our common stock at the time of funding of the settlement agreement is less than $17.86 per share. these conditions could result in a significant increase in our effective tax rate and could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in the periods in which these conditions occur. in addition, changes in statutory tax rates or other new legislation or regulation may change our deferred tax assets or liability balances, with either favorable or unfavorable impacts on our effective tax rate. see, material commitments and contingencies, below for further discussion. see note 17, income taxes, for a reconciliation of the u.s. federal statutory rate to our effective tax rate, which also shows the major components of the year over year changes. liquidity and capital resources the discussion that follows contains descriptions of: our material commitments and contingencies; our principal sources of liquidity; our outstanding indebtedness; our historical cash flows and changes in working capital; changes in our stockholders equity; and our derivative financial instruments. 32 table of contents material commitments and contingencies settlement agreement and related costs we recorded a pre-tax charge of $850 million in 2002, of which $513 million represents a cash payment that we are required to make (subject to the satisfaction of the terms and conditions of the settlement agreement) upon the effectiveness of a plan of reorganization in the bankruptcy of w. r. grace &amp; co. we did not use cash in any period with respect to this liability. we currently expect to fund a substantial portion of this payment when it becomes due by using accumulated cash and cash equivalents with the remainder from our committed credit facilities. our new credit facility is available for general corporate purposes, including the payment of the amounts required upon effectiveness of the settlement agreement. see principal sources of liquidity below. the cash payment of $513 million accrues interest at a 5.5% annual rate, which is compounded annually, from december 21, 2002 to the date of payment. this accrued interest was $364 million at december 31, 2012 and is recorded in settlement agreement and related accrued interest on our consolidated balance sheet. the total liability on our consolidated balance sheet was $877 million at december 31, 2012. in addition, the settlement agreement provides for the issuance of 18 million shares of our common stock. since the impact of issuing these shares is dilutive to our eps, under u.s. gaap, they are included in our diluted weighted average number of common shares outstanding in our calculation of eps if the impact of including these shares is dilutive. see note 21, net (loss) earnings per common share, for details of our calculation of eps. tax benefits resulting from the anticipated funding of the settlement agreement were recorded as a $401 million net deferred tax asset on our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2012. this deferred tax asset reflects the cash portion of the settlement agreement and related accrued interest and the value of the 18 million shares of our common stock at the post-split price of $17.86 per share, which was the price when the settlement agreement was reached in 2002. we intend to carry back a significant portion of the loss resulting from our deduction under the settlement agreement. the efficiency of any amount carried back and the benefit therefrom, as well as the benefit from the amount carried forward, may depend upon, among other factors, the year when we fund the settlement agreement. our tax benefit may be significantly reduced resulting in an increased tax expense if we fund the settlement agreement later than 2013. the timing of our funding, however, is subject to factors beyond our control. other facts that will impact our tax benefit include the amount of cash we pay, our tax position and the applicable tax codes, our past and anticipated future earnings in the u.s., as well as the price or our common stock at the time we fund the settlement agreement. for example, our tax benefit will be reduced, resulting in an increased tax expense, if the price of our common stock at the time of funding is less than $17.86 per share. conversely, although our cash tax benefit will increase, any additional benefit resulting from an increased price per share will increase our paid in capital and not decrease our tax expense. if we are unable to generate sufficient u.s. taxable income we could be required to increase our valuation allowance against this deferred tax asset and we may not realize the full cash tax benefit relating to this asset. this could result in a significant increase in our effective tax rate and could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in the periods in which these conditions occur. changes in statutory tax rates or other new legislation or regulation may also change our deferred tax assets or liability balances, with either favorable or unfavorable impacts on our effective tax rate. while the bankruptcy court and the district court have confirmed the pi settlement plan, parties have appealed or otherwise challenged the pi settlement plan and the opinions and orders entered by the bankruptcy court and the district court confirming the pi settlement plan. these matters may be subject to further appeal, challenge, and proceedings before the district court, the third circuit court of appeals, or other courts. parties have challenged various issues with respect to the pi settlement plan and the opinions and orders entered by the bankruptcy court and the district court, including (without limitation) issues relating to releases and injunctions contained in the pi settlement plan. we will continue to review and monitor the progress of the grace bankruptcy proceedings (including appeals and other proceedings relating to the pi settlement plan, the bankruptcy and the amended district court opinions, and the bankruptcy and amended district court confirmation orders), as well as any amendments or changes to the pi settlement plan or to the bankruptcy and the amended district court opinions and confirmation orders, to verify compliance with the settlement agreement. we do not know whether or when a final plan of reorganization (whether the pi settlement plan or another plan of reorganization) will become effective or whether the final plan will be consistent with the terms of the settlement agreement. as mentioned in 2013 outlook above, our full year 2013 diluted net earnings per common share guidance continues to exclude the payment under the settlement agreement, as the timing is unknown. payment under the settlement agreement is expected to be accretive to our post-payment diluted net earnings per common share by approximately $0.13 annually. this range primarily represents the accretive impact on our net earnings from ceasing to accrue any future interest on the settlement amount following the payment. the information set forth in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k in note 18, commitments and contingencies, under the caption settlement agreement and related costs is incorporated herein by reference. cryovac transaction commitments and contingencies the information set forth in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k in note 18, commitments and contingencies, under the caption cryovac transaction commitments and contingencies is incorporated herein by reference. contractual obligations the following table summarizes our principal contractual obligations and sets forth the amounts of required or contingently required cash outlays in 2013 and future years (amounts in millions): payments due by years contractual obligations total 2013 2014-2015 2016-2017 thereafter short-term borrowings $ 39.2 $ 39.2 $ $ $ current portion of long-term debt exclusive of debt discounts and lender fees 1.8 1.8 long-term debt, exclusive of debt discounts and lender fees 4,589.4 633.8 814.4 3,141.2 total debt (1) 4,630.4 41.0 633.8 814.4 3,141.2 interest payments due on long-term debt (2) 2,233.7 290.8 539.5 481.5 921.9 operating leases 229.8 68.9 85.8 39.5 35.6 cash portion of the settlement agreement and related accrued interest (3) 876.9 876.9 first quarter 2013 quarterly cash dividend declared 25.3 25.3 other principal contractual obligations 313.8 172.8 102.9 26.1 12.0 total contractual cash obligations $ 8,309.9 $ 1,475.7 $ 1,362.0 $ 1,361.5 $ 4,110.7 33 table of contents (1) these amounts include principal maturities (at face value) only. these amounts also include our contractual obligations under capital leases of $1.3 million in 2013, $1.8 million in 2014-2015 and $0.2 million in 2016-2017. (2) includes interest payments required under our senior notes issuances and amended credit facility only. the interest payments included above for our term loan a and b were calculated using the following assumptions: interest rates based on stated rates based on libor as of december 31, 2012; all non-u.s. dollar balances are converted using exchange rates as of december 31, 2012; and assumes obligations are repaid when due. (3) this liability is reflected as a current liability due to the uncertainty of the timing of payment. interest accrues on this amount at a rate of 5.5% per annum, compounded annually, until it becomes due and payable. current portion of long-term debt and long-term debt represents the principal amount of the debt required to be repaid in each period. operating leases the contractual operating lease obligations listed in the table above represent estimated future minimum annual rental commitments primarily under non-cancelable real and personal property leases as of december 31, 2012. cash portion of the settlement agreement the settlement agreement is described more fully in settlement agreement and related costs, of note 18, commitments and contingencies. other principal contractual obligations other principal contractual obligations include agreements to purchase an estimated amount of goods, including raw materials, or services, including energy, in the normal course of business. these obligations are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, minimum or variable price provisions and the approximate timing of the purchase. the amounts included in the table above represent the minimum amounts we are obligated to pay under these agreements. we may purchase additional goods or services above the minimum requirements of these obligations and, as a result use additional cash. liability for unrecognized tax benefits at december 31, 2012, we had liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties of $257 million, most of which is included in other liabilities and the remaining balance as a reduction to current deferred tax assets on the consolidated balance sheet. at december 31, 2012, we cannot reasonably estimate the future period or periods of cash settlement of these liabilities. see note 17, income taxes, for further discussion. off-balance sheet arrangements we have reviewed our off-balance sheet arrangements and have determined that none of those arrangements has a material current effect or is reasonably likely to have a material future effect on our consolidated financial statements, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. income tax payments we currently expect to pay between $95 million and $115 million in income taxes in 2013. contributions to defined benefit pension plans we maintain defined benefit pension plans for some of our u.s. and our non-u.s. employees. we currently expect our contributions to these plans be approximately $30 million in 2013. environmental matters we are subject to loss contingencies resulting from environmental laws and regulations, and we accrue for anticipated costs associated with investigatory and remediation efforts when an assessment has indicated that a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. these accruals do not take into account any discounting for the time value of money and are not reduced by potential insurance recoveries, if any. we do not believe that it is reasonably possible that the liability in excess of the amounts that we have accrued for environmental matters will be material to our consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets or cash flows. we reassess environmental liabilities whenever circumstances become better defined or we can better estimate remediation efforts and their costs. we evaluate these liabilities periodically based on available information, including the progress of remedial investigations at each site, the current status of discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the methods and extent of remediation and the apportionment of costs among potentially responsible parties. as some of these issues are decided (the outcomes of which are subject to uncertainties) or new sites are assessed and costs can be reasonably estimated, we adjust the recorded accruals, as necessary. we believe that these exposures are not material to our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we believe that we have adequately reserved for all probable and estimable environmental exposures. principal sources of liquidity we require cash to fund our operating expenses, capital expenditures, interest, taxes and dividend payments and to pay our debt obligations and other long-term liabilities as they come due. our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, accumulated cash and amounts available under our existing lines of credit described below, including the amended credit facility, and our accounts receivable securitization program. we believe that our current liquidity position and future cash flows from operations will enable us to fund our operations, including all of the items mentioned above, and the cash payment under the settlement agreement should it become payable within the next 12 months. see note 12, debt and credit facilities, for further details. cash and cash equivalents the following table summarizes our accumulated cash and cash equivalents: december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 cash and cash equivalents $ 679.6 $ 703.6 see analysis of historical cash flows below. 34 table of contents lines of credit effective november 14, 2012, we amended the revolving credit facility. the amended revolving credit facility may be used for working capital needs and general corporate purposes, including the payment of the amounts required upon effectiveness of the settlement agreement. we used our amended revolving credit facility in connection with the sale of diversey japan and the refinancing of term loan a in 2012. interest paid for 2011 and 2012 under the original revolving credit facility and the amended revolving credit facility was insignificant. there were no amounts outstanding under the original revolving credit facility at december 31, 2011 and the amended revolving credit facility at december 31, 2012. see note 12, debt and credit facilities, for further details. accounts receivable securitization program at december 31, 2012, we had $112 million available to us under the program. we did not utilize this program in 2012 and 2011. see note 9, accounts receivable securitization program, for information concerning this program. covenants at december 31, 2012 and 2011, we were in compliance with our financial covenants and limitations, as discussed in covenants of note 12, debt and credit facilities. debt ratings our cost of capital and ability to obtain external financing may be affected by our debt ratings, which the credit rating agencies review periodically. below is a table that details our credit ratings by the various types of debt by rating agency. moody investor services standard &amp; poor corporate rating ba3 bb- senior unsecured rating b1 bb- senior secured credit facility rating ba1 bb outlook stable stable these credit ratings are considered to be below investment grade. if our credit ratings are downgraded, there could be a negative impact on our ability to access capital markets and borrowing costs could increase. a credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. outstanding indebtedness at december 31, 2012 and 2011, our total debt outstanding consisted of the amounts set forth in the following table. december 31, 2012 2011 short-term borrowings $ 39.2 $ 34.5 current portion of long-term debt 1.8 1.9 total current debt 41.0 36.4 total long-term debt, less current portion 4,540.8 4,966.7 total debt $ 4,581.8 $ 5,003.1 see note 12, debt and credit facilities, for further details. analysis of historical cash flow the following table shows the changes in our consolidated cash flows from continuing operations in the three years ended december 31, 2012. 2012 2011 2010 net cash provided by operating activities $ 404.4 $ 372.2 $ 483.1 net cash used in investing activities (116.5 ) (2,370.0 ) (96.9 ) net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (585.1 ) 2,016.4 (373.0 ) net cash provided by operating activities 2012 net cash provided by continuing operating activities in 2012 was primarily attributable to net earnings adjusted to reconcile to net cash provided by operating activities of $419 million, which primarily included adjustments for depreciation and amortization, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, and share-based incentive compensation expenses. net cash provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted in a net cash use of $14 million in 2012. 2011 net cash provided by continuing operating activities in 2011 was primarily attributable to net earnings adjusted to reconcile to net cash provided by operating activities of $387 million, which primarily included adjustments for depreciation and amortization, costs related to the acquisition of diversey and share-based incentive compensation expenses. net cash provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted in a net spending of cash of $14 million in 2011. net cash used in investing activities 2012 in 2012, we used net cash of $117 million in investing activities, which was primarily due to capital expenditures of $124 million. 35 table of contents 2011 in 2011, we used net cash of $2.4 billion in investing activities due to capital expenditures of $123 million and the acquisition of diversey for $2.2 billion. see note 4, acquisition of diversey holdings, inc. for further information. we expect to continue to invest capital as we deem appropriate to expand our business, to maintain or replace depreciating property, plant and equipment, to acquire new manufacturing technology and to improve productivity and net sales growth. we expect total capital expenditures in 2013 to be approximately $160 million, which include capital expenditures of $10 million associated with the 2011-2014 integration and optimization program. this projection is based upon our capital expenditure budget for 2013, the status of approved but not yet completed capital projects, anticipated future projects and historic spending trends. net cash (used in) provided by financing activities 2012 net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to the following: repurchase of $400 million on 5.625% senior notes due july 2013 for $421 million; prepayment of $185 million on term loan a; prepayment of $1.1 billion on term loan b; and payment of $101 million of quarterly dividends, partially offset by: issuance of $425 million of 6.50% senior notes due december 2020. refinancing of $80 million of term loan a; and refinancing of $801 million on term loan b. 2011 net cash provided by financing activities was primarily due to the following: net proceeds of $1.1 billion from term loan b; net proceeds of $946 million from term loan a; issuance of $750 million of 8.125% senior notes due september 2019; issuance of $750 million of 8.375% senior notes due september 2021; and changes in restricted cash of $263 million, which was used in connection with the acquisition of diversey holdings, inc. partially offset by: the repayment of existing indebtedness of diversey of $1.6 billion, in connection with the acquisition of diversey; the payment of our required 2011 and prepayment of our required 2012 term loan a facility and term loan b facility amortization payments totaling $97 million; the payment of quarterly dividends of $87 million; net payments of short-term borrowings of $7 million; payments of debt issuance costs of $51 million in connection with the financing of the acquisition of diversey; and the acquisition of 0.5 million shares of common stock with a fair market value of $13 million that were withheld from employees to satisfy their minimum tax withholding obligations under our 2005 contingent stock plan. changes in working capital december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 increase working capital (current assets less current liabilities) $ 888.8 $ 844.0 $ 44.8 current ratio (current assets divided by current liabilities) 1.4 x 1.3 x quick ratio (current assets, less inventories divided by current liabilities) 1.1 x 1.0 x the $45 million increase, or 5%, in working capital in the year ended december 31, 2012 was primarily due to the following factors: net cash provided by operating activities of $404 million; and net cash received from discontinued operations of $262 million, including the proceeds from the sale of diversey japan. partially offset by: the payment of quarterly dividends of $101 million; and the payments of long-term debt net of proceeds of $453 million. changes in stockholders equity the $1.5 billion, or 51%, decrease in stockholders equity in 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to the decrease in retained earnings of $1.5 billion, which reflects our net loss, including the impairment charge related to goodwill and other intangible assets of $1.6 billion, net of taxes. see note 8, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, for further details. 36 table of contents derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps the information set forth in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k in note 12, derivatives and hedging activities, under the caption interest rate swaps is incorporated herein by reference. foreign currency forward contracts at december 31, 2012, we were party to foreign currency forward contracts, which did not have a significant impact on our liquidity. the information set forth in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k in note 12, derivatives and hedging activities, under the caption foreign currency forward contracts is incorporated herein by reference. for further discussion about these contracts and other financial instruments, see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. recently issued statements of financial accounting standards, accounting guidance and disclosure requirements we are subject to numerous recently issued statements of financial accounting standards, accounting guidance and disclosure requirements. note 2, summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards, which is contained in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k, describes these new accounting standards and is incorporated herein by reference. critical accounting policies and estimates our discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap. the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. our estimates and assumptions are evaluated on an ongoing basis and are based on all available evidence, including historical experience and other factors believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. to derive these estimates and assumptions, management draws from those available sources that can best contribute to its efforts. these sources include our officers and other employees, outside consultants and legal counsel, experts and actuaries. in addition, we use internally generated reports and statistics, such as aging of accounts receivable, as well as outside sources such as government statistics, industry reports and third-party research studies. the results of these estimates and assumptions may form the basis of the carrying value of assets and liabilities and may not be readily apparent from other sources. actual results may differ from estimates under conditions and circumstances different from those assumed, and any such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. we believe the following accounting policies are critical to understanding our consolidated results of operations and affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. the critical accounting policies discussed below should be read together with our significant accounting policies set forth in note 2, summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards. accounts receivable and allowance for doubtful accounts in the normal course of business, we extend credit to our customers if they satisfy pre-defined credit criteria. we maintain an accounts receivable allowance for estimated losses resulting from the failure of our customers to make required payments. an additional allowance may be required if the financial condition of our customers deteriorates. the allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that management assesses to be appropriate to absorb estimated losses in the accounts receivable portfolio. the allowance for doubtful accounts is reviewed quarterly, and changes to the allowance are made through the provision for bad debts, which is included in marketing, administrative and development expenses on our consolidated statements of operations. these changes may reflect changes in economic, business and market conditions. the allowance is increased by the provision for bad debts and decreased by the amount of charge-offs, net of recoveries. the provision for bad debts charged against operating results is based on several factors including, but not limited to, a regular assessment of the collectability of specific customer balances, the length of time a receivable is past due and our historical experience with our customers. in circumstances where a specific customer inability to meet its financial obligations is known, we record a specific provision for bad debt against amounts due thereby reducing the receivable to the amount we reasonably assess will be collected. if circumstances change, such as higher than expected defaults or an unexpected material adverse change in a major customer ability to pay, our estimates of recoverability could be reduced by a material amount. fair value measurements of financial instruments in determining fair value of financial instruments, we utilize valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs to the extent possible and consider counterparty credit risk in our assessment of fair value. we determine fair value of our financial instruments based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability in the principal or most advantageous market. when considering market participant assumptions in fair value measurements, the following fair value hierarchy distinguishes between observable and unobservable inputs, which are categorized in one of the following levels: level 1 inputs: unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities accessible to the reporting entity at the measurement date. level 2 inputs: other than quoted prices included in level 1 inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. level 3 inputs: unobservable inputs for the asset or liability used to measure fair value to the extent that observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at measurement date. our fair value measurements for our financial instruments are subjective and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment. changes in assumptions could significantly affect our estimates. see note 14, fair value measurements and other financial instruments, for further details on our fair value measurements. commitments and contingencies litigation on an ongoing basis, we assess the potential liabilities and costs related to any lawsuits or claims brought against us. we accrue a liability when we believe a loss is probable and when the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. litigation proceedings are evaluated on a case-by-case basis considering the available information, including that received from internal and outside legal counsel, to assess potential outcomes. while it is typically very difficult to determine the timing and ultimate outcome of these actions, we use our best judgment to determine if it is probable that we will incur an expense related to the settlement or final adjudication of these matters and whether a reasonable estimation of the probable loss, if any, can be made. in assessing probable losses, we consider insurance recoveries, if any. we 37 table of contents expense legal costs, including those legal costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency, as incurred. we have in the past adjusted existing accruals as proceedings have continued, been settled or otherwise provided further information on which we could review the likelihood of outflows of resources and their measurability, and we expect to do so in future periods. due to the inherent uncertainties related to the eventual outcome of litigation and potential insurance recovery, it is possible that disputed matters may be resolved for amounts materially different from any provisions or disclosures that we have previously made. impairment of long-lived assets for finite-lived intangible assets, such as customer relationships, contracts and intellectual property, and for other long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment, whenever impairment indicators are present, we perform a review for impairment. we calculate the undiscounted value of the projected cash flows associated with the asset, or asset group, and compare this estimated amount to the carrying amount. if the carrying amount is found to be greater, we record an impairment loss for the excess of book value over the fair value. in addition, in all cases of an impairment review, we re-evaluate the remaining useful lives of the assets and modify them as appropriate. for indefinite lived intangible assets, such as in-process research and development and trademarks and trade names, each year and whenever impairment indicators are present, we determine the fair value of the asset and record an impairment loss for the excess of book value over fair value, if any. in addition, in all cases of an impairment review other than for in-process research and development assets, we re-evaluate whether continuing to characterize the asset as indefinite lived is appropriate. goodwill goodwill is reviewed for possible impairment at least annually on a reporting unit level during the fourth quarter of each year. a review of goodwill may be initiated before or after conducting the annual analysis if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable. a reporting unit is the operating segment unless, at businesses one level below that operating segment the component level discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management, and the component has economic characteristics that are different from the economic characteristics of the other components of the operating segment, in which case the component is the reporting unit. we use a fair value approach to test goodwill for impairment. we must recognize a non-cash impairment charge for the amount, if any, by which the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. we derive an estimate of fair values for each of our reporting units using a combination of an income approach and appropriate market approaches, each based on an applicable weighting. we assess the applicable weighting based on such factors as current market conditions and the quality and reliability of the data. absent an indication of fair value from a potential buyer or similar specific transactions, we believe that the use of these methods provides a reasonable estimate of a reporting unit fair value. fair value computed by these methods is arrived at using a number of factors, including projected future operating results, anticipated future cash flows, effective income tax rates, comparable marketplace data within a consistent industry grouping, and the cost of capital. there are inherent uncertainties, however, related to these factors and to our judgment in applying them to this analysis. nonetheless, we believe that the combination of these methods provides a reasonable approach to estimate the fair value of our reporting units. assumptions for sales, net earnings and cash flows for each reporting unit were consistent among these methods. income approach used to determine fair values the income approach is based upon the present value of expected cash flows. expected cash flows are converted to present value using factors that consider the timing and risk of the future cash flows. the estimate of cash flows used is prepared on an unleveraged debt-free basis. we use a discount rate that reflects a market-derived weighted average cost of capital. we believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon the reporting unit expected long-term operating and cash flow performance. the projections are based upon our best estimates of projected economic and market conditions over the related period including growth rates, estimates of future expected changes in operating margins and cash expenditures. other significant estimates and assumptions include terminal value long-term growth rates, provisions for income taxes, future capital expenditures and changes in future cashless, debt-free working capital. market approaches used to determine fair values each year we consider various relevant market approaches that could be used to determine fair value. the first market approach estimates the fair value of the reporting unit by applying multiples of operating performance measures to the reporting unit operating performance. these multiples are derived from comparable publicly-traded companies with similar investment characteristics to the reporting unit, and such comparables are reviewed and updated as needed annually. we believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate using multiples from entities with operations and economic characteristics comparable to our reporting units and the company. the second market approach is based on the publicly traded common stock of the company, and the estimate of fair value of the reporting unit is based on the applicable multiples of the company. the third market approach is based on recent mergers and acquisitions of comparable publicly-traded and privately-held companies in the our industries. the key estimates and assumptions that are used to determine fair value under these market approaches include trailing and future 12-month operating performance results and the selection of the relevant multiples to be applied. under the first and second market approaches, a control premium, or an amount that a buyer is usually willing to pay over the current market price of a publicly traded company, is applied to the calculated equity values to adjust the public trading value upward for a 100% ownership interest, where applicable. see note 8, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, for details of our goodwill balance and the goodwill review performed in 2012 and other related information. pensions for a number of our u.s. employees and our international employees, we maintain defined benefit pension plans. under current accounting standards, we are required to make assumptions regarding the valuation of projected benefit obligations and the performance of plan assets for our defined benefit pension plans. the projected benefit obligation and the net periodic benefit cost are based on third-party actuarial assumptions and estimates that are reviewed and approved by management on a plan-by-plan basis each fiscal year. the principal assumptions concern the discount rate used to measure the projected benefit obligation, the expected future rate of return on plan assets and the expected rate of future compensation increases. we revise these assumptions based on an annual evaluation of long-term trends and market conditions that may have an impact on the cost of providing retirement benefits. in determining the discount rate, we utilize market conditions and other data sources management considers reasonable based upon the profile of the remaining service life of eligible employees. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is determined by taking into consideration the weighted-average expected return on our asset allocation, asset return data, historical return data, and the economic environment. we believe these considerations provide the basis for reasonable assumptions of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. the rate of compensation increase is based on our long-term plans for such increases. the measurement date used to determine the benefit obligation and plan assets is december 31. 38 table of contents at december 31, 2012, the total projected benefit obligation for our u.s. pension plans was $210 million, and the total net periodic benefit cost for the year ended december 31, 2012 was $1 million. at december 31, 2012, the total projected benefit obligation for our international pension plans was $1.0 billion, and the total net periodic benefit cost for the year ended december 31, 2012 was $16 million. in general, material changes to the principal assumptions could have a material impact on the costs and liabilities recognized on our consolidated financial statements. a 25 basis point change in the assumed discount rate and a 100 basis point change in the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets would have resulted in the following increases (decreases) in the projected benefit obligation at december 31, 2012 and the expected net periodic benefit cost for the year ended december 31, 2013 (in millions). united states 25 basis point increase 25 basis point decrease discount rate effect on 2012 projected benefit obligation $ (5.4 ) $ 5.6 effect on 2013 expected net periodic benefit cost 100 basis point increase 100 basis point decrease return on assets effect on 2013 expected net periodic benefit cost $ (1.7 ) $ 1.7 international 25 basis point increase 25 basis point decrease discount rate effect on 2012 projected benefit obligation $ (42.6 ) $ 45.4 effect on 2013 expected net periodic benefit cost (1.9 ) 3.3 100 basis point increase 100 basis point decrease return on assets effect on 2013 expected net periodic benefit cost $ (8.1 ) $ 8.1 income taxes estimates and judgments are required in the calculation of tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of our deferred tax assets. our deferred tax assets arise from net deductible temporary differences, tax benefit carry forwards and foreign tax credits. we evaluate whether our taxable earnings during the periods when the temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets become deductible or when tax benefit carry forwards may be utilized should be sufficient to realize the related future income tax benefits. for those jurisdictions where the expiration dates of tax benefit carry forwards or the projected taxable earnings indicate that realization is not likely, we provide a valuation allowance. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable earnings, with consideration for the feasibility of ongoing planning strategies and the realizability of tax benefit carry forwards and past operating results, to determine which deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized in the future. changes to tax laws, statutory tax rates and future taxable earnings can have an impact on valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets. in the event that actual results differ from these estimates in future periods, we may need to adjust the valuation allowance, which could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. in calculating our worldwide provision for income taxes, we also evaluate our tax positions for years where the statutes of limitations have not expired. based on this review, we may establish reserves for additional taxes and interest that could be assessed upon examination by relevant tax authorities. we adjust these reserves to take into account changing facts and circumstances, including the results of tax audits and changes in tax law. if the payment of additional taxes and interest ultimately proves unnecessary or less than the amount of the reserve, the reversal of the reserves would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the reserves are no longer necessary. if an estimate of tax reserves proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to income tax provision would result. these adjustments to reserves and related expenses could materially affect our consolidated financial statements. we recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. the tax benefits recognized in the consolidated financial statements from such positions are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon settlement with tax authorities. see note 17, income taxes, for further discussion. 39 table of contents summarized quarterly financial information (unaudited, in millions, except share data) (1)(2) 2012 first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter net sales $ 1,845.4 $ 1,924.6 $ 1,900.3 $ 1,977.8 gross profit 621.1 628.3 643.6 651.3 net earnings (loss) from continuing operations (8.4 ) (20.7 ) (1,238.3 ) (342.7 ) net earnings from discontinued operations 2.4 7.0 5.9 184.5 net (loss) earnings available to common stockholders (6.0 ) (13.7 ) (1,232.4 ) (158.2 ) basic net earnings (loss) per common share continuing operations $ (0.04 ) $ (0.11 ) $ (6.41 ) $ (1.78 ) discontinued operations 0.01 0.04 0.03 0.95 net earnings (loss) per common share basic $ (0.03 ) $ (0.07 ) $ (6.38 ) $ (0.83 ) diluted net earnings per common share continuing operations $ (0.04 ) $ (0.11 ) $ (6.41 ) $ (1.78 ) discontinued operations 0.01 0.04 0.03 0.95 net earnings (loss) per common share diluted $ (0.03 ) $ (0.07 ) $ (6.38 ) $ (0.83 ) 2011 first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter net sales $ 1,128.5 $ 1,212.6 $ 1,247.1 $ 1,962.8 gross profit 309.0 324.3 335.7 631.4 net earnings (loss) from continuing operations 59.7 65.0 73.7 (59.8 ) net earnings from discontinued operations 10.6 net earnings (loss) available to common stockholders 59.7 65.0 73.7 (49.2 ) basic net earnings (loss) per common share continuing operations $ 0.37 $ 0.41 $ 0.46 $ (0.31 ) discontinued operations 0.06 net earnings (loss) per common share basic $ 0.37 $ 0.41 $ 0.46 $ (0.25 ) diluted net earnings (loss) per common share continuing operations $ 0.34 $ 0.37 $ 0.41 $ (0.31 ) discontinued operations 0.06 net earnings (loss) per common share diluted $ 0.34 $ 0.37 $ 0.41 $ (0.25 ) (1) includes the financial results of diversey for the periods beginning october 3, 2011. see note 4, acquisition of diversey holdings, inc., for further information about the acquisition and related transactions and the acquisition accounting. (2) on november 14, 2012, we completed the sale of diversey japan. operating results for diversey japan were reclassified to discontinued operations for the periods beginning october 3, 2011. see note 3, divestiture, for further information about the sale. 40 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in the conditions in the global financial markets, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices and the creditworthiness of our customers and suppliers, which may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we seek to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. we do not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rates from time to time, we may use interest rate swaps, collars or options to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. at december 31, 2012, we had no outstanding interest rate swaps, collars or options. the information set forth in item 8 of part ii of this annual report on form 10-k in note 13, derivatives and hedging activities, under the caption interest rate swaps is incorporated herein by reference. see note 14, fair value measurements and other financial instruments, for details of the methodology and inputs used to determine the fair value of our fixed rate debt. the fair value of our fixed rate debt varies with changes in interest rates. generally, the fair value of fixed rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease of $110 million in the fair value of the total debt balance at december 31, 2012. these changes in the fair value of our fixed rate debt do not alter our obligations to repay the outstanding principal amount or any related interest of such debt. foreign exchange rates operations as a large global organization, we face exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could materially impact our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in the future. see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, above for the impacts foreign currency translation had on our operations. venezuela economic events in venezuela have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risk. effective january 1, 2010, venezuela was designated a highly inflationary economy under u.s. gaap, and the u.s. dollar replaced the bolivar fuerte as the functional currency for our subsidiaries in venezuela. accordingly, all bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities were re-measured into u.s. dollars using the then current exchange rate available to us, and any changes in the exchange rate were reflected in foreign currency exchange gains and losses related to our venezuelan subsidiaries on the consolidated statement of operations. as a result of the changes in the exchange rates upon settlement of bolivar-denominated transactions and upon the remeasurement of our venezuelan subsidiaries financial statements, we recognized nominal net losses for the year ended december 31, 2012 and 2011 and net gains of $6 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. for the year ended december 31, 2012, less than 1% of our consolidated net sales and $5 million of operating profit were derived from our businesses in venezuela. as of december 31, 2012, we had net assets of $70 million in venezuela, which primarily consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $31 million. also, as of december 31, 2012, our venezuelan subsidiaries had a negative cumulative translation adjustment balance of $46 million. the potential future impact to our consolidated financial condition and results of operations for bolivar-denominated transactions will depend on our access to u.s. dollars and on the exchange rates in effect when we enter into, remeasure and settle transactions. therefore, it is difficult to predict the future impact until each transaction settles at its applicable exchange rate or gets remeasured into u.s. dollars. we used the official exchange rate at december 31, 2012 of 4.3 bolivars to the u.s. dollar to re-measure the assets and liabilities of our venezuelan subsidiaries for u.s gaap financial statement presentation. on february 8, 2013, the venezuelan government announced a devaluation of the bolivar to an exchange rate of 6.3 bolivars to the u.s. dollar, an approximate 32% devaluation, which we estimate may result in a pre-tax loss of approximately $10 million to $15 million in the first quarter of 2013. this pre-tax loss, which would be included in other income and expense on our consolidated statements of operations is mainly due to the remeasurement of the cash balances held in bolivars. continuing restrictions on the foreign currency exchange market could affect our venezuelan operations ability to pay obligations denominated in u.s. dollars as well as our ability to benefit from those operations. foreign currency forward contracts we use foreign currency forward contracts to fix the amounts payable or receivable on some transactions denominated in foreign currencies. a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates at december 31, 2012 would have caused us to pay approximately $87 million to terminate these contracts. based on our overall foreign exchange exposure, we estimate this change would not materially affect our financial position and liquidity. the effect on our results of operations would be substantially offset by the impact of the hedged items. our foreign currency forward contracts are described in note 13, derivatives and hedging activities, which is contained in part ii, item 8, and in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources derivative financial instruments foreign currency forward contracts, contained in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k, which information is incorporated herein by reference. we may use other derivative instruments from time to time, such as foreign exchange options to manage exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rate and currency swaps related to certain financing transactions. these instruments can potentially limit foreign exchange exposure and limit or adjust interest rate exposure by swapping borrowings denominated in one currency for borrowings denominated in another currency. at december 31, 2012, we had no foreign exchange options or interest rate and currency swap agreements outstanding. outstanding debt our outstanding debt is generally denominated in the functional currency of the borrower. we believe that this enables us to better match operating cash flows with debt service requirements and to better match the currency of assets and liabilities. the amount of outstanding debt denominated in a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar was $429 million at december 31, 2012 and $633 million at december 31, 2011. 41 table of contents customer credit we are exposed to credit risk from our customers. in the normal course of business we extend credit to our customers if they satisfy pre-defined credit criteria. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the failure of our customers to make required payments. an additional allowance may be required if the financial condition of our customers deteriorates. the allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that management assesses to be appropriate to absorb estimated losses in the accounts receivable portfolio. our customers may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. our provision for bad debt expense was $14 million in 2012, $9 million in 2011 and $7 million in 2010. the allowance for doubtful accounts was $26 million at december 31, 2012 and $16 million at december 31, 2011. pensions recent market conditions have resulted in an unusually high degree of volatility and increased risks and short-term liquidity concerns associated with some of the plan assets held by our defined benefit pension plans, which have impacted the performance of some of the plan assets. based upon the annual valuation of our defined benefit pension plans at december 31, 2012, we expect our net periodic benefit costs to be approximately $18 million in 2013. see note 15, profit sharing, retirement savings plans and defined benefit pension plans, for further details on our defined benefit pension plans. commodities we use various commodity raw materials such as plastic resins and other chemicals and energy products such as electric power and natural gas in conjunction with our manufacturing processes. generally, we acquire these components at market prices in the region in which they will be used and do not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. moreover, we seek to maintain appropriate levels of commodity raw material inventories thus minimizing the expense and risks of carrying excess inventories. we do not typically purchase substantial quantities in advance of production requirements. as a result, we are exposed to market risks related to changes in commodity prices of these components. 42 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors introduction the risks described below should be carefully considered before making an investment decision. these are the most significant risk factors, but they are not the only risk factors that should be considered in making an investment decision. this form 10-k also contains and may incorporate by reference forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. see the cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements, in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. the trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks, and investors in our securities may lose all or part of their investment. 13 table of contents uncertain global economic conditions have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. uncertain global economic conditions have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business in the form of lower net sales due to weakened demand, unfavorable changes in product price/mix, or lower profit margins. for example, global economic downturns have adversely impacted some of our end-users and customers, such as food processors, distributors, supermarket retailers, hotels, restaurants, retail establishments, other retailers, business service contractors and e-commerce and mail order fulfillment firms, and other end-users that are particularly sensitive to business and consumer spending. during economic downturns or recessions, there can be a heightened competition for sales and increased pressure to reduce selling prices as our customers may reduce their volume of purchases from us. if we lose significant sales volume or reduce selling prices significantly, then there could be a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations, profitability and cash flows. also, reduced availability of credit may adversely affect the ability of some of our customers and suppliers to obtain funds for operations and capital expenditures. this could negatively impact our ability to obtain necessary supplies as well as our sales of materials and equipment to affected customers. this also could result in reduced or delayed collections of outstanding accounts receivable. the global nature of our operations exposes us to numerous risks that could materially adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we operate in 63 countries, and our products are distributed in those countries as well as in other parts of the world. a large portion of our manufacturing operations are located outside of the united states and a majority of our net sales are generated outside of the united states. operations outside of the united states, particularly operations in developing regions, are subject to various risks that may not be present or as significant for our u.s. operations. economic uncertainty in some of the geographic regions in which we operate, including developing regions, could result in the disruption of commerce and negatively impact cash flows from our operations in those areas. risks inherent in our international operations include: foreign currency exchange controls and tax rates; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including devaluations; the potential for changes in regional and local economic conditions, including local inflationary pressures; restrictive governmental actions such as those on transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection matters, including antidumping duties, tariffs, embargoes and prohibitions or restrictions on acquisitions or joint ventures; changes in laws and regulations, including the laws and policies of the united states affecting trade and foreign investment; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; variations in protection of intellectual property and other legal rights; more expansive legal rights of foreign unions or works councils; changes in labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; social plans that prohibit or increase the cost of certain restructuring actions; the potential for nationalization of enterprises or facilities; and unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against u.s. or other interests. 14 table of contents in addition, there are potential tax inefficiencies and tax costs in repatriating funds from our non-u.s. subsidiaries. these and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. although the settlement agreement (as defined in note 18, commitments and contingencies ) has been implemented and we have been released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against us arising from a 1998 transaction with grace (as defined below), if the courts were to refuse to enforce the injunctions or releases contained in the plan (as defined below) and the settlement agreement with respect to any claims and if grace were unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us for such claims, then we could be required to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we are also a defendant in a number of asbestos-related actions in canada arising from grace activities in canada prior to the 1998 transaction. on march 31, 1998, sealed air completed a multi-step transaction (the cryovac transaction ) involving w.r. grace &amp; co. ( grace ) which brought the cryovac packaging business and the former sealed air business under the common ownership of the company. as part of that transaction, grace and its subsidiaries retained all liabilities arising out of their operations before the cryovac transaction (including asbestos-related liabilities), other than liabilities relating to cryovac operations, and agreed to indemnify the company with respect to such retained liabilities. since the beginning of 2000, we have been served with a number of lawsuits alleging that, as a result of the cryovac transaction, we are responsible for alleged asbestos liabilities of grace and its subsidiaries. while they vary, these suits all appear to allege that the transfer of the cryovac business was a fraudulent transfer or gave rise to successor liability. on april 2, 2001, grace and a number of its subsidiaries filed petitions for reorganization under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code in the u.s. bankruptcy court for the district of delaware (the bankruptcy court ). in connection with grace chapter 11 case, the bankruptcy court issued orders dated may 3, 2001 and january 22, 2002, staying all asbestos actions against the company (the preliminary injunction ). however, the official committees appointed to represent asbestos claimants in grace chapter 11 case (the committees ) received the court permission to pursue fraudulent transfer and other claims against the company and its subsidiary cryovac, inc. based upon the cryovac transaction. this proceeding was brought in the u.s. district court for the district of delaware (the district court ) (adv. no. 02-02210). on november 27, 2002, we reached an agreement in principle with the committees to resolve all current and future asbestos-related claims made against us and our affiliates in connection with the cryovac transaction. the settlement agreement provided for the resolution of the fraudulent transfer claims and successor liability claims, as well as indemnification claims by fresenius medical care holdings, inc. and affiliated companies in connection with the cryovac transaction. the parties to the agreement in principle signed the definitive settlement agreement as of november 10, 2003 consistent with the terms of the agreement in principle. on june 27, 2005, the bankruptcy court signed an order approving the settlement agreement. although grace is not a party to the settlement agreement, under the terms of the order, grace is directed to comply with the settlement agreement subject to limited exceptions. on september 19, 2008, grace, the official committee of asbestos personal injury claimants, the asbestos pi future claimants representative, and the official committee of equity security holders filed, as co-proponents, a plan of reorganization (as filed and amended from time to time, the plan ) and several exhibits and associated documents, including a disclosure statement, with the bankruptcy court. the plan provides for the establishment of two asbestos trusts under section 524(g) of the united states bankruptcy code to which present and future asbestos-related personal injury and property damage claims are channeled. the plan incorporates the settlement agreement, including our payment of amounts contemplated by the settlement agreement and the releases and injunctions contemplated by the settlement agreement. 15 table of contents on february 3, 2014 (the effective date ), the plan implementing the settlement agreement became effective with grace emerging from bankruptcy. in accordance with the plan and the settlement agreement, on the effective date, cryovac, inc. made aggregate cash payments in the amount of $929.7 million to the wrg asbestos pi trust (the pi trust ) and the wrg asbestos pd trust (the pd trust ) and transferred 18 million shares of sealed air common stock to the pi trust, in each case reflecting adjustments made in accordance with the settlement agreement. under the plan, the preliminary injunction remained in place through the effective date and, on the effective date, the plan and settlement agreement injunctions and releases with respect to asbestos claims and certain other claims became effective. thereafter, on february 19, 2014, grace filed a motion with the bankruptcy court indicating that the preliminary injunction had been replaced by the plan injunctions as of the effective date and seeking to dismiss with prejudice the proceedings in which the preliminary injunction was issued. the plan further provides for the channeling of existing and future asbestos claims to the pi trust or the pd trust, as applicable. in addition, under the plan and the settlement agreement, grace is required to indemnify us with respect to asbestos and certain other liabilities. notwithstanding the foregoing, and although we believe the possibility to be remote, if any courts were to refuse to enforce the injunctions or releases contained in the plan and the settlement agreement with respect to any claims, and if, in addition, grace were unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us for such claims, then we could be required to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. since november 2004, the company and specified subsidiaries have been named as defendants in a number of cases, including a number of putative class actions, brought in canada as a result of grace alleged marketing, manufacturing or distributing of asbestos or asbestos containing products in canada prior to the cryovac transaction in 1998. grace has agreed to defend and indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases. a global settlement of these canadian claims to be funded by grace has been approved by the canadian court, and the plan provides for payment of these claims. we do not have any positive obligations under the canadian settlement, but we are a beneficiary of the release of claims. the release in favor of the grace parties (including us) became operative upon the effective date of a plan of reorganization in grace united states chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding. as filed, the plan contemplates that the claims released under the canadian settlement will be subject to injunctions under section 524(g) of the bankruptcy code. as indicated above, the bankruptcy court entered the bankruptcy court confirmation order on january 31, 2011 and the clarifying order on february 15, 2011 and the district court entered the original district court confirmation order on january 30, 2012 and the amended district court confirmation order on june 11, 2012. the canadian court issued an order on april 8, 2011 recognizing and giving full effect to the bankruptcy court confirmation order in all provinces and territories of canada in accordance with the bankruptcy court confirmation order terms. as described above, the plan became effective on february 3, 2014. in accordance with an order of the canadian court, on the effective date the actions became permanently stayed until they are amended to remove the grace parties as named defendants. two actions were dismissed by the manitoba court as against the grace parties on february 19, 2014 and it is anticipated that the remaining actions will now also be dismissed. notwithstanding the foregoing, and although we believe the possibility to be remote, if the canadian courts refuse to enforce the final plan of reorganization in the canadian courts, and if in addition grace is unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases, then we could be required to pay substantial damages, which we cannot estimate at this time and which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. for further information concerning these matters, see note 18, commitments and contingencies. as a result of the recent funding of the settlement agreement, a large portion of our common stock was transferred to the pi trust. future sales of our common stock by the pi trust could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. as of february 3, 2014, the pi trust owned approximately 8.4% of our outstanding common stock as a result of the transfer of 18 million shares of our common stock pursuant to the settlement agreement. in connection with the settlement agreement, we entered into a registration rights agreement with the pi trust with respect to these 16 table of contents shares. the registration rights agreement, which includes customary piggyback and shelf registration provisions, requires us to file a registration statement for the resale of the shares of our common stock transferred to the pi trust and to cooperate in certain underwritten offerings. sales by the pi trust of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market pursuant to registration rights or otherwise, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. we may not be able to effect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities, the indentures that govern our senior notes and the agreements covering our accounts receivable securitization programs restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. in addition, we conduct a substantial portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, certain of which are not guarantors of our indebtedness. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. unless they are guarantors of our indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. while the indenture governing certain of our senior notes, these notes and the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities limit the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to qualifications and exceptions. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. if we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could terminate their commitments to loan money, the lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 17 table of contents the terms of our credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities and accounts receivable securitization programs and the indentures governing our senior notes restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. the indentures governing our senior notes and the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to: incur additional indebtedness; pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; make loans and investments; sell assets; incur liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; alter the businesses we conduct; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends; and consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. in addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit agreement governing our senior credit facilities require us to maintain a specified net leverage ratio. our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control. a breach of the covenants under the indenture governing our senior notes or under the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. in addition, an event of default under the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities would permit the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under those facilities. furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our senior secured credit facilities, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. in the event our lenders or noteholders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. as a result of these restrictions, we may be: limited in how we conduct our business; unable to respond to changing market conditions; unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns or to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due; or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. in addition, amounts available under our accounts receivable securitization programs can be impacted by a number of factors, including but not limited to our credit ratings, accounts receivable balances, the creditworthiness of our customers and our receivables collection experience. our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. if interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even 18 table of contents though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. as of december 31, 2013, we had $1.393 billion of borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities at variable interest rates. a 1/8% increase or decrease in the assumed interest rates on the senior secured credit facilities would result in a $0.9 million increase or a $0.9 million decrease in annual interest expense. in the future, we may enter into interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility. however, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. raw material pricing, availability and allocation by suppliers as well as energy-related costs may negatively impact our results of operations, including our profit margins. we use petrochemical-based raw materials to manufacture many of our products. the prices for these raw materials are cyclical, and increases in market demand or fluctuations in the global trade for petrochemical- based raw materials and energy could increase our costs. in addition, the prices of many of the other key raw materials used in our businesses, such as caustic soda, solvents, waxes, phosphates, surfactants, polymers and resins, chelates and fragrances, are cyclical based on numerous supply and demand factors that are beyond our control. if we are unable to minimize the effects of increased raw material costs through sourcing, pricing or other actions, our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we also have some sole-source suppliers, and the lack of availability of supplies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers and suppliers of other raw materials in the future. these factors could lead to increased prices for our raw materials, curtailment of supplies and allocation of raw materials by our suppliers, which could reduce revenues and profit margins and harm relations with our customers and which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. the full realization of our deferred tax assets, including primarily those related to the settlement agreement, may be affected by a number of factors, including our earnings in the u.s. we have deferred tax assets related to the settlement agreement, other accruals not yet deductible for tax purposes, foreign tax credits, u.s. and foreign net operating loss carry forwards and investment tax allowances, employee benefit items and other items. we have established valuation allowances to reduce those deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. our ability to utilize these deferred tax assets depends in part upon our ability to generate future taxable income during the periods in which these temporary differences reverse or our ability to carryback any losses created by the deduction of these temporary differences. we expect to realize these assets over an extended period. if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in the u.s. and certain foreign jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. our largest deferred tax asset relates to our settlement agreement. the value of this net asset, which was $373 million at december 31, 2013, reflects our anticipated tax benefit from the cash portion of the settlement agreement and related accrued interest and the value of 18 million shares of our common stock at a post-split price of $17.86 per share, which was the price when the settlement agreement was reached in 2002. we intend to carry back a significant portion of the loss resulting from our deduction under the settlement agreement. the efficiency of any amount carried back and the benefit there from, as well as the benefit from the amount carried forward, may depend upon, among other factors, our past and anticipated future earnings in the u.s. these factors, including any reduction in our anticipated u.s. earnings, could result in a significant increase in our effective tax rate and could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in the periods 19 table of contents in which any such condition occurs. in addition, changes in statutory tax rates or other legislation or regulation may change our deferred tax assets or liability balances, with either favorable or unfavorable impacts on our effective tax rate. the effects of animal and food-related health issues such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy, also known as mad cow disease, foot-and-mouth disease and avian influenza or bird-flu, as well as other health issues affecting the food industry, may lead to decreased revenues. we manufacture and sell food packaging products, among other products. various health issues affecting the food industry have in the past and may in the future have a negative effect on the sales of food packaging products. in recent years, occasional cases of mad cow disease have been confirmed and incidents of bird-flu have surfaced in various countries. outbreaks of animal diseases may lead governments to restrict exports and imports of potentially affected animals and food products, leading to decreased demand for our products and possibly also to the culling or slaughter of significant numbers of the animal population otherwise intended for food supply. also, consumers may change their eating habits as a result of perceived problems with certain types of food. these factors may lead to reduced sales of food packaging products, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. demand for our products could be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences. our sales depend heavily on the volumes of sales by our customers in the food processing and food service industries. consumer preferences for food and packaging formats of prepackaged food can influence our sales, as can consumer preferences for fresh and unpackaged foods. changes in consumer behavior, including changes in consumer preferences driven by various health-related concerns and perceptions, could negatively impact demand for our products. the consolidation of customers may adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. customers in the food service, food and beverage processing, building care, lodging, industrial distribution and healthcare sectors have been consolidating in recent years, and we believe this trend may continue. such consolidation could have an adverse impact on the pricing of our products and services and our ability to retain customers, which could in turn adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we experience competition in the markets for our products and services and in the geographic areas in which we operate. our packaging products compete with similar products made by other manufacturers and with a number of other types of materials or products. we compete on the basis of performance characteristics of our products, as well as service, price and innovations in technology. a number of competing domestic and foreign companies are well-established. the market for our hygiene products is highly competitive. our hygiene products businesses face significant competition from global, national, regional and local companies within some or all of our product lines in each sector that we serve. barriers to entry and expansion in the institutional and industrial cleaning, sanitation and hygiene industry are low. our inability to maintain a competitive advantage could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes for our products. additionally, we may not successfully implement our pricing actions. these factors may have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 20 table of contents concerns about greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions and climate change and the resulting governmental and market responses to these issues could increase costs that we incur and could otherwise affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives have been enacted and proposed in response to concerns about ghg emissions and climate change. we are a manufacturing entity that utilizes petrochemical-based raw materials to produce many of our products, including plastic packaging materials. increased environmental legislation or regulation could result in higher costs for us in the form of higher raw materials and freight and energy costs. we could also incur additional compliance costs for monitoring and reporting emissions and for maintaining permits. it is also possible that certain materials might cease to be permitted to be used in our processes. disruption and volatility of the financial and credit markets could affect our external liquidity sources. our principal sources of liquidity are accumulated cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flow from operations and amounts available under our lines of credit, including our senior secured credit facilities and our accounts receivable securitization programs. we may be unable to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our senior notes, our accounts receivable securitization programs and our senior secured credit facilities, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. additionally, conditions in financial markets could affect financial institutions with which we have relationships and could result in adverse effects on our ability to utilize fully our committed borrowing facilities. for example, a lender under the senior secured credit facilities may be unwilling or unable to fund a borrowing request, and we may not be able to replace such lender. strengthening of the u.s. dollar and other foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could materially impact our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. approximately 65% of our net sales in 2013 were generated outside the united states. we translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currency into u.s. dollars for our consolidated financial statements. during periods of a strengthening u.s. dollar, our reported international sales and net earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer u.s. dollars. also, while we often produce in the same geographic markets as our products are sold, expenses are more concentrated in the u.s. than sales, so that in a time of strengthening of the u.s. dollar, our profit margins could be reduced. while we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency exposures, this does not insulate us completely from foreign currency effects and exposes us to counterparty credit risk for non-performance. see note 13, derivatives and hedging activities. we have recognized foreign exchange gains and losses related to the currency devaluations in venezuela and its designation as a highly inflationary economy under u.s. gaap. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign exchange rates venezuela. in all jurisdictions in which we operate, we are also subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions. these laws and regulations may limit our ability to repatriate cash as dividends or otherwise to the u.s. and may limit our ability to convert foreign currency cash flows into u.s. dollars. new and stricter legislation and regulations may affect our business and consolidated financial condition and results of operations. increased legislative and regulatory activity and burdens, and a more stringent manner in which they are applied (particularly in the united states), could significantly impact our business and the economy as a whole. for 21 table of contents example, the affordable care act (the aca ), which was adopted in 2010 and is being phased in over several years, significantly affects the provision of both healthcare services and benefits in the united states; the aca may impact our cost of providing our employees and retirees with health insurance and/or benefits, and may also impact various other aspects of our business. we provide benefits to our employees which are competitive within the industries in which we operate. the aca did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations in 2013, 2012 or 2011; however, we are continuing to assess the impact of the aca on our healthcare benefit costs. the regulatory environment is still developing, and the potential exists for future legislation and regulations to be adopted. these developments, as well as the increasingly strict regulatory environment, may also adversely affect the customers to which, and the markets into which, we sell our products, and increase our costs and otherwise negatively affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations, including in ways that cannot yet be foreseen. our annual effective income tax rate can change materially as a result of changes in our mix of u.s. and foreign earnings and other factors, including changes in tax laws and changes made by regulatory authorities. our overall effective income tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of total earnings before tax. however, income tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global basis but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis. losses in one jurisdiction may not be used to offset profits in other jurisdictions and may cause an increase in our tax rate. income tax provision changes in statutory tax rates and laws, as well as ongoing audits by domestic and international authorities, could affect the amount of income taxes and other taxes paid by us. for example, legislative proposals to change u.s. taxation of non-u.s. earnings could increase our effective tax rate. also, changes in the mix of earnings (or losses) between jurisdictions and assumptions used in the calculation of income taxes, among other factors, could have a significant effect on our overall effective income tax rate. in addition, our effective tax rate would increase if we were unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if we were otherwise required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. we are subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. as a result, any adverse development in the tax laws of any of these jurisdictions or any disagreement with our tax positions could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to taxation in, and to the tax laws and regulations of, multiple jurisdictions as a result of the international scope of our operations and our corporate and financing structure. we are also subject to transfer pricing laws with respect to our intercompany transactions, including those relating to the flow of funds among our companies. adverse developments in these laws or regulations, or any change in position regarding the application, administration or interpretation thereof, in any applicable jurisdiction, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of our operations. in addition, the tax authorities in any applicable jurisdiction, including the united states, may disagree with the positions we have taken or intend to take regarding the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions. if any applicable tax authorities, including u.s. tax authorities, were to successfully challenge the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of our operations. our performance and prospects for future growth could be adversely affected if new products do not meet sales or margin expectations. our competitive advantage is due in part to our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the development and introduction cycle of new products can be lengthy and involve high levels of investment. new products may not meet sales or margin expectations due to many factors, including our inability to (i) accurately predict demand, end-user preferences and evolving industry standards; (ii) resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner; or (iii) achieve manufacturing efficiencies. 22 table of contents a major loss of or disruption in our manufacturing and distribution operations or our information systems and telecommunication resources could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we experienced a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or other severe weather event, or a casualty loss from an event such as a fire or flood, at one of our larger strategic facilities or if such event affected a key supplier, our supply chain or our information systems and telecommunication resources, then there could be a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on internal and third party information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. in particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for fulfilling and invoicing customer orders, applying cash receipts, and placing purchase orders with suppliers, making cash disbursements, and conducting digital marketing activities, data processing and electronic communications among business locations. we also seek opportunities to enhance our enterprise reporting systems ( erps ) and are currently in the process of implementing upgrades and new erps. as a result of these implementations, we may experience disruptions in fulfilling and invoicing customer orders, applying cash receipts, and placing purchase orders with suppliers, making cash disbursements, and, data processing and electronic communications among business locations, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we also depend on telecommunication systems for communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. future system disruptions, security breaches or shutdowns could significantly disrupt our operations or result in lost or misappropriated information and may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we recorded a significant amount of additional goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets as a result of the acquisition of diversey, and we may never realize the full carrying value of these assets. as a result of the acquisition of diversey, we recorded a significant amount of additional goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including customer relationships, trademarks and developed technologies. we test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for possible impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. amortizable intangible assets are periodically reviewed for possible impairment whenever there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. impairment may result from, among other things, (i) a decrease in our expected net earnings; (ii) adverse equity market conditions; (iii) a decline in current market multiples; (iv) a decline in our common stock price; (v) a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climates; (vi) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; (vii) heightened competition; (viii) strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions; or (ix) a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of. in the event that we determine that events or circumstances exist that indicate that the carrying value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, we might have to recognize a non-cash impairment of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we recorded impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets in 2012. see note 8, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, for further discussion. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial results or harm our reputation or the value of our brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of our products arise in the ordinary course of our business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions 23 table of contents could result in negative publicity that could harm our reputation in the marketplace or adversely impact the value of our brands or our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. we could also be required to recall possibly defective products, or voluntarily do so, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims could be excluded or exceed coverage limits under the terms of our insurance policies or could result in increased costs for such coverage. the relationship with s.c. johnson &amp; son, inc. ( scj ) is important to our diversey care segment, and any damage to this relationship could have a material adverse effect on this segment. diversey is party to various agreements with scj, including a brand license agreement (the bla ), a technology disclosure and license agreement, and supply and manufacturing agreements. under the bla, diversey is granted a license in specified territories to sell certain scj products and use specified trade names owned by scj in the institutional and industrial channels of trade and, subject to certain limitations, in specified channels of trade in which both our diversey care segment and scj consumer business operate. scj and its affiliates supply products under the bla. sales of these products have historically been significant to our diversey care segment. the bla purports to limit diversey right to market products with non-scj brands that scj has not approved in certain channels of trade in specified countries. if we default under our agreements with scj and the agreements are terminated, scj fails to perform its obligations under these agreements, or our relationship with scj is otherwise damaged or severed, this could have a material adverse effect on our diversey care segment, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. the relationship with unilever plc ( unilever ) is important to our diversey care segment and any damage to this relationship could have a material adverse effect on this segment. in connection with diversey acquisition of the diverseylever business from unilever in 2002, diversey entered into various agreements with unilever, including a license agreement and agency agreement. pursuant to the license agreement, unilever granted 31 diversey subsidiaries a license to produce and sell professional size packs of unilever consumer brand cleaning products. in four countries (the united kingdom, ireland, portugal and brazil), the diversey subsidiaries operate under an agency agreement with unilever. in addition, diversey also holds licenses to use some trademarks and technology of unilever in the market for institutional and industrial cleaning, sanitation and hygiene products and related services. we believe that these agreements are significant to our diversey care segment. if we default under our agreements with unilever and the agreements are terminated, unilever fails to perform its obligations under these agreements, or our relationship with unilever is otherwise damaged or severed, this could have a material adverse effect on our diversey care segment, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we are unable to retain key employees and other personnel, our consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other key personnel. their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us, and we need their expertise to execute our business strategies. if any of our senior management or other key personnel cease to work for us and we are unable to successfully replace any departing senior management or key personnel, our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we could experience disruptions in operations and/or increased labor costs. in europe and latin america, most of our employees are represented by either labor unions or workers councils and are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are generally renewable on an annual basis. as is the case with any negotiation, we may not be able to negotiate acceptable new collective bargaining agreements, which could result in strikes or work stoppages by affected workers. renewal of collective bargaining agreements could also result in higher wages or benefits paid to union members. a disruption in operations or higher ongoing labor costs could materially affect our business. 24 table of contents we are subject to a variety of environmental and product registration laws that expose us to potential financial liability and increased operating costs. our operations are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the manufacture of our products, the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil and water and the use, handling, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. many jurisdictions require us to have operating permits for our production and warehouse facilities and operations. any failure to obtain, maintain or comply with the terms of these permits could result in fines or penalties, revocation or nonrenewal of our permits, or orders to cease certain operations, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we generate, use and dispose of hazardous materials in our manufacturing processes. in the event our operations result in the release of hazardous materials into the environment, we may become responsible for the costs associated with the investigation and remediation of sites at which we have released pollutants, or sites where we have disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes, even if we fully complied with environmental laws at the time of disposal. we have been, and may continue to be, responsible for the cost of remediation at some locations. some jurisdictions have laws and regulations that govern the registration and labeling of some of our products. we expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our european operations as a result of a european union ( eu ) directive registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals (eu directive no. 2006/1907) enacted on december 18, 2006. the directive imposes several requirements related to the identification and management of risks related to chemical substances manufactured or marketed in europe. the eu has also recently enacted a classification, packaging and labeling regulation. other jurisdictions may impose similar requirements. we cannot predict with reasonable certainty the future cost to us of environmental compliance, product registration, or environmental remediation. environmental laws have become more stringent and complex over time. our environmental costs and operating expenses will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the scope and timing of the effectiveness of requirements in these various jurisdictions. as a result of such requirements, we may be subject to an increased regulatory burden, and we expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our operations. increased compliance costs, increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, or our inability to market some of our products in certain jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. the legacy diversey business had tendered various environmental indemnification claims to unilever pursuant to the unilever acquisition agreement (as defined below). under a previous acquisition agreement between the legacy diversey business and unilever (the unilever acquisition agreement ), unilever made warranties to diversey with respect to the facilities formerly owned by unilever. in addition, unilever agreed to indemnify diversey for specified types of environmental liabilities if the aggregate amount of damages meets various dollar thresholds, subject to a cap of $250 million in the aggregate. diversey was required to notify unilever of any environmental indemnification claims by may 3, 2008. any environmental claims pending after this date, with respect to which diversey has notified unilever, remain subject to indemnification until remediation is completed in accordance with the unilever acquisition agreement. diversey has previously tendered various environmental indemnification claims to unilever in connection with former unilever locations. unilever has not indicated its agreement with diversey request for indemnification. we may file additional requests for reimbursement in the future in connection with pending indemnification claims. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover any amounts relating to these indemnification claims from unilever. 25 table of contents our insurance policies may not cover all operating risks and a casualty loss beyond the limits of our coverage could adversely impact our business. our business is subject to operating hazards and risks relating to handling, storing, transporting and use of the products we sell. we maintain insurance policies in amounts and with coverage and deductibles that we believe are reasonable and prudent. nevertheless, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us from all liabilities and expenses that may arise from claims for personal injury or death or property damage arising in the ordinary course of business, and our current levels of insurance may not be maintained or available in the future at economical prices. if a significant liability claim is brought against us that is not adequately covered by insurance, we may have to pay the claim with our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we are not able to protect our trade secrets or maintain our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property, we may not be able to prevent competitors from developing similar products or from marketing their products in a manner that capitalizes on our trademarks, and this loss of a competitive advantage could decrease our profitability and liquidity. our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. if we were unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property and our significant current or proposed products, this loss of a competitive advantage could result in decreased sales or increased operating costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we rely on trade secrets to maintain our competitive position, including protecting the formulation and manufacturing techniques of many of our products. as such, we have not sought u.s. or international patent protection for some of our principal product formulas and manufacturing processes. accordingly, we may not be able to prevent others from developing products that are similar to or competitive with our products. we own a large number of patents and pending patent applications on our products, aspects thereof, methods of use and/or methods of manufacturing. there is a risk that our patents may not provide meaningful protection and patents may never be issued for our pending patent applications. we own, or have licenses to use, all of the material trademark and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our major products both in the united states and in other countries where our products are principally sold. trademark and trade name protection is important to our business. although most of our trademarks are registered in the united states and in the foreign countries in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s. the costs required to protect our trademarks and trade names may be substantial. we cannot be certain that we will be able to assert these intellectual property rights successfully in the future or that they will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute the value of our intellectual property in the marketplace. third parties, including competitors, may assert intellectual property infringement or invalidity claims against us that could be upheld. intellectual property litigation, which could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by us, may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or proprietary technology or for us to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of others proprietary rights. we may not prevail in any such litigation, and if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on reasonable terms or at all. any failure by us to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 26 table of contents cyber risk and the failure to maintain the integrity of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties with which we do business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to an increasing number of information technology vulnerabilities, threats and targeted computer crimes which pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of our networks or systems, could result in the loss of customers and business opportunities, legal liability, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensatory costs, and additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we attempt to mitigate these risks, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced and persistent threats. we also maintain and have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer controls. despite our efforts to protect such sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, our facilities and systems and those of our customers and third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors that could lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our consolidated, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign exchange rates venezuela. in all jurisdictions in which we operate, we are also subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions. these laws and regulations may limit our ability to repatriate cash as dividends or otherwise to the u.s. and may limit our ability to convert foreign currency cash flows into u.s. dollars. new and stricter legislation and regulations may affect our business and consolidated financial condition and results of operations. increased legislative and regulatory activity and burdens, and a more stringent manner in which they are applied (particularly in the united states), could significantly impact our business and the economy as a whole. for 21 table of contents example, the affordable care act (the aca ), which was adopted in 2010 and is being phased in over several years, significantly affects the provision of both healthcare services and benefits in the united states; the aca may impact our cost of providing our employees and retirees with health insurance and/or benefits, and may also impact various other aspects of our business. we provide benefits to our employees which are competitive within the industries in which we operate. the aca did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations in 2013, 2012 or 2011; however, we are continuing to assess the impact of the aca on our healthcare benefit costs. the regulatory environment is still developing, and the potential exists for future legislation and regulations to be adopted. these developments, as well as the increasingly strict regulatory environment, may also adversely affect the customers to which, and the markets into which, we sell our products, and increase our costs and otherwise negatively affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations, including in ways that cannot yet be foreseen. our annual effective income tax rate can change materially as a result of changes in our mix of u.s. and foreign earnings and other factors, including changes in tax laws and changes made by regulatory authorities. our overall effective income tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of total earnings before tax. however, income tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global basis but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis. losses in one jurisdiction may not be used to offset profits in other jurisdictions and may cause an increase in our tax rate. income tax provision changes in statutory tax rates and laws, as well as ongoing audits by domestic and international authorities, could affect the amount of income taxes and other taxes paid by us. for example, legislative proposals to change u.s. taxation of non-u.s. earnings could increase our effective tax rate. also, changes in the mix of earnings (or losses) between jurisdictions and assumptions used in the calculation of income taxes, among other factors, could have a significant effect on our overall effective income tax rate. in addition, our effective tax rate would increase if we were unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if we were otherwise required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. we are subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. as a result, any adverse development in the tax laws of any of these jurisdictions or any disagreement with our tax positions could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to taxation in, and to the tax laws and regulations of, multiple jurisdictions as a result of the international scope of our operations and our corporate and financing structure. we are also subject to transfer pricing laws with respect to our intercompany transactions, including those relating to the flow of funds among our companies. adverse developments in these laws or regulations, or any change in position regarding the application, administration or interpretation thereof, in any applicable jurisdiction, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of our operations. in addition, the tax authorities in any applicable jurisdiction, including the united states, may disagree with the positions we have taken or intend to take regarding the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions. if any applicable tax authorities, including u.s. tax authorities, were to successfully challenge the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of our operations. our performance and prospects for future growth could be adversely affected if new products do not meet sales or margin expectations. our competitive advantage is due in part to our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the development and introduction cycle of new products can be lengthy and involve high levels of investment. new products may not meet sales or margin expectations due to many factors, including our inability to (i) accurately predict demand, end-user preferences and evolving industry standards; (ii) resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner; or (iii) achieve manufacturing efficiencies. 22 table of contents a major loss of or disruption in our manufacturing and distribution operations or our information systems and telecommunication resources could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we experienced a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or other severe weather event, or a casualty loss from an event such as a fire or flood, at one of our larger strategic facilities or if such event affected a key supplier, our supply chain or our information systems and telecommunication resources, then there could be a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on internal and third party information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. in particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for fulfilling and invoicing customer orders, applying cash receipts, and placing purchase orders with suppliers, making cash disbursements, and conducting digital marketing activities, data processing and electronic communications among business locations. we also seek opportunities to enhance our enterprise reporting systems ( erps ) and are currently in the process of implementing upgrades and new erps. as a result of these implementations, we may experience disruptions in fulfilling and invoicing customer orders, applying cash receipts, and placing purchase orders with suppliers, making cash disbursements, and, data processing and electronic communications among business locations, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we also depend on telecommunication systems for communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. future system disruptions, security breaches or shutdowns could significantly disrupt our operations or result in lost or misappropriated information and may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we recorded a significant amount of additional goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets as a result of the acquisition of diversey, and we may never realize the full carrying value of these assets. as a result of the acquisition of diversey, we recorded a significant amount of additional goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including customer relationships, trademarks and developed technologies. we test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for possible impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. amortizable intangible assets are periodically reviewed for possible impairment whenever there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. impairment may result from, among other things, (i) a decrease in our expected net earnings; (ii) adverse equity market conditions; (iii) a decline in current market multiples; (iv) a decline in our common stock price; (v) a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climates; (vi) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; (vii) heightened competition; (viii) strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions; or (ix) a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of. in the event that we determine that events or circumstances exist that indicate that the carrying value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, we might have to recognize a non-cash impairment of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we recorded impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets in 2012. see note 8, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, for further discussion. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial results or harm our reputation or the value of our brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of our products arise in the ordinary course of our business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions 23 table of contents could result in negative publicity that could harm our reputation in the marketplace or adversely impact the value of our brands or our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. we could also be required to recall possibly defective products, or voluntarily do so, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims could be excluded or exceed coverage limits under the terms of our insurance policies or could result in increased costs for such coverage. the relationship with s.c. johnson &amp; son, inc. ( scj ) is important to our diversey care segment, and any damage to this relationship could have a material adverse effect on this segment. diversey is party to various agreements with scj, including a brand license agreement (the bla ), a technology disclosure and license agreement, and supply and manufacturing agreements. under the bla, diversey is granted a license in specified territories to sell certain scj products and use specified trade names owned by scj in the institutional and industrial channels of trade and, subject to certain limitations, in specified channels of trade in which both our diversey care segment and scj consumer business operate. scj and its affiliates supply products under the bla. sales of these products have historically been significant to our diversey care segment. the bla purports to limit diversey right to market products with non-scj brands that scj has not approved in certain channels of trade in specified countries. if we default under our agreements with scj and the agreements are terminated, scj fails to perform its obligations under these agreements, or our relationship with scj is otherwise damaged or severed, this could have a material adverse effect on our diversey care segment, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. the relationship with unilever plc ( unilever ) is important to our diversey care segment and any damage to this relationship could have a material adverse effect on this segment. in connection with diversey acquisition of the diverseylever business from unilever in 2002, diversey entered into various agreements with unilever, including a license agreement and agency agreement. pursuant to the license agreement, unilever granted 31 diversey subsidiaries a license to produce and sell professional size packs of unilever consumer brand cleaning products. in four countries (the united kingdom, ireland, portugal and brazil), the diversey subsidiaries operate under an agency agreement with unilever. in addition, diversey also holds licenses to use some trademarks and technology of unilever in the market for institutional and industrial cleaning, sanitation and hygiene products and related services. we believe that these agreements are significant to our diversey care segment. if we default under our agreements with unilever and the agreements are terminated, unilever fails to perform its obligations under these agreements, or our relationship with unilever is otherwise damaged or severed, this could have a material adverse effect on our diversey care segment, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we are unable to retain key employees and other personnel, our consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other key personnel. their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us, and we need their expertise to execute our business strategies. if any of our senior management or other key personnel cease to work for us and we are unable to successfully replace any departing senior management or key personnel, our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we could experience disruptions in operations and/or increased labor costs. in europe and latin america, most of our employees are represented by either labor unions or workers councils and are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are generally renewable on an annual basis. as is the case with any negotiation, we may not be able to negotiate acceptable new collective bargaining agreements, which could result in strikes or work stoppages by affected workers. renewal of collective bargaining agreements could also result in higher wages or benefits paid to union members. a disruption in operations or higher ongoing labor costs could materially affect our business. 24 table of contents we are subject to a variety of environmental and product registration laws that expose us to potential financial liability and increased operating costs. our operations are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the manufacture of our products, the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil and water and the use, handling, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. many jurisdictions require us to have operating permits for our production and warehouse facilities and operations. any failure to obtain, maintain or comply with the terms of these permits could result in fines or penalties, revocation or nonrenewal of our permits, or orders to cease certain operations, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we generate, use and dispose of hazardous materials in our manufacturing processes. in the event our operations result in the release of hazardous materials into the environment, we may become responsible for the costs associated with the investigation and remediation of sites at which we have released pollutants, or sites where we have disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes, even if we fully complied with environmental laws at the time of disposal. we have been, and may continue to be, responsible for the cost of remediation at some locations. some jurisdictions have laws and regulations that govern the registration and labeling of some of our products. we expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our european operations as a result of a european union ( eu ) directive registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals (eu directive no. 2006/1907) enacted on december 18, 2006. the directive imposes several requirements related to the identification and management of risks related to chemical substances manufactured or marketed in europe. the eu has also recently enacted a classification, packaging and labeling regulation. other jurisdictions may impose similar requirements. we cannot predict with reasonable certainty the future cost to us of environmental compliance, product registration, or environmental remediation. environmental laws have become more stringent and complex over time. our environmental costs and operating expenses will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the scope and timing of the effectiveness of requirements in these various jurisdictions. as a result of such requirements, we may be subject to an increased regulatory burden, and we expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our operations. increased compliance costs, increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, or our inability to market some of our products in certain jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. the legacy diversey business had tendered various environmental indemnification claims to unilever pursuant to the unilever acquisition agreement (as defined below). under a previous acquisition agreement between the legacy diversey business and unilever (the unilever acquisition agreement ), unilever made warranties to diversey with respect to the facilities formerly owned by unilever. in addition, unilever agreed to indemnify diversey for specified types of environmental liabilities if the aggregate amount of damages meets various dollar thresholds, subject to a cap of $250 million in the aggregate. diversey was required to notify unilever of any environmental indemnification claims by may 3, 2008. any environmental claims pending after this date, with respect to which diversey has notified unilever, remain subject to indemnification until remediation is completed in accordance with the unilever acquisition agreement. diversey has previously tendered various environmental indemnification claims to unilever in connection with former unilever locations. unilever has not indicated its agreement with diversey request for indemnification. we may file additional requests for reimbursement in the future in connection with pending indemnification claims. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover any amounts relating to these indemnification claims from unilever. 25 table of contents our insurance policies may not cover all operating risks and a casualty loss beyond the limits of our coverage could adversely impact our business. our business is subject to operating hazards and risks relating to handling, storing, transporting and use of the products we sell. we maintain insurance policies in amounts and with coverage and deductibles that we believe are reasonable and prudent. nevertheless, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us from all liabilities and expenses that may arise from claims for personal injury or death or property damage arising in the ordinary course of business, and our current levels of insurance may not be maintained or available in the future at economical prices. if a significant liability claim is brought against us that is not adequately covered by insurance, we may have to pay the claim with our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we are not able to protect our trade secrets or maintain our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property, we may not be able to prevent competitors from developing similar products or from marketing their products in a manner that capitalizes on our trademarks, and this loss of a competitive advantage could decrease our profitability and liquidity. our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. if we were unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property and our significant current or proposed products, this loss of a competitive advantage could result in decreased sales or increased operating costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we rely on trade secrets to maintain our competitive position, including protecting the formulation and manufacturing techniques of many of our products. as such, we have not sought u.s. or international patent protection for some of our principal product formulas and manufacturing processes. accordingly, we may not be able to prevent others from developing products that are similar to or competitive with our products. we own a large number of patents and pending patent applications on our products, aspects thereof, methods of use and/or methods of manufacturing. there is a risk that our patents may not provide meaningful protection and patents may never be issued for our pending patent applications. we own, or have licenses to use, all of the material trademark and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our major products both in the united states and in other countries where our products are principally sold. trademark and trade name protection is important to our business. although most of our trademarks are registered in the united states and in the foreign countries in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s. the costs required to protect our trademarks and trade names may be substantial. we cannot be certain that we will be able to assert these intellectual property rights successfully in the future or that they will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute the value of our intellectual property in the marketplace. third parties, including competitors, may assert intellectual property infringement or invalidity claims against us that could be upheld. intellectual property litigation, which could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by us, may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or proprietary technology or for us to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of others proprietary rights. we may not prevail in any such litigation, and if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on reasonable terms or at all. any failure by us to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 26 table of contents cyber risk and the failure to maintain the integrity of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties with which we do business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to an increasing number of information technology vulnerabilities, threats and targeted computer crimes which pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of our networks or systems, could result in the loss of customers and business opportunities, legal liability, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensatory costs, and additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we attempt to mitigate these risks, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced and persistent threats. we also maintain and have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer controls. despite our efforts to protect such sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, our facilities and systems and those of our customers and third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors that could lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our consolidated, financial condition and results of operations. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties we manufacture products in 122 facilities, with 35 of those facilities serving more than one of our business segments and our other category of products. the geographic dispersion of our manufacturing facilities is as follows: geographic region number of manufacturing facilities north america 51 europe 30 latin america 15 asia, middle east, africa and turkey ( amat ) 15 japan/australia/new zealand ( janz ) 11 total 122 manufacturing facilities by reportable segment and other food care: we produce food care products in 60 manufacturing facilities, of which 15 are in north america, 16 in europe, 11 in latin america, 11 in amat and 7 in janz. diversey care: we produce diversey care products in 20 manufacturing facilities, of which 5 are in north america, 5 in europe, 3 in latin america, 5 in amat and 2 in janz. product care: we produce product care products in 73 manufacturing facilities, of which 36 are in north america, 17 in europe, 7 in latin america, 10 in amat and 3 in janz. 27 table of contents other: we produce medical applications products in 3 manufacturing facilities, of which 1 is in north america and 2 are in europe. we produce other products in 3 manufacturing facilities, of which 2 are in north america and 1 is in europe. other property information we own the large majority of our manufacturing facilities. some of these facilities are subject to secured or other financing arrangements. we lease the balance of our manufacturing facilities, which are generally smaller sites. our manufacturing facilities are usually located in general purpose buildings that house our specialized machinery for the manufacture of one or more products. because of the relatively low density of our air cellular, polyethylene foam and protective mailer products, we realize significant freight savings by locating our manufacturing facilities for these products near our customers and distributors. we also occupy facilities containing sales, distribution, technical, warehouse or administrative functions at a number of locations in the u.s. and in many foreign countries. some of these facilities are located on the manufacturing sites that we own and some on those that we lease. stand-alone facilities of these types are generally leased. our global headquarters are located in a leased property in elmwood park, new jersey. for a list of those countries outside of the united states where we have operations, see global operations above. we believe that our manufacturing, warehouse, office and other facilities are well maintained, suitable for their purposes and adequate for our needs. item 3. legal proceedings the information set forth in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k in note 18, commitments and contingencies, under the caption cryovac transaction commitments and contingencies is incorporated herein by reference. at december 31, 2013, we were a party to, or otherwise involved in, several federal, state and foreign environmental proceedings and private environmental claims for the cleanup of superfund sites under the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act of 1980 and other sites. we may have potential liability for investigation and cleanup of some of these sites. it is our policy to accrue for environmental cleanup costs if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and if we can reasonably estimate an amount or range of costs associated with various alternative remediation strategies, without giving effect to any possible future insurance proceeds. as assessments and cleanups proceed, we review these liabilities periodically and adjust our reserves as additional information becomes available. at december 31, 2013, environmental related reserves were not material to our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. while it is often difficult to estimate potential liabilities and the future impact of environmental matters, based upon the information currently available to us and our experience in dealing with these matters, we believe that our potential future liability with respect to these sites is not material to our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are also involved in various other legal actions incidental to our business. we believe, after consulting with counsel, that the disposition of these other legal proceedings and matters will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. item 4. mine safety disclosures. not applicable. 28 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the information appearing in the table below sets forth the current position or positions held by each of our executive officers, the officer age as of january 31, 2014, the year in which the officer was first elected to the position currently held with us or with the former sealed air corporation, now known as sealed air corporation (us) and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, and the year in which such person was first elected an officer. all of our officers serve at the pleasure of the board of directors. we have employed all officers for more than five years except for mr. chammas, who was first elected an officer effective december 16, 2010, ms. de mayo, who was first elected an officer effective december 20, 2012, mr. finch who was first elected effective may 16, 2013, dr. kadri, who was first elected an officer effective january 1, 2013, ms. lowe, who was first elected an officer effective june 18, 2012, mr. peribere, who was first elected an officer effective september 1, 2012, mr. sagnak, who was first elected an officer effective january 3, 2012 and mr. stiehl who was first elected an officer effective january 1, 2013. before joining us in november 2010, mr. chammas was the vice president, worldwide supply chain, for the wm. wrigley jr. company, a confectionery company, from october 2008 through october 2010, and prior to that served in management positions of increasing responsibility in supply chain, operations and procurement with the wm. wrigley jr. company from january 2002 until october 2008. prior to joining the company in december 2012, ms. de mayo was an executive vice president, human resources at aptuit, inc., a privately held services company providing drug development and discovery solutions to the pharmaceutical and biotech industry, from 2009 through 2012. prior to that, ms. de mayo was the vice president, global human resources for henry schein, inc., a global distributor of healthcare products and services to office-based practitioners, from 2005 until 2008. prior to joining the company in may 2013, mr. finch was vice president, associate general counsel and chief compliance officer for zimmer holdings, inc., a global medical device company, from october 2009 until may 2013, and prior to that served in management positions of increasing responsibility with zimmer from may 2005 until october 2009. prior to joining zimmer, mr. finch practiced law with the international law firm of fulbright &amp; jaworski llp (now, norton rose fulbright). prior to joining the company in january 2013, dr. kadri was the general manager of the dow advanced materials division, a specialty materials provider in the middle east and africa, and the europe, middle east and africa commercial director for dow water &amp; process solutions, a global leader in sustainable separation and purification technology, from january 2010 until december 2012. dr. kadri joined dow in 2009 as a marketing director for dow coating materials, following the acquisition of rohm and haas, where she served as a marketing director for the construction, coatings and industrial division, since 2007. prior to joining the company in june 2012, ms. lowe was the president of carlisle food service products, a subsidiary of carlisle companies incorporated, a global diversified manufacturing company from august 2011 through june 2012. ms. lowe worked for carlisle companies inc. for over ten years in a number of leadership positions including president of two business units, vice president and chief financial officer, and treasurer. prior to joining the company in september 2012, mr. peribere worked at the dow chemical company ( dow ) from 1977 through august 2012. mr. peribere served in multiple managerial roles with dow, most recently as executive vice president of dow and president and chief executive officer, dow advanced materials, a unit of dow, from 2010 through august 2012. mr. peribere currently serves as a board member of xylem, inc. prior to joining the company in october 2011 in connection with the diversey acquisition, mr. sagnak was regional president asia pacific, africa, middle east, turkey and the caucasian/asian republics (apat) of diversey since december 2010. prior to that, he held several management positions at diversey from 1995 through 2010 and with unilever from 1990 through 1995. 29 table of contents prior to joining the company in january 2013, mr. stiehl was a vice president of finance and controller of the aerostructures business unit of united technologies corporation from july 2012 through december 2012. mr. stiehl worked at goodrich corporation from 2006 through 2012. mr. stiehl also served as senior audit manager with deloitte and has worked in various accounting and finance positions for over twenty-five years with increasing levels of responsibilities. there are no family relationships among any of our officers or directors. name and current position age as of january 31, 2014 first elected to current position first elected an officer jerome a. peribere president, chief executive officer and director 59 2013 2012 carol p. lowe senior vice president and chief financial officer 48 2012 2012 emile z. chammas senior vice president 45 2010 2010 norman d. finch jr. vice president, general counsel and secretary 49 2013 2013 carole m. de mayo vice president 57 2012 2012 karl r. deily vice president 56 2006 2006 j. ryan flanagan vice president 50 2009 2009 ilham kadri vice president 45 2013 2013 warren j. kudman vice president 51 2009 2009 ruth roper vice president 59 2004 2004 yagmar sagnak vice president 47 2012 2012 tod s. christie treasurer 55 1999 1999 william g. stiehl chief accounting officer and controller 52 2013 2013 30 table of contents part ii item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities market information our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange under the trading symbol see. the table below shows the quarterly high and low closing sales prices of our common stock and cash dividends per share for 2013 and 2012. 2013 high low dividends first quarter $ 24.28 $ 17.94 $ 0.13 second quarter 24.64 21.15 0.13 third quarter 30.57 24.45 0.13 fourth quarter 34.13 26.56 0.13 2012 high low dividends first quarter $ 21.04 $ 17.38 $ 0.13 second quarter 19.95 14.90 0.13 third quarter 16.67 13.11 0.13 fourth quarter 17.55 15.24 0.13 as of january 31, 2014, there were approximately 5,237 holders of record of our common stock. dividends our amended credit facility and the senior notes contain covenants that restrict our ability to declare or pay dividends. however, we do not believe these covenants are likely to materially limit the future payment of quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. the following table shows our total cash dividends paid each year since we initiated quarterly cash dividend payments in 2006. total cash dividends paid total cash dividends paid per common share (in millions) 2006 $ 48.6 $ 0.30 2007 64.6 0.40 2008 76.4 0.48 2009 75.7 0.48 2010 79.7 0.50 2011 87.4 0.52 2012 100.9 0.52 2013 102.0 0.52 total $ 635.3 on february 18, 2014, our board of directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.13 per common share payable on march 21, 2014 to stockholders of record at the close of business on march 7, 2014. the estimated amount of this dividend payment is $26 million based on 196 million shares of our common stock issued and outstanding as of january 31, 2014. 31 table of contents the dividend payments discussed above are recorded as reductions to cash and cash equivalents and retained earnings on our consolidated balance sheets. from time to time, we may consider other means of returning value to our stockholders based on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. there is no guarantee that our board of directors will declare any further dividends. common stock performance comparisons the following graph shows, for the five years ended december 31, 2013, the cumulative total return on an investment of $100 assumed to have been made on december 31, 2008 in our common stock. the graph compares this return ( see ) with that of comparable investments assumed to have been made on the same date in: (a) the standard &amp; poor 500 stock index ( composite s&amp;p 500 ) and (b) a self-constructed peer group. the peer group includes us and the following companies: agrium inc., air products &amp; chemicals, inc.; ashland inc.; avery dennison corporation; ball corporation; bemis company, inc.; celanese corporation; crown holdings, inc.; eastman chemical company; ecolab inc.; huntsman corporation; meadwestvaco corporation; monsanto company; the mosaic company; owens-illinois, inc.; ppg industries, inc.; praxair, inc.; the sherwin-williams company; and sonoco products co. total return for each assumed investment assumes the reinvestment of all dividends on december 31 of the year in which the dividends were paid. 5 year compound annual growth rate see: 20.7% composite s&amp;p 500: 17.7% peer group: 23.1% 32 table of contents issuer purchases of equity securities the table below sets forth the total number of shares of our common stock, par value $0.10 per share, that we repurchased in each month of the quarter ended december 31, 2013, the average price paid per share and the maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under our publicly announced plans or programs. total number of shares purchased (1) average price paid per share total number of share purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs period (a) (b) (c) (d) balance as of september 30, 2013 $ 15,546,142 october 1, 2013 through october 31, 2013 15,546,142 november 1, 2013 through november 30, 2013 15,546,142 december 1, 2013 through december 31, 2013 14,461 15,546,142 total 14,461 $ 15,546,142 (1) we did not purchase any shares during the quarter ended december 31, 2013 pursuant to our publicly announced program (described below). we did acquire shares by means of (a) shares withheld from awards under our 2005 contingent stock plan pursuant to the provision thereof that permits tax withholding obligations or other legally required charges to be satisfied by having us withhold shares from an award under that plan and (b) shares reacquired pursuant to the forfeiture provision of our 2005 contingent stock plan. (see table below.) we report price calculations in column (b) in the table above only for shares purchased as part of our publicly announced program, when applicable, including commissions. for shares withheld for tax withholding obligations or other legally required charges, we withhold shares at a price equal to their fair market value. we do not make payments for shares reacquired by the company pursuant to the forfeiture provision of the 2005 contingent stock plan as those shares are simply forfeited. shares withheld for tax average withholding price forfeitures under 2005 obligations and charges for shares in column a contingent stock plan total period (a) (b) (c) (d) october 2013 november 2013 december 2013 13,641 30.85 1,000 14,461 total 13,641 $ 1,000 14,641 on august 9, 2007, we announced that our board of directors had approved a share repurchase program authorizing us to repurchase in the aggregate up to 20 million shares of our issued and outstanding common stock (described further under the caption, repurchases of capital stock, in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k). this program has no set expiration date. this program replaced our prior share repurchase program, which we terminated at that time. 33 table of contents item 6. selected financial data year ended december 31, 2013 (1) 2012 (1) 2011 (1)(2) 2010 2009 (in millions, except per common share data) consolidated statements of operations data (3) : net sales $ 7,690.8 $ 7,559.2 $ 5,467.3 $ 4,490.1 $ 4,242.8 gross profit 2,587.5 2,522.3 1,580.6 1,252.8 1,218.5 impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 1,892.3 operating profit (loss) 602.1 (1,427.7 ) 420.8 535.0 492.3 loss on debt redemption (36.3 ) (36.9 ) (38.5 ) (3.4 ) earnings (loss) from continuing operations before income tax provision 177.7 (1,882.6 ) 189.4 343.4 329.9 net earnings (loss) from continuing operations 93.7 (1,617.9 ) 132.7 255.9 244.3 net earnings from discontinued operations 7.6 28.7 16.4 net gain on sale of discontinued operations 22.9 178.9 net earnings (loss) available to common stockholders $ 124.2 $ (1,410.3 ) $ 149.1 $ 255.9 $ 244.3 basic and diluted net earnings per common share: basic continuing operations $ 0.48 $ (8.39 ) $ 0.79 $ 1.61 $ 1.54 discontinued operations 0.16 1.08 0.10 net earnings (loss) per common share basic $ 0.64 $ (7.31 ) $ 0.89 $ 1.61 $ 1.54 diluted continuing operations $ 0.44 $ (8.39 ) $ 0.71 $ 1.44 $ 1.35 discontinued operations 0.14 1.08 0.09 net earnings (loss) per common share diluted $ 0.58 $ (7.31 ) $ 0.80 $ 1.44 $ 1.35 common stock dividends $ 102.6 $ 101.4 $ 88.7 $ 80.9 $ 77.5 consolidated balance sheets data: cash and cash equivalents $ 992.4 $ 679.6 $ 703.6 $ 675.6 $ 694.5 goodwill 3,114.6 3,151.2 4,168.2 1,945.9 1,948.7 intangible assets, net 1,016.9 1,131.6 2,027.6 78.0 58.4 total assets 9,134.2 9,331.7 11,432.0 5,399.4 5,420.1 settlement agreement and related accrued interest 925.1 876.9 831.2 787.9 746.8 long-term debt, less current portion 4,116.4 4,540.8 4,966.7 1,399.2 1,626.3 total stockholders equity 1,390.5 1,444.3 2,957.5 2,401.6 2,200.3 working capital (current assets less current liabilities) 716.9 954.3 911.7 592.3 639.6 consolidated cash flows data (3) : net cash provided by operating activities $ 624.8 $ 394.2 $ 363.1 $ 483.1 $ 552.0 net cash used in investing activities (105.5 ) (114.9 ) (2,365.7 ) (96.9 ) (70.3 ) net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (319.8 ) (585.1 ) 2,016.4 (373.0 ) 90.3 other financial data: depreciation and amortization $ 283.4 $ 300.2 $ 182.7 $ 154.7 $ 154.5 share-based incentive compensation 24.1 16.9 25.0 30.6 38.8 capital expenditures 116.0 122.8 121.7 87.6 80.3 34 table of contents (1) operating results for the rigid medical packaging business were reclassified to discontinued operations in 2013, 2012 and 2011 and related assets and liabilities were reclassified to assets and liabilities held for sale as of december 31, 2012 and 2011. operating results for diversey japan were reclassified to discontinued operations for the periods in 2012 and 2011 beginning october 3, 2011. see note 3, divestitures, for further information about the sale of our rigid medical packaging business in 2013 and the sale of our diversey japan in 2012. results for 2010 and 2009 have not been revised for the sale of the rigid medical packaging business as the results were not considered material or the sale of the diversey japan because we acquired diversey on october 3, 2011. (2) includes the financial results of diversey for the period beginning october 3, 2011 (acquisition date). see note 4, acquisition of diversey holdings, inc., for further information about the acquisition. (3) see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, for a discussion of the factors that contributed to our consolidated operating results and our consolidated cash flows for the three years ended december 31, 2013. item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the information in this md&amp;a should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes set forth in part ii, item 8, as well as the discussion included in part i, item 1a, risk factors, of this annual report on form 10-k. all amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars are in millions, except per share amounts. the results include the operating results of diversey beginning october 3, 2011 (date of acquisition). all results prior to october 3, 2011 include historical sealed air results only. on december 6, 2013, we completed the sale of the rigid medical packaging business, and accordingly the operating results were reclassified to discontinued operations, net of tax, on the consolidated statements of operations for 2013, 2012 and 2011. on november 14, 2012, we completed the sale of diversey japan, and accordingly the operating results were reclassified to discontinued operations, net of tax, on the consolidated statements of operations for 2012 and 2011. also, the assets and liabilities of the rigid medical packaging business operations were reclassified to assets and liabilities held for sale as of december 31, 2012. see note 3, divestitures, for further details. all results and discussion included in this md&amp;a are presented on a continuing operations basis. in the third quarter of 2013, we renamed our global business divisions under our segment reporting structure, which did not have any impact to the reportable segment results. the following are the changes to the names of our three global business divisions: food care, which was previously named food &amp; beverage; diversey care, which was previously named institutional &amp; laundry; and product care, which was previously named protective packaging. we also have an other category, which includes our medical applications and new ventures businesses. the changes to the segment names had no effect on our historical consolidated results of operations. see note 5, segments, for further details of our segment structure. overview we are a global leader in food safety and security, facility hygiene and product protection. we serve an array of end markets including food and beverage processing, food service, retail, healthcare and industrial, and commercial and consumer applications. we have widely recognized and inventive brands such as bubble wrap &reg; brand cushioning, cryovac &reg; brand food packaging solutions and diversey &reg; brand cleaning and hygiene 35 table of contents solutions. our focus is on achieving quality sales growth through leveraging our geographic footprint, technological know-how and leading market positions to bring measureable, sustainable value to our customers, employees and investors. as of december 31, 2013, we employed approximately 7,300 sales, marketing and customer service personnel throughout the world who sell and market our products to and through a large number of distributors, fabricators, converters, e-commerce and mail order fulfillment firms, and contract packaging firms as well as directly to end-users such as food processors, foodservice businesses, supermarket retailers, lodging, retail pharmaceutical companies, healthcare facilities, medical device manufacturers, and other manufacturers. we have no material long-term contracts for the distribution of our products. in 2013, no customer or affiliated group of customers accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales. historically, net sales in our food care segment have tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter, due to holiday events. net sales in our diversey care segment have tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter; second quarter sales represent a modest seasonal increase due to higher occupancy rates in european lodging; and the third and fourth quarters of the year are relatively the same level as the second quarter. net sales in our product care segment have also tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and higher in the mid-third quarter and through the fourth quarter due to holiday events. on a consolidated basis, there is little seasonality in the business with net sales slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter. our consolidated net earnings typically trend directionally the same as our net sales seasonality. cash flow from operations has tended to be lower in the first quarter and higher in the fourth quarter, reflecting seasonality of sales and working capital changes, including the timing of certain annual incentive compensation payments. other factors may outweigh the effects of seasonal changes in our net earnings results including, but not limited to, changes in raw materials and other costs, foreign exchange rates, interest rates, taxes and the timing and amount of acquisition synergies and restructuring and other non-recurring charges. competition for most of our packaging products is based primarily on packaging performance characteristics, service and price. competition is also based upon innovations in packaging technology and, as a result, we maintain ongoing research and development programs to enable us to maintain technological leadership. our food care hygiene solutions and diversey care solutions businesses face a wide spectrum of competitors across each product category. competition is both global and regional in scope and includes numerous small, local competitors with limited product portfolios and geographic reach. for more details, see competition included in part i, item 1 business. our net sales are sensitive to developments in our customers business or market conditions, changes in the global economy, and the effects of foreign currency translation. our costs can vary materially due to changes in input costs, including petrochemical-related costs (primarily resin costs), which are not within our control. consequently, our management focuses on reducing those costs that we can control and using petrochemical-based and other raw materials as efficiently as possible. we also believe that our global presence helps to insulate us from localized changes in business conditions. we manage our businesses to generate substantial operating cash flow. we believe that our operating cash flow will permit us to continue to spend on innovative research and development and to invest in our business by means of capital expenditures for property and equipment and acquisitions. moreover, we expect that our ability to generate substantial operating cash flow should provide us with the flexibility to repay debt and to return capital to our stockholders. 2014 outlook we expect net sales to be relatively flat in 2014 compared to 2013 net sales of $7.7 billion with organic growth of approximately 3% to 4% due to positive trends in volume and product price/mix. this is expected to be offset 36 table of contents by the impact of product rationalization of approximately 1% to 2% and an estimated unfavorable impact of more than 2% from foreign currency translation. adjusted eps, excluding the impact of stock appreciation rights ( sars ) expense, is expected to be in the range of $1.50 to $1.60. this represents an estimated increase of 8% to 15% compared with 2013 adjusted eps of $1.39, excluding sars expense. adjusted eps guidance excludes the impact of special items. our core tax rate for 2014 is expected to be approximately 25%. we also estimate interest expense to be approximately $295 million ($280 million of cash interest expense) and depreciation and amortization to be approximately $315 million. adjusted ebitda for 2014, including non-cash profit sharing expense and excluding the impact of sars, is estimated to be in the range of $1.050 billion to $1.070 billion. this represents an estimated increase of 1% to 3% compared with 2013 adjusted ebitda of $1.038 billion. for 2014, we anticipate capital expenditures of approximately $170 million, cash payments related to the earnings quality improvement program ( eqip ) and the integration and optimization program ( iop ) of approximately $150 million and cash taxes between $100 million and $120 million. as a result of higher capital expenditures and restructuring payments in 2014 as compared to 2013, we anticipate free cash flow for 2014 to be approximately $410 million. highlights of financial performance below are the highlights of our financial performance for the three years ended december 31, 2013. 2013 2012 2011 2013 vs. 2012 % change 2012 vs. 2011 % change net sales $ 7,690.8 $ 7,559.2 $ 5,467.3 2 % 38 % gross profit $ 2,587.5 $ 2,522.3 $ 1,580.6 3 % 60 % as a % of net sales 33.6 % 33.4 % 28.9 % operating profit (loss) $ 602.1 $ (1,427.7 ) $ 420.8 # % # % as a % of net sales 7.8 % (18.9 ) % 7.7 % net earnings (loss) available to common stockholders from continuing operations $ 93.7 $ (1,617.9 ) $ 132.7 # % # % net earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations basic $ 0.48 $ (8.39 ) $ 0.79 # % # % net earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations diluted $ 0.44 $ (8.39 ) $ 0.71 # % # % weighted average number of common shares outstanding: basic 194.6 192.8 167.0 diluted 213.5 192.8 185.4 non-u.s. gaap adjusted diluted net earnings per common share continuing operations (1) $ 1.23 $ 0.91 $ 1.22 35 % (25 )% non-u.s. gaap adjusted diluted net earnings per common share continuing operations, excluding the impact of sars $ 1.39 $ 0.98 $ 1.22 42 % (20 )% # denotes a variance greater than or equal to 100%, or not meaningful. (1) see diluted net earnings per common share for a reconciliation of our u.s. gaap eps to our non-u.s. gaap adjusted eps. 37 table of contents diluted net earnings per common share the following table presents a reconciliation of our u.s. gaap eps to non-u.s. gaap adjusted eps. year ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 net earnings eps net earnings eps net earnings eps u.s. gaap net earnings (loss) and eps available to common stockholders continuing operations $ 93.7 $ 0.44 $ (1,617.9 ) $ (8.39 ) $ 132.7 $ 0.71 special items, net of tax (1) 169.5 0.79 1,811.0 9.30 94.3 0.51 non-u.s. gaap adjusted net earnings and adjusted eps $ 263.2 $ 1.23 $ 193.1 $ 0.91 $ 227.0 $ 1.22 weighted average number of common shares outstanding diluted (2) 213.5 211.2 185.4 (1) special items are certain one-time costs/credits that are included in our u.s. gaap reported results. for 2013, special items primarily included restructuring and other charges of $74 million ($59 million, net of taxes) and associated costs of $26 million ($18 million, net of taxes), related to both eqip and iop, $50 million increase to the valuation allowance in connection with the deferred tax asset related to the settlement agreement, loss on debt redemption of $36 million ($24 million, net of taxes), write down of non-strategic assets of $5 million ($3 million, net of taxes) and foreign currency exchange losses related to venezuelan subsidiaries of $13 million ($11 million, net of taxes). for 2012, these items primarily included (i) impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, (ii) restructuring charges and (iii) loss on debt redemption. for 2011, these items primarily include costs related to the acquisition and integration of diversey and restructuring charges. (2) for 2012, for purposes of calculating adjusted eps, the dilutive impact of: (i) the effect of the assumed issuance of 18 million shares of common stock reserved for the settlement agreement and (ii) the effect of non-vested restricted stock and restricted stock units using the treasury stock method was included because we reported adjusted net earnings for 2012. these shares differ from the shares used to calculate net loss per common share included in the consolidated statement of operations for u.s. gaap reporting purposes because we reported a net loss for 2012, which does not include the effect of the items mentioned above as the effect was anti-dilutive. see note 21, net (loss) earnings per common share, for details on the calculation of our u.s. gaap basic and diluted eps and non-u.s. gaap information above, for further details. our u.s. gaap and non-u.s. gaap income taxes are as follows: year ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 provision effective tax rate (benefit) provision effective tax rate provision effective tax rate u.s. gaap income taxes $ 84.0 47.3 % $ (264.7 ) 14.1 % $ 56.7 29.9 % non-u.s. gaap income taxes (core taxes) $ 73.5 21.8 % $ 68.2 26.1 % $ 99.7 30.5 % 38 table of contents foreign currency translation impact on consolidated financial results since we are a u.s. domiciled company, we translate our foreign currency-denominated financial results into u.s. dollars. due to the changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, translating our financial results from foreign currencies to u.s. dollars may result in a favorable or unfavorable impact. historically, the most significant currencies that have impacted the translation of our consolidated financial results are the euro, the australian dollar, the brazilian real, the british pound, the canadian dollar and the mexican peso. as shown below, 65% of our consolidated net sales in 2013 were generated outside the u.s. the following table presents the approximate favorable or (unfavorable) impact foreign currency translation had on some of our consolidated financial results: 2013 vs. 2012 2012 vs. 2011 net sales $ (75.6 ) $ (146.1 ) cost of sales 62.0 111.0 selling, general and administrative expenses 9.0 27.0 operating profit $ (4.6 ) $ (8.1 ) net sales by geographic region net sales by geographic region for three years ended december 31, 2013 as follows: year ended december 31, 2013 vs. 2012 % change 2012 vs. 2011 % change 2013 2012 2011 north america $ 3,006.9 $ 2,952.4 $ 2,452.2 1.8 % 20.4 % as a % of net sales 39.1 % 39.1 % 44.9 % europe 2,447.8 2,416.5 1,581.9 1.2 % 52.8 % as a % of net sales 31.8 % 32.0 % 28.9 % latin america 824.3 799.7 545.7 3.1 % 46.5 % as a % of net sales 10.7 % 10.6 % 10.0 % amat (1) 846.8 794.4 346.0 6.5 % # % as a % of net sales 11.0 % 10.5 % 6.3 % janz (2) 565.0 596.2 541.5 (5.2 )% 10.1 % as a % of net sales 7.3 % 7.9 % 9.9 % total $ 7,690.8 $ 7,559.2 $ 5,467.3 1.7 % 38.3 % # denotes a variance greater than or equal to 100%, or not meaningful (1) amat = asia, middle east, africa and turkey (2) janz = japan, australia and new zealand 39 table of contents by geographic region, the components of the increase in net sales for 2013 compared with 2012 were as follows: change in net sales 2013 compared with 2012 north america europe latin america amat (1) janz (2) total volume units $ 18.7 $ (2.2 ) $ 36.5 $ 54.3 $ 6.7 $ 114.0 % change 0.6 % (0.1 )% 4.6 % 6.8 % 1.1 % 1.5 % volume acquired businesses, net of (dispositions) (1.2 ) 0.3 0.1 0.3 (0.5 ) % change % % % % % % product price/mix 44.5 (3.8 ) 40.5 16.3 (3.8 ) 93.7 % change 1.5 % (0.2 )% 5.1 % 2.0 % (0.6 )% 1.2 % foreign currency translation (7.5 ) 37.1 (52.5 ) (18.6 ) (34.1 ) (75.6 ) % change (0.3 )% 1.5 % (6.6 )% (2.3 )% (5.7 )% (1.0 )% total $ 54.5 $ 31.4 $ 24.6 $ 52.3 $ (31.2 ) $ 131.6 % change 1.8 % 1.2 % 3.1 % 6.5 % (5.2 )% 1.7 % impact of foreign currency translation 7.5 (37.1 ) 52.5 18.6 34.1 75.6 total constant dollar change (non-u.s. gaap) $ 62.0 $ (5.7 ) $ 77.1 $ 70.9 $ 2.9 $ 207.2 constant dollar % change 2.1 % (0.3 )% 9.7 % 8.8 % 0.5 % 2.7 % # denotes a variance greater than or equal to 100%, or not meaningful. (1) amat = asia, middle east, africa and turkey (2) janz = japan, australia and new zealand by geographic region, the components of the increase in net sales for 2012 compared with 2011 were as follows: change in net sales 2012 compared with 2011 north america europe latin america amat (1) janz (2) total volume units $ 45.5 $ (42.6 ) $ 38.8 $ 51.0 $ 2.3 $ 95.0 % change 1.9 % (2.7 )% 7.1 % 14.7 % 0.4 % 1.7 % volume acquired businesses, net of (dispositions) 455.3 970.8 231.9 404.5 52.8 2,115.3 % change 18.6 % 61.4 % 42.5 % # % 9.8 % 38.7 % product price/mix 0.5 (0.7 ) 33.2 (1.1 ) (4.2 ) 27.7 % change % % 6.1 % (0.3 )% (0.8 )% 0.5 % foreign currency translation (1.2 ) (92.8 ) (49.9 ) (6.0 ) 3.8 (146.1 ) % change % (5.9 )% (9.1 )% (1.7 )% 0.7 % (2.7 )% total $ 500.1 $ 834.7 $ 254.0 $ 448.4 $ 54.7 $ 2,091.9 % change 20.4 % 52.8 % 46.5 % # % 10.1 % 38.3 % impact of foreign currency translation 1.2 92.8 49.9 6.0 (3.8 ) 146.1 total constant dollar change (non-u.s. gaap) $ 501.3 $ 927.5 $ 303.9 $ 454.4 $ 50.9 $ 2,238.0 constant dollar % change 20.4 % 58.6 % 55.7 % # % 9.4 % 40.9 % # denotes a variance greater than or equal to 100%, or not meaningful. (1) amat = asia, middle east, africa and turkey (2) janz = japan, australia and new zealand 40 table of contents net sales by segment reporting structure the following table presents net sales by our segment reporting structure: year ended december 31, 2013 vs. 2012 % change 2012 vs. 2011 change 2013 2012 2011 net sales: food care $ 3,811.1 $ 3,739.6 $ 3,240.6 1.9 % 15.4 % as a % of net sales 49.6 % 49.5 % 59.3 % diversey care 2,160.4 2,131.5 534.0 1.4 % # as a % of net sales 28.1 % 28.2 % 9.8 % product care 1,608.0 1,578.4 1,594.4 1.9 % (1.0 )% as a % of net sales 20.9 % 20.9 % 29.2 % other category 111.3 109.7 98.3 1.5 % 11.6 % as a % of net sales 1.4 % 1.5 % 1.8 % total $ 7,690.8 $ 7,559.2 $ 5,467.3 1.7 % 38.3 % # denotes a variance greater than or equal to 100%, or not meaningful. components of change in net sales by segment reporting structure the following tables present the components of change in net sales by our segment reporting structure for 2013 compared with 2012 and 2012 compared with 2011. we also present the change in net sales excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, a non-u.s. gaap measure, which we define as constant dollar. we believe using constant dollar measures aids in the comparability between periods as it eliminates the volatility of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. change in net sales 2013 compared with 2012 food care diversey care product care other category total company volumes units $ 63.4 1.7 % $ 11.3 0.5 % $ 40.6 2.6 % $ (1.3 ) (1.2 )% $ 114.0 1.5 % volumes acquired business, net of (dispositions) (0.5 ) (0.5 ) (0.5 ) product price/mix (1) 60.9 1.6 32.8 1.5 (2.5 ) (0.2 ) 2.5 2.3 93.7 1.2 foreign currency translation (52.8 ) (1.4 ) (15.2 ) (0.7 ) (8.5 ) (0.5 ) 0.9 0.8 (75.6 ) (1.0 ) total change (u.s. gaap) $ 71.5 1.9 % $ 28.9 1.3 % $ 29.6 1.9 % $ 1.6 1.4 % $ 131.6 1.7 % impact of foreign currency translation $ 52.8 1.4 $ 15.2 0.7 $ 8.5 0.5 $ (0.9 ) (0.8 ) $ 75.6 1.0 total constant dollar change (non-u.s. gaap) $ 124.3 3.3 % $ 44.1 2.0 % $ 38.1 2.4 % $ 0.7 0.6 % $ 207.2 2.7 % 41 table of contents change in net sales 2012 compared with 2011 food care diversey care product care other category total company volumes units $ 51.1 1.6 % 2.9 0.5 % 21.5 1.4 % 19.5 19.8 % $ 95.0 1.7 % volumes acquired business, net of (dispositions) 516.7 15.9 1,598.6 # 2,115.3 38.7 product price/mix (1) 22.5 0.7 8.8 1.7 (1.4 ) (0.1 ) (2.2 ) (2.2 ) 27.7 0.5 foreign currency translation (91.1 ) (2.8 ) (13.0 ) (2.4 ) (36.1 ) (2.3 ) (5.9 ) (6.0 ) (146.1 ) (2.7 ) total change (u.s. gaap) $ 499.2 15.4 % $ 1,597.3 # % $ (16.0 ) (1.0 )% $ 11.4 11.6 % $ 2,091.9 38.3 % impact of foreign currency translation $ 91.1 2.8 $ 13.0 2.4 $ 36.1 2.3 $ 5.9 6.0 $ 146.1 2.7 total constant dollar change (non-u.s. gaap) $ 590.3 18.2 % $ 1,610.3 # % $ 20.1 1.3 % $ 17.3 17.6 % $ 2,238.0 40.9 % # denotes a variance greater than or equal to 100%, or not meaningful. (1) our product price/mix reported above includes the net impact of our pricing actions and rebates as well as the period-to-period change in the mix of products sold. also included in our reported product price/mix is the net effect of some of our customers purchasing our products in non-u.s. dollar or euro denominated countries at selling prices denominated in u.s. dollars or euros. this primarily arises when we export products from the u.s. and euro-zone countries. the impact to our reported product price/mix of these purchases in other countries at selling prices denominated in u.s. dollars or euros was not material in the periods included in the table above. the following net sales discussion is on a constant dollar basis. food care segment net sales 2013 compared with 2012 the $124 million, or 3%, constant dollar increase in net sales in 2013 compared with 2012 was primarily due to: higher unit volumes in amat of $32 million, or 12%, and in latin america of $25 million, or 5%, due to an increase in beef production rates, hygiene standards as well as strong customer acceptance of new products; and favorable product price/mix in latin america of $32 million, or 6%, and in north america of $26 million, or 2%, reflecting favorable results from the progression of our pricing initiatives implemented to offset increases in raw material costs, specifically in brazil, argentina and in the u.s. 2012 compared with 2011 the $590 million, or 18%, constant dollar increase in 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to: a $517 million incremental impact of net sales by the acquired businesses from the hygiene solutions business as a result of the acquisition of diversey in the fourth quarter of 2011; favorable product price/mix in latin america of $29 million, or 7%, primarily from the benefits of prior pricing actions that were implemented to offset rising raw materials costs and from formula-based contractual price adjustments in the packaging solutions business; and higher unit volumes in latin america of $28 million, or 7%, due to increased customer production rates for fresh red meat in the packaging solutions business. 42 table of contents diversey care segment net sales 2013 compared with 2012 the $44 million, or 2%, constant dollar increase in net sales in 2013 compared with 2012 was primarily due to: favorable product price/mix of $25 million, or 2%. this increase is primarily due to our pricing actions in 2013 in all regions, primarily in latin america and amat, which have more than offset input cost increases; higher unit volumes in amat of $21 million, or 6%, due to growth primarily in the hospitality and food service sectors; and higher unit volumes in latin america of $11 million, or 6%, due to growth in food services, channel and retail sectors. these favorable factors were offset by: lower unit volumes in europe of $13 million, or 1%, due to the economic challenges in this region. 2012 compared with 2011 the $1,610 million constant dollar increase in net sales in 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to: a $1,599 million incremental impact of net sales by the acquired diversey care business as a result of the acquisition of diversey in the fourth quarter of 2011; and favorable product price/mix of $9 million, or 2% , primarily in latin america and amat regions in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared with the same period of 2011. these factors were partially offset by a decrease in unit volumes in europe of $10 million, or 4%, reflecting a decline in consumer brands and lower equipment sales. product care segment net sales 2013 compared with 2012 the $38 million, or 2%, constant dollar increase in net sales in 2013 compared with 2012 was primarily due to: an increase in unit volumes of $21 million, or 2% in north america, $8 million, or 8% in janz and $7 million, or 2% in europe, primarily due to strong growth in the packaging systems sector. favorable product price/mix of $8 million, or 1% in north america reflecting results from the progression of our pricing initiatives implemented in north america to offset increases in raw material costs these favorable factors were offset by: unfavorable product price/mix of $7 million, or 2% in europe which was primarily experienced in our consumer based and large e-commerce customers. 2012 compared with 2011 the $20 million, or 1%, constant dollar increase in net sales in 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to higher unit volumes in the u.s. of $25 million, or 3%, due to expanded market presence and strengths in solutions targeting e-commerce applications. this growth was partially offset by lower unit volumes in europe of $11 million, or 3%, primarily due to lower customer demand reflecting the current economic challenges in the region. 43 table of contents cost of sales cost of sales for the three years ended december 31, 2013 was as follows: 2013 2012 2011 2013 vs. 2012 % change 2012 vs. 2011 % change cost of sales $ 5,103.3 $ 5,036.9 $ 3,886.7 1.3 % 29.6 % as a % of net sales 66.4 % 66.6 % 71.1 % 2013 compared with 2012 cost of sales was impacted by a favorable foreign currency translation impact of $62 million. on a constant dollar basis, cost of sales increased $128 million, or 3%. some of the factors that contributed to the increase in cost of sales were: higher raw material costs of $38 million; inflationary costs of $46 million, primarily related to non-material inflation including salaries, wages and benefit expenses; higher profit sharing expense of $7 million due to achieving most of our 2013 financial performance goals; higher freight costs of $7 million; and increased costs to support higher unit volumes. these factors were partially offset by the favorable impact of: incremental cost synergies associated with iop of $44 million; and lower associated costs incurred with the implementation of iop of $9 million. cost of sales as a percentage of net sales decreased in the last three years primarily reflecting manufacturing efficiency improvements and synergies from our restructuring programs. we anticipate raw material costs will have an unfavorable impact on cost of sales in 2014 as compared with 2013. we have historically implemented and will continue to implement pricing actions as appropriate to offset increases in raw material costs along with increases in other input costs we may experience. 2012 compared with 2011 the $1.2 billion increase in cost of sales in 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to the incremental impact of costs of sales from acquired businesses of $1.2 billion from the food care hygiene solutions and diversey care businesses as a result of the acquisition of diversey in the fourth quarter of 2011. cost of sales for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared with 2011 was also impacted by a favorable foreign currency translation impact of $111 million. costs for raw materials and freight were $15 million lower in 2012 compared with 2011. selling, general and administrative expenses selling, general and administrative expenses for the three years ended december 31, 2013 are included in the table below. 2013 2012 2011 2013 vs. 2012 % change 2012 vs. 2011 % change selling, general and administrative expenses $ 1,749.2 $ 1,756.7 $ 1,004.4 (0.4 )% 74.9 % as a % of net sales 22.7 % 23.2 % 18.4 % 44 table of contents 2013 compared with 2012 selling, general and administrative expenses were impacted by a favorable foreign currency translation impact of $9 million. on a constant dollar basis, selling, general and administrative expenses increased $2 million, primarily due to: an increase in inflationary costs of $35 million, including the impact of salaries, wages and benefit expenses; an increase in performance based annual incentive compensation of $25 million and higher profit sharing expense of $9 million, primarily due to achieving most of our 2013 financial performance goals; and incremental costs incurred with the implementation of eqip and iop of $13 million. these factors were partially offset by the favorable impact of cost synergies associated with iop of $68 million. 2012 compared with 2011 the $752 million increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to a $796 million incremental impact of expenses from acquired businesses from the food care hygiene solutions and diversey care businesses as a result of the acquisition of diversey in the fourth quarter of 2011, partially offset by the impact of favorable foreign currency translation of $27 million and a decrease in share-based compensation of $8 million primarily because we did not achieve some of our 2012 financial performance goals. amortization expense of intangible assets acquired amortization expense of intangible assets acquired for the three years ended december 31, 2013 was as follows: 2013 2012 2011 amortization expense of intangible assets acquired $ 123.2 $ 132.7 $ 38.4 the decrease in amortization expense in 2013 as compared with 2012 was primarily due to the impact of the non-cash impairment charge recorded in 2012, which lowered the carrying value of certain intangible assets acquired, which in turn resulted in lower amortization expense in 2013. the increase in 2012 compared with 2011 was due to the amortization of the intangible assets acquired in connection with the acquisition of diversey in the fourth quarter of 2011. impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets during the third quarter of 2012, due to the continuing unfavorable economic conditions primarily in europe and north america, we re-evaluated the near and long-term expected business performance of our diversey business. our diversey business had experienced operating results that were significantly lower than expected during the first half of 2012 and lower than originally forecasted at the time of the acquisition of diversey in 2011. also during the third quarter of 2012, we started our annual multi-year strategic forecasting and planning process, which is prepared for all reporting units in the second half of each year. in connection with this process, we re-evaluated the near and long-term expected business performance of the diversey business and considered the long-term market conditions and business trends within each of the diversey regional reporting units. as a result of our re-evaluation, we determined that our european business was not expected to achieve any significant growth until late 2013 or 2014. additionally, in north america, we were not able to pass along to our customers, increases in raw material costs that began in late 2011 and continued into 2012, consequently causing margins to be significantly lower than originally expected. also, the impact of lower sales and increases in raw material costs in latin america caused that region operating results to be lower than expected. when we factored the impact of these unfavorable conditions into our strategic forecasting and planning process, we determined that 45 table of contents these were significant indicators of potential impairment in accordance with asc 350, intangibles-goodwill and other. accordingly, we performed an interim impairment test for both the goodwill and long-lived assets of the diversey european, north american and latin american reporting units. during the fourth quarter of 2012, we began to operate under our new business division structure, which created the diversey care and hygiene solutions (which is included in the food care segment) reporting units from the previous legacy diversey segment. in connection with this new business division structure, we revised our multi-year forecast under the new reporting unit structure. included in the revised multi-year forecast was our expectation that there would be further economic weakness in europe, particularly in southern europe, which was more severe than we initially forecasted during our third quarter 2012 interim impairment review. the diversey care and hygiene solutions reporting units both derive a significant portion of their revenue from europe. also, included in the revised multi-year forecast for the diversey care and hygiene solutions reporting units were the reported results for these reporting units for the fourth quarter of 2012. the reported results for both the diversey care and hygiene solutions reporting units were lower than originally forecasted at the end of the third quarter of 2012. in particular, the diversey care reporting unit experienced lower volumes in its consumer brands and lower equipment sales in europe as compared with the fourth quarter of 2011. in addition, the diversey care reporting unit continued to incur higher sales and marketing expenses compared with the fourth quarter of 2011. during the fourth quarter of 2012, several new members of our senior management team believed that a new and enhanced business strategy was required to successfully operate both the diversey care and hygiene solutions businesses. the combination of the factors mentioned above unfavorably impacted our near and long-term forecasted revenues and cash flows for the diversey care and hygiene solutions reporting units. at december 31, 2012, we considered the factors mentioned above, including our new business division structure, and we determined that further indicators of impairment were present. accordingly, we performed an interim assessment of impairment of our goodwill and long-lived assets for the diversey care and hygiene solutions reporting units. in 2012, we recorded a pre-tax non-cash impairment charge of $1,892.3 million of goodwill and other intangible assets. during 2013, the profitability and operating performance of the diversey care and hygiene solutions reporting units showed improvement over the prior year profitability and operating performance. this operating performance improvement was factored into our annual multi-year strategic forecasting and planning process, which is prepared for all reporting units in the second half of each year. in connection with this process, we evaluated the near and long-term expected business performance of all the reporting units and considered the long-term market conditions and business trends within each of the reporting units. included in these long-term forecasts are improved cash flows for the diversey care reporting unit which is being driven by improved sales growth and reduced operating expenses. the forecasted long-term sales growth is due to a combination of expected price increases across many of the regions as well as volume growth. volume growth is forecasted in the amat region and the north american region is expected to recover with low sales growth. in europe the long-term forecasts reflect volume decreases in 2014 due to the continued economic weakness in that region but are expected to show improvement starting in 2015. along with sales growth, various activities, including existing restructuring programs are expected to result in reduced operating costs and contribute to a stronger cash flow. the company is also forecasting improved cash flows for the hygiene solutions reporting unit due to improved sales growth primarily being driven from the emerging markets which includes the amat and latin american regions, due to a combination of volume growth and expected price increases, and to a lesser extent sales growth in north america. sales growth is expected to be flat in europe in 2014 but is expected to show improvement starting in 2015; however, profitability in europe is expected to improve due to product rationalization and price/ 46 table of contents mix improvements. hygiene solutions is also expecting overall improved profitability for the business resulting from improvements in sales and marketing costs which are expected to contribute to reduced operating costs and overall stronger cash flows. see note 8, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, for details of our goodwill balance and the goodwill reviews performed in 2013 and 2012 and other related information. stock appreciation rights expense sars expense for the three years ended december 31, 2013 is as follows: 2013 2012 2011 2013 vs. 2012 % change 2012 vs. 2011 % change stock appreciation rights expense $ 38.1 $ 18.4 $ # % # % as a % of net sales 0.5 % 0.2 % # % sars expense increased $20 million in 2013 as compared with 2012. sars expense includes the impact of changes in the share price of our common stock. the increase of sars expense in 2013 as compared with 2012 was primarily due to the increase in the share price of our common stock of approximately 94% in 2013 as compared with 2012. we continue to explore opportunities to mitigate the impact of the volatility sars expense is having on our consolidated results of operations. see note 19, stockholders equity, for further details of our sars program. the eps impact of sars expense was $0.16 per share in 2013 and $0.07 per share in 2012. as of december 31, 2013, we had 1.3 million sars outstanding, of which 0.8 million were unvested. the 0.8 million unvested sars vest as follows: 0.5 million in 2014, and the remainder in the first quarter of 2015. based on recent experience, we would expect vested sars to be exercised within a few months of their vesting date. costs related to the acquisition and integration of diversey we recorded transaction and integration costs directly related to the acquisition and integration of diversey of $1 million in 2013, $7 million in 2012, and $65 million in 2011. the transaction related costs were $55 million in 2011 and primarily consist of financing commitment, legal, regulatory and appraisal fees. the remainder of the costs in all periods were integration costs primarily consisting of consulting fees. as discussed above, we have excluded these costs from our adjusted eps calculations. see note 4, acquisition of diversey holdings, inc., for further discussion of the acquisition. restructuring activities earnings quality improvement program (eqip) as announced on may 1, 2013, we commenced with eqip, which is an initiative to deliver meaningful cost savings and network optimization. the plan is estimated to generate annualized savings of approximately $80 million by the end of 2015. savings for 2013 were minimal. see note 10, restructuring activities, for further discussion of the costs and liabilities associated with this program. integration and optimization program (iop) in december 2011, we initiated a restructuring program associated with the integration of diversey business following our acquisition of diversey on october 3, 2011. this program is expected to be completed by the end of 2014. we achieved $112 million of incremental cost synergies in 2013 related to this program compared with 2012. we achieved these synergies in cost of sales ($44 million) and selling, general and administrative expenses ($68 million) primarily in our food care and diversey care divisions. 47 table of contents the actual timing of future costs and cash payments related to this program are subject to change due to a variety of factors that may cause a portion of the costs, spending and benefits to occur later than expected. in addition, changes in foreign exchange rates may impact future costs, spending and benefits. see note 10, restructuring activities, for further discussion of the charges and liabilities associated with this program. operating profit (loss) management evaluates the performance of each reportable segment based on its operating profit (loss). operating profit (loss) by our segment reporting structure for the three years ended december 31, 2013 was as follows: 2013 2012 2011 2013 vs. 2012 % change 2012 vs. 2011 % change food care $ 431.4 $ (170.9 ) $ 371.2 $ # % # % as a % of food care net sales 11.3 % (4.6 )% 11.5 % diversey care 57.9 (1,278.4 ) (14.8 ) # % # % as a % of diversey care net sales 2.7 % (60.0 )% (2.8 )% product care 200.4 207.5 201.7 (3.4 )% 2.9 % as a % of product care net sales 12.5 % 13.1 % 12.7 % other category (12.7 ) (36.0 ) (20.3 ) 64.7 % (77.3 )% as a % of other category net sales (11.4 )% (32.8 )% (20.7 )% total 677.0 (1,277.8 ) 537.8 # % # % as a % of net sales 8.8 % (16.9 )% 9.8 % costs related to the acquisition and integration of diversey 1.1 7.4 64.8 (85.1 )% (88.6 )% restructuring and other charges (1) 73.8 142.5 52.2 (48.2 )% # % total operating profit (loss) $ 602.1 $ (1,427.7 ) $ 420.8 $ # % # % as a % of net sales 7.8 % (18.9 )% 7.7 % # denotes a variance greater than or equal to 100%, or not meaningful. (1) restructuring and other charges by our segment reporting structure were as follows: 2013 2012 2011 food care $ 25.1 $ 72.0 $ 13.1 diversey care 32.2 53.1 39.5 product care 16.4 16.7 (0.4 ) other category 0.1 0.7 total $ 73.8 $ 142.5 $ 52.2 see restructuring activities above for further discussion of restructuring activities. food care segment operating profit (loss) 2013 compared with 2012 food care operating profit was $431 million in 2013 compared with a $171 million operating loss in 2012. the operating loss in 2012 included a $543 million non-cash charge for impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. excluding the 2012 non-cash impairment charge, operating profit increased $59 million in 2013. this increase was primarily due to the impact of cost synergies associated with iop of $58 million, impact of higher volumes of $20 million, and favorable product/price mix and manufacturing efficiency improvements of $25 million. these factors were partially offset by higher performance based annual incentive compensation of $21 million, higher selling, general and administrative expenses of $13 million and higher sars expense of $3 million. 48 table of contents 2012 compared with 2011 the operating loss in 2012 includes the non-cash impairment charge related to goodwill and other intangible assets of $543 million. see note 8, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, for further details. excluding the non-cash impairment charge, operating profit was flat in 2012 as compared with 2011. diversey care segment operating profit (loss) 2013 compared with 2012 diversey care operating profit was $58 million in 2013 compared with a $1.3 billion operating loss in 2012. the operating loss in 2012 included a $1.3 billion non-cash impairment charge of goodwill and other intangible assets. excluding the 2012 non-cash impairment charge, operating profit increased $10 million in 2013. this increase was primarily due to the impact of cost synergies associated with iop of $34 million, and favorable product/price mix and manufacturing efficiency improvements of $20 million. these factors were partially offset by higher selling, general and administrative expenses of $14 million, higher sars expense of $17 million, non-material inflation costs of $12 million, and higher performance based annual incentive compensation of $7 million. 2012 compared with 2011 the operating loss in 2012 includes the non-cash impairment charge related to goodwill and other intangible assets of $1.3 billion. see note 8, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, for further details. excluding the non-cash impairment charge, operating profit increased by $62 million in 2012 compared to 2011, which was a result of the increase in net sales described above and lower raw materials costs being partially offset by higher selling, general and administrative costs. product care segment operating profit 2013 compared with 2012 product care operating profit declined 3% to $200 million in 2013 from $208 million in 2012. this decline of $8 million was primarily due to unfavorable impact of $14 million primarily related to non-material inflation, higher selling, general and administrative expenses of $9 million, higher performance based annual incentive compensation of $7 million, unfavorable product/price mix and manufacturing efficiency improvements of $6 million and a lifo adjustment of $3 million. these factors were partially offset by incremental cost synergies associated with iop of $19 million and the impact of higher volumes of $16 million. 2012 compared with 2011 operating profit remained flat in 2012 as compared with 2011. interest expense interest expense includes the stated interest rate on our outstanding debt, as well as the net impact of capitalized interest, the effects of interest rate swaps and the amortization of capitalized senior debt issuance costs and credit facility fees, bond discounts, and terminated treasury locks. 49 table of contents interest expense for the three years ended december 31, 2013 was as follows: 2013 2012 2011 2013 vs. 2012 change 2012 vs. 2011 change interest expense on the amount payable for the settlement agreement $ 48.2 $ 45.7 $ 43.3 $ 2.5 $ 2.4 interest expense on our various debt instruments: 5.625% senior notes due july 2013 (1) 19.2 20.7 (19.2 ) (1.5 ) 12% senior notes due february 2014 (2) 14.9 15.2 14.7 (0.3 ) 0.5 term loan a due october 2016 (3) 30.4 35.8 10.4 (5.4 ) 25.4 7.875% senior notes due june 2017 (4) 7.6 33.3 33.1 (25.7 ) 0.2 term loan b due october 2018 (3) 37.1 64.0 17.5 (26.9 ) 46.5 8.125% senior notes due september 2019 (3) 62.4 62.3 15.1 0.1 47.2 6.50% senior notes due december 2020 (1) 28.3 2.5 25.8 2.5 8.375% senior notes due september 2021 (3) 63.9 63.8 15.4 0.1 48.4 5.25% senior notes due april 2023 (4) 17.8 17.8 6.875% senior notes due july 2033 30.9 30.9 30.9 revolving credit facility (3) 4.2 4.1 1.3 0.1 2.8 other interest expense 20.2 13.4 18.4 6.8 (5.0 ) less: capitalized interest (4.9 ) (5.5 ) (4.2 ) 0.6 (1.3 ) total $ 361.0 $ 384.7 $ 216.6 $ (23.7 ) $ 168.1 (1) in november 2012, we issued $425 million of 6.50% senior notes due 2020. substantially all of the proceeds from this offering were used to purchase the outstanding amount ($400 million) of the 5.625% senior notes due july 2013. (2) we repaid the notes upon maturity on february 14, 2014. (3) in connection with the acquisition of diversey on october 3, 2011, we entered into a senior credit facility consisting of: (a) a $1.1 billion multicurrency term loan a facility, (b) a $1.2 billion multicurrency term loan b facility and (c) a $700 million revolving credit facility. we also issued $750 million of 8.125% senior notes and $750 million of 8.375% senior notes. (4) in march 2013, we issued $425 million of 5.25% senior notes due 2023. substantially all of the proceeds from this offering were used to purchase the outstanding amount ($400 million) of the 7.875% senior notes due july 2017. see note 10, debt and credit facilities, and loss on debt redemption below for further details. loss on debt redemption 2013 in november 2013, we amended our senior secured credit facility (the amended credit facility ). the amendment refinanced the term loan b facilities with a $525 million term loan b dollar tranche and a 128 million term loan b euro tranche. in connection therewith, among other things, (i) the interest margin on each tranche was decreased by 0.75%, (ii) the minimum eurocurrency rate under the term loan b facilities was reduced from 1.00% to 0.75%, and (iii) the amended credit facility provides for a six-month soft-call prepayment protection on the applicable term loan b tranches, requiring us to pay an amount equal to 1% of the aggregate principal if the facility is pre-paid under certain circumstances. we prepaid $101 million and refinanced the remaining principal amount of $697 million of the euro and u.s. dollar denominated portions of the original term loan b at 100% of their face value. we recognized a $4 million pre-tax loss on debt redemption included in our results of operations for 2013, consisting of accelerated unamortized original issuance discount, unamortized fees, and fees associated with the transaction. in march 2013, we issued $425 million of 5.25% senior notes and used substantially all of the proceeds to retire the 7.875% senior notes due june 2017. we repurchased the 7.875% senior notes at fair value. the aggregate 50 table of contents repurchase price was $431 million, which included the principal amount of $400 million, a 6% premium of $23 million and accrued interest of $8 million. we recognized a total net pre-tax loss of $32 million, which included the premiums mentioned above. 2012 in november 2012, we issued $425 million of 6.50% senior notes and used substantially all of the proceeds to retire the 5.625% senior notes due july 2013. we repurchased the 5.625% senior notes at fair value. the aggregate repurchase price was $421 million, which included the principal amount of $400 million, a 3% premium of $13 million and accrued interest of $8 million. we recognized a total net pre-tax loss of $12 million, which included the premiums mentioned above, less a gain of $1 million on the termination of a related interest rate swap. in november 2012, we amended and refinanced our senior secured credit facility to (a) reduce term loan b interest rates, (b) gain additional flexibility on the financial covenant, and (c) amend certain other terms. as a result, we recognized a non-cash pre-tax loss of $16 million for the accelerated unamortized original issuance discount of $9 million and the unamortized capitalized lender fees for $7 million. we also recorded new original issuance discount and non-lender fees for a total of $2 million, which are included in the carrying amount of the debt instruments. in addition, we recorded a non-cash pre-tax loss of $7 million of non-lender fees related to the transactions mentioned above. see note 12, debt and credit facilities for details of our debt transactions. impairment of equity method investments 2013 in 2013, we recognized an impairment of $2 million in connection with an equity method investment included in our other category. this investment was not material to our consolidated financial position or results of operations. 2012 in september 2007, we established a joint venture that supports our food care segment. we account for the joint venture under the equity method of accounting with our proportionate share of net income or losses included in other expense, net, on the consolidated statements of operations. during the first half of 2012, the joint venture performed below expectations, resulting in reduced cash flow and increasing debt obligations. due to these events, we evaluated our equity method investment for impairment. during the three months ended june 30, 2012, based on reviewing undiscounted cash flow information, we determined that the fair value of our investment was less than its carrying value and that this impairment was other-than-temporary. in connection with the establishment of the joint venture in 2007, we issued a guarantee in support of an uncommitted credit facility agreement that was entered into by the joint venture. under the terms of the guarantee, if the joint venture were to default under the terms of the credit facility, the lender would be entitled to seek payment of the amounts due under the credit facility from us. however, as a result of the impairment, we have included the guarantee liability in other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2013 and 2012 as we believe it is probable that we will need to perform under this guarantee. as of december 31, 2013, the joint venture has performed its obligations under the terms of the credit facility and the debt holders have not requested that we perform under the terms of the guarantee. as a result, in the second quarter of 2012 we recognized other-than-temporary impairment of $26 million ($18 million, net of taxes, or $0.09 per diluted share). this impairment consisted of the recognition of a current 51 table of contents liability for the guarantee of the uncommitted credit facility mentioned above of $20 million and a $4 million write-down of the carrying value of the investment to zero at june 30, 2012. we also recorded provisions for bad debt on receivables due from the joint venture to the company of $2 million, which is included in selling, general and administrative expenses and impacted our food care division. we have no additional obligations to support the operations of the joint venture in the future. foreign currency exchange (losses) gains related to venezuelan subsidiaries effective january 1, 2010, venezuela was designated a highly inflationary economy. the foreign currency exchange gains and losses we recorded in 2013, 2012 and 2011 for our venezuelan subsidiary were the result of two factors: 1) the significant changes in the exchange rates used to settle bolivar-denominated transactions and 2) the significant changes in the exchange rates used to remeasure our venezuelan subsidiary financial statements at the balance sheet date. we believe these gains and losses are attributable to the unstable foreign currency environment in venezuela. see venezuela in foreign exchange rates of item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, for further discussion on venezuela. other expense, net see note 20, other expense, net, for the components and discussion of other expense, net. income taxes our effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 47.3% for 2013, primarily due to our increase of approximately $50 million as a result of not funding the settlement agreement before the end of 2013. the delay in funding required us to increase our valuation allowance for the deferred tax asset related to the settlement agreement. excluding that increase, our tax rate would have been approximately 19%. our core tax rate for the year was 21.8% and benefited from earnings in jurisdictions with low tax rates and losses in jurisdictions, such as the u.s., with high tax rates, as well as various reorganizations and a retroactive reinstatement of certain tax provisions that were recorded as discrete items in 2013. on january 2, 2013, the president signed the american taxpayer relief act of 2012, retroactively reinstating and extending the research and development tax credit and certain foreign tax provisions from january 1, 2012 through december 31, 2013. our loss before income taxes from continuing operations for 2012 was reduced by an income tax benefit of $265 million. our effective income tax benefit rate for 2012 was 14% because our net loss resulted from an impairment charge, substantially all of which related to non-deductible goodwill, with no corresponding tax benefit. our core tax rate for the year was 26%. our tax provision for the year benefitted from earnings in jurisdictions with low tax rates and losses in jurisdictions, such as the u.s., with high tax rates, as well as favorable settlements of certain tax disputes totaling $12 million in 2012. the favorable factors were partially offset by losses in jurisdictions where we did not have any tax benefit due to the applicable tax rate or valuation allowances. our effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 30% for 2011. as described below, the legacy-diversey operations and the costs of the diversey acquisition increased our 2011 effective tax rate. for 2011, our effective income tax rate was lower than the statutory u.s. federal income tax rate of 35% primarily due to the lower net effective income tax rate on foreign earnings, as well as income tax benefits from tax credits and the domestic manufacturing deduction, partially offset by state income taxes and, in 2011, nondeductible expenses incurred in connection with the diversey acquisition. we expect a core income tax rate of approximately 25% in 2014. our effective tax rate also depends on the realization of our deferred tax assets, net of our valuation allowances. we have deferred tax assets related to the settlement agreement, other accruals not yet deductible for tax purposes, foreign tax credits, u.s. and foreign net operating loss carry forwards and investment tax allowances, employee benefit items, and other items. 52 table of contents we have established valuation allowances to reduce our deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets depends in part upon our ability to generate future taxable income during the periods in which these temporary differences reverse or our ability to carry back any losses created by the deduction of these temporary differences. we expect to realize these assets over an extended period. if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in the u.s. and certain foreign jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. conversely, if we have sufficient future taxable income in jurisdictions where we have valuation allowances, we may be able to reverse those valuation allowances. our largest deferred tax asset relates to our settlement agreement as described in note 15, commitments and contingencies. our tax benefit with respect thereto depended upon when we funded the settlement agreement. as noted above, the delay in funding the settlement agreement until 2014 required us to increase our valuation allowance, resulting in an increased tax expense of approximately $50 million in 2013. in addition, changes in statutory tax rates or other new legislation or regulation may change our deferred tax assets or liability balances, with either favorable or unfavorable impacts on our effective tax rate. see material commitments and contingencies below for further discussion. see note 17, income taxes, for a reconciliation of the u.s. federal statutory rate to our effective tax rate, which also shows the major components of the year over year changes and other tax information. liquidity and capital resources material commitments and contingencies settlement agreement and related costs we recorded a pre-tax charge of $850 million in 2002, of which $513 million represented a cash payment that we are required to make (subject to the satisfaction of the terms and conditions of the settlement agreement) upon the effectiveness of a plan of reorganization in the bankruptcy of w. r. grace &amp; co. we did not use cash in any period with respect to this liability. on february 3, 2014, upon grace emergence from bankruptcy pursuant to a plan of reorganization, the settlement agreement was implemented and our subsidiary, cryovac, inc., made the payments contemplated by the settlement agreement, consisting of aggregate cash payments in the amount of $930 million to the pi trust and the pd trust and the transfer of 18 million shares of sealed air common stock (the settlement shares ) to the pi trust, in each case reflecting adjustments made in accordance with the settlement agreement. see note 22, subsequent events, for further details. on february 3, 2014, we funded the cash portion of the settlement payment by using $555 million of accumulated cash and cash equivalents and utilized borrowings of $260 million from our revolving credit facility and $115 million from our accounts receivable securitization programs. see principal sources of liquidity below. the cash payment of $513 million accrued interest at a 5.5% annual rate, which was compounded annually, from december 21, 2002 to the february 3, 2014 date of payment. this accrued interest was $413 million at december 31, 2013 and is recorded in settlement agreement and related accrued interest on our consolidated balance sheet. the total liability on our consolidated balance sheet was $925 million at december 31, 2013. in addition, the settlement agreement provided for the issuance of the 18 million settlement shares. since the impact of issuing the settlement shares was dilutive to our eps, under u.s. gaap, they were included in our diluted weighted average number of common shares outstanding in our calculation of eps to the extent that the impact of including these shares were dilutive. see note 21, net (loss) earnings per common share, for details of our calculation of eps. tax benefits resulting from the anticipated funding of the settlement agreement were recorded as a $373 million net deferred tax asset on our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2013. this deferred tax asset reflects the cash portion of the settlement agreement and related accrued interest and the value of the 18 million shares of 53 table of contents our common stock at the post-split price of $17.86 per share, which was the price when the settlement agreement was reached in 2002. the impact of the increase in share price from 2002 to more than $30 per share on february 3, 2014 will be included as an increase to additional paid-in capital on our consolidated balance sheet when we realize the cash tax benefit as a result of our higher stock price and will have no impact to our consolidated statements of operations. we intend to carry back a significant portion of the loss resulting from our deduction under the settlement agreement. the efficiency of any amount carried back and the benefit therefrom, as well as the benefit from the amount carried forward, may depend upon, among other factors, our past and anticipated future earnings in the u.s. if we are unable to generate sufficient u.s. taxable income we could be required to increase our valuation allowance against this deferred tax asset and we may not realize the full cash tax benefit relating to this asset. this could result in a significant increase in our effective tax rate and could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in the periods in which these conditions occur. changes in statutory tax rates or other new legislation or regulation may also change our deferred tax assets or liability balances, with either favorable or unfavorable impacts on our effective tax rate. in the fourth quarter of 2013, we recorded an increase to the valuation allowance on our net deferred tax asset related to the settlement agreement, which resulted in an increase of approximately $50 million to our income tax provision (approximately $0.23 per diluted share). the information set forth in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k in note 18, commitments and contingencies, under the caption settlement agreement and related costs is incorporated herein by reference. cryovac transaction commitments and contingencies the information set forth in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k in note 18, commitments and contingencies, under the caption cryovac transaction commitments and contingencies is incorporated herein by reference. contractual obligations the following table summarizes our principal contractual obligations and sets forth the amounts of required or contingently required cash outlays in 2013 and future years: payments due by years total 2014 2015-2016 2017-2018 thereafter contractual obligations short-term borrowings $ 81.6 $ 81.6 $ $ $ current portion of long-term debt exclusive of debt discounts and lender fees 201.5 201.5 long-term debt, exclusive of debt discounts and lender fees 4,145.2 648.2 697.0 2,800.0 total debt (1) 4,428.3 283.1 648.2 697.0 2,800.0 interest payments due on long-term debt (2) 1,980.6 247.6 474.9 447.2 810.9 operating leases 194.9 64.4 77.3 29.9 23.3 cash portion of the settlement agreement and related accrued interest (3) 925.1 925.1 first quarter 2014 quarterly cash dividend declared 25.5 25.5 other principal contractual obligations 434.3 182.5 179.6 55.5 16.7 total contractual cash obligations $ 7,988.7 $ 1,728.2 $ 1,380.0 $ 1,229.6 $ 3,650.9 54 table of contents (1) these amounts include principal maturities (at face value) only. these amounts also include our contractual obligations under capital leases of $1.1 million in 2014, $1.0 million in 2015-2016 and $0.3 million in 2017-2018. (2) includes interest payments required under our senior notes issuances and amended credit facility only. the interest payments included above for our term loan a and b were calculated using the following assumptions: interest rates based on stated rates based on libor as of december 31, 2013; all non-u.s. dollar balances are converted using exchange rates as of december 31, 2013; and assumes obligations are repaid when due. (3) on february 3, 2014, we funded this liability. see note 22, subsequent events for further details. current portion of long-term debt and long-term debt represents the principal amount of the debt required to be repaid in each period. operating leases the contractual operating lease obligations listed in the table above represent estimated future minimum annual rental commitments primarily under non-cancelable real and personal property leases as of december 31, 2013. other principal contractual obligations other principal contractual obligations include agreements to purchase an estimated amount of goods, including raw materials, or services, including energy, in the normal course of business. these obligations are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, minimum or variable price provisions and the approximate timing of the purchase. the amounts included in the table above represent estimates of the minimum amounts we are obligated to pay, or reasonably likely to pay under these agreements. we may purchase additional goods or services above the minimum requirements of these obligations and, as a result use additional cash. liability for unrecognized tax benefits at december 31, 2013, we had liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties of $249 million, most of which is included in other liabilities and the remaining balance as a reduction to current deferred tax assets on the consolidated balance sheet. at december 31, 2013, we cannot reasonably estimate the future period or periods of cash settlement of these liabilities. see note 17, income taxes, for further discussion. off-balance sheet arrangements we have reviewed our off-balance sheet arrangements and have determined that none of those arrangements has a material current effect or is reasonably likely to have a material future effect on our consolidated financial statements, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. income tax payments we currently expect to pay between $100 million and $120 million of income taxes in 2014. contributions to defined benefit pension plans we maintain defined benefit pension plans for some of our u.s. and our non-u.s. employees. we currently expect our contributions to these plans be approximately $30 million in 2014. environmental matters we are subject to loss contingencies resulting from environmental laws and regulations, and we accrue for anticipated costs associated with investigatory and remediation efforts when an assessment has indicated that a 55 table of contents loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. these accruals do not take into account any discounting for the time value of money and are not reduced by potential insurance recoveries, if any. we do not believe that it is reasonably possible that the liability in excess of the amounts that we have accrued for environmental matters will be material to our consolidated financial position and results of operations. we reassess environmental liabilities whenever circumstances become better defined or we can better estimate remediation efforts and their costs. we evaluate these liabilities periodically based on available information, including the progress of remedial investigations at each site, the current status of discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the methods and extent of remediation and the apportionment of costs among potentially responsible parties. as some of these issues are decided (the outcomes of which are subject to uncertainties) or new sites are assessed and costs can be reasonably estimated, we adjust the recorded accruals, as necessary. we believe that these exposures are not material to our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we believe that we have adequately reserved for all probable and estimable environmental exposures. principal sources of liquidity our primary sources of cash are the collection of trade receivables generated from the sales of our products and services to our customers and amounts available under our existing lines of credit, including our amended credit facility, and our accounts receivable securitization programs. our primary uses of cash are payments for operating expenses, restructuring expenses, investments in working capital, capital expenditures, interest, taxes, dividends, debt obligations and other long-term liabilities. we believe that our current liquidity position and future cash flows from operations will enable us to fund our operations, including all of the items mentioned above in the next twelve months. on february 3, 2014, we funded the $930 million settlement agreement and accrued interest liability using cash on hand and committed liquidity. to fund the cash payment, we used $555 million of cash and cash equivalents and utilized borrowings of $260 million from our revolving credit facility and $115 million from our accounts receivable securitization programs. see note 22, subsequent events, for further details. also, on february 14, 2014, we repaid our 12% senior notes on their maturity date with available cash on hand and committed liquidity. see note 12, debt and credit facilities, for further details. as of december 31, 2013, we had cash and cash equivalents of $992 million, of which approximately $540 million, or 54%, was located outside of the u.s. as of december 31, 2013, there were certain foreign government regulations restricting transfers on less than $65 million of the cash located outside of the u.s. as of december 31, 2013, our u.s. cash balances and committed liquidity facilities available to u.s. borrowers were sufficient to fund our u.s. operating requirements and capital expenditures, current debt obligations and dividends. the company does not expect that in the near term cash located outside of the u.s. will be needed to satisfy its obligations, dividends and other demands for cash in its u.s. operations. in connection with the funding of the settlement agreement in 2014, we repatriated cash from our international operations and believe that the repatriation of cash should result in minimal cash taxes and no significant tax expense. cash and cash equivalents the following table summarizes our accumulated cash and cash equivalents: december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 cash and cash equivalents $ 992.4 $ 679.6 see analysis of historical cash flows below. lines of credit there were no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility at december 31, 2013 and 2012. there was $60 million outstanding under various uncommitted lines of credit and $22 million outstanding under various committed lines of credit extended to our international subsidiaries at december 31, 2013 and $39 million at december 31, 2012. see note 12, debt and credit facilities, for further details. 56 table of contents accounts receivable securitization programs at december 31, 2013, we had $209 million available to us under the programs. we did not utilize these programs in 2013 and 2012. see note 9, accounts receivable securitization programs, for information concerning these programs. covenants at december 31, 2013 and 2012, we were in compliance with our financial covenants and limitations, as discussed in covenants of note 12, debt and credit facilities. debt ratings our cost of capital and ability to obtain external financing may be affected by our debt ratings, which the credit rating agencies review periodically. below is a table that details our credit ratings by the various types of debt by rating agency. moody investor services standard &amp; poor corporate rating ba3 bb senior unsecured rating b1 bb senior secured credit facility rating ba1 bb+ outlook stable stable these credit ratings are considered to be below investment grade. if our credit ratings are downgraded, there could be a negative impact on our ability to access capital markets and borrowing costs could increase. a credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. outstanding indebtedness at december 31, 2013 and 2012, our total debt outstanding consisted of the amounts set forth in the following table. december 31, 2013 2012 short-term borrowings $ 81.6 $ 39.2 current portion of long-term debt 201.5 1.8 total current debt 283.1 41.0 total long-term debt, less current portion 4,116.4 4,540.8 total debt $ 4,399.5 $ 4,581.8 see note 12, debt and credit facilities, for further details. analysis of historical cash flow the following table shows the changes in our consolidated cash flows from continuing operations in the three years ended december 31, 2013. 2013 2012 2011 net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations $ 624.8 $ 394.2 $ 363.1 net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations (105.5 ) (114.9 ) (2,365.7 ) net cash (used in) provided by financing activities from continuing operations (319.8 ) (585.1 ) 2,016.4 57 table of contents net cash provided by operating activities 2013 net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations in 2013 of $625 million was primarily attributable to net earnings adjusted to reconcile to net cash provided by operating activities of $511 million, which primarily included adjustments for depreciation and amortization, share-based incentive compensation expenses, profit sharing expense and loss on debt redemption. net changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted in net cash provided by operating activities of $114 million in 2013, primarily in trade receivables, net, inventories and accounts payable. in 2013, we reduced our day sales outstanding by three days, reduced our inventory days on hand by four days, and increased our days payables outstanding by two days. 2012 net cash provided by continuing operating activities in 2012 was primarily attributable to net earnings adjusted to reconcile to net cash provided by operating activities of $407 million, which primarily included adjustments for depreciation and amortization, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, share-based incentive compensation expenses, profit sharing expenses impairment of equity method investment and deferred taxes. in 2012, our adjustments to reconcile net earnings (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations included a $319 million change in net deferred taxes. this amount primarily related to the impact of the deferred taxes recorded in connection with the non-cash impairment of other intangible assets, which is included in adjustments to reconcile net earnings (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations to offset the impact of the non-cash tax benefit that is included in net (loss) earnings available to common stockholders from continuing operations. net cash provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted in a net cash use of $13 million in 2012. 2011 net cash provided by continuing operating activities in 2011 was primarily attributable to net earnings adjusted to reconcile to net cash provided by operating activities of $377 million, which primarily included adjustments for depreciation and amortization, costs related to the acquisition of diversey and share-based incentive compensation expenses. net cash provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted in a net use of cash of $14 million in 2011. net cash used in investing activities 2013 net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations in 2013 of $106 million primarily consisted of capital expenditures of $116 million, related to capacity expansions to support growth in net sales. capital expenditure related to our restructuring programs were $25 million in 2013. 2012 in 2012, we used net cash of $115 million in investing activities, which was primarily due to capital expenditures of $123 million. 2011 in 2011, we used net cash of $2.4 billion in investing activities due to capital expenditures of $122 million and the acquisition of diversey for $2.2 billion. see note 4, acquisition of diversey holdings, inc. for further information. we expect to continue to invest capital as we deem appropriate to expand our business, to maintain or replace depreciating property, plant and equipment, to acquire new manufacturing technology and to improve 58 table of contents productivity and net sales growth. we expect total capital expenditures in 2014 to be approximately $170 million, which include capital expenditures of $34 million associated with the eqip and iop programs. this projection is based upon our capital expenditure budget for 2014, the status of approved but not yet completed capital projects, anticipated future projects and historic spending trends. net cash (used in) provided by financing activities 2013 net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was primarily due to the following: repurchase of $400 million on 7.875% senior notes due june 2017 for $431 million; prepayments of $152 million on term loan a; prepayments of $104 million on term loan b; and payments of $102 million of quarterly dividends. these factors were partially offset by issuance of $425 million of 5.25% senior notes due april 2023 and short term borrowings of $53 million. 2012 net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to the following: repurchase of $400 million on 5.625% senior notes due july 2013 for $421 million; prepayments of $185 million on term loan a; prepayments of $1.1 billion on term loan b; and payments of $101 million of quarterly dividends, partially offset by: issuance of $425 million of 6.50% senior notes due december 2020. refinancing of $80 million of term loan a; and refinancing of $801 million on term loan b. 2011 net cash provided by financing activities was primarily due to the following: net proceeds of $1.1 billion from term loan b; net proceeds of $946 million from term loan a; issuance of $750 million of 8.125% senior notes due september 2019; issuance of $750 million of 8.375% senior notes due september 2021; and changes in restricted cash of $263 million, which was used in connection with the acquisition of diversey holdings, inc. partially offset by: the repayment of existing indebtedness of diversey of $1.6 billion, in connection with the acquisition of diversey; the payment of our required 2011 and prepayment of our required 2012 term loan a facility and term loan b facility amortization payments totaling $97 million; payments of quarterly dividends of $87 million; 59 table of contents net payments of short-term borrowings of $7 million; payments of debt issuance costs of $51 million in connection with the financing of the acquisition of diversey; and the acquisition of 0.5 million shares of common stock with a fair market value of $13 million that were withheld from employees to satisfy their minimum tax withholding obligations under our 2005 contingent stock plan. free cash flow in addition to net cash provided by operating activities, we use free cash flow as a useful measure of performance and as an indication of the strength and ability of our operations to generate cash. we define free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures (which is classified as an investing activity). free cash flow is not defined under u.s. gaap. therefore, it should not be considered a substitute for net income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. free cash flow does not represent residual cash available for discretionary expenditures, including certain debt servicing requirements or non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from this measure. we typically generate the majority of our annual free cash flow in the second half of the year. below find details of free cash flow for three years ended december 31. year ended december 31, change 2013 2012 2011 2013 vs. 2012 2012 vs. 2011 cash flow provided by operating activities continuing operations $ 624.8 $ 394.2 $ 363.1 $ 230.6 $ 31.1 capital expenditures for property and equipment (116.0 ) (122.8 ) (121.7 ) 6.8 (1.1 ) free cash flow $ 508.8 $ 271.4 $ 241.4 $ 237.4 $ 30.0 changes in working capital december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 change working capital (current assets less current liabilities) $ 716.9 $ 954.3 $ (237.4 ) current ratio (current assets divided by current liabilities) 1.3 x 1.4 x quick ratio (current assets, less inventories divided by current liabilities) 1.0 x 1.1 x the $237 million, or 25%, decrease in working capital in the year ended december 31, 2013 was primarily due to: the classification of our 12% senior notes due 2014, and a portion of our term loan a and term loan b to current portion of long-term debt from long-term debt; and a net decrease in working capital items, primarily accounts receivable, inventories and accounts payable of $171 million. changes in stockholders equity the $54 million, or 4%, decrease in stockholders equity in 2013 compared with 2012 was primarily due to dividends paid and accrued on our common stock of $103 million and cumulative translation adjustment of $110 million, partially offset by net earnings of $124 million and an increase in treasury stock of $26 million primarily due to the transfer of common stock from treasury stock as part of our 2012 profit sharing plan contribution made in 2013. 60 table of contents derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps the information set forth in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k in note 12, derivatives and hedging activities, under the caption interest rate swaps is incorporated herein by reference. foreign currency forward contracts at december 31, 2013, we were party to foreign currency forward contracts, which did not have a significant impact on our liquidity. the information set forth in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k in note 12, derivatives and hedging activities, under the caption foreign currency forward contracts is incorporated herein by reference. for further discussion about these contracts and other financial instruments, see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. recently issued statements of financial accounting standards, accounting guidance and disclosure requirements we are subject to numerous recently issued statements of financial accounting standards, accounting guidance and disclosure requirements. note 2, summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards, which is contained in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k, describes these new accounting standards and is incorporated herein by reference. critical accounting policies and estimates our discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap. the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. our estimates and assumptions are evaluated on an ongoing basis and are based on all available evidence, including historical experience and other factors believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. to derive these estimates and assumptions, management draws from those available sources that can best contribute to its efforts. these sources include our officers and other employees, outside consultants and legal counsel, third-party experts and actuaries. in addition, we use internally generated reports and statistics, such as aging of trade receivable, as well as outside sources such as government statistics, industry reports and third-party research studies. the results of these estimates and assumptions may form the basis of the carrying value of assets and liabilities and may not be readily apparent from other sources. actual results may differ from estimates under conditions and circumstances different from those assumed, and any such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. we believe the following accounting policies are critical to understanding our consolidated results of operations and affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. the critical accounting policies discussed below should be read together with our significant accounting policies set forth in note 2, summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards. accounts receivable and allowance for doubtful accounts in the normal course of business, we extend credit to our customers if they satisfy pre-defined credit criteria. we maintain an accounts receivable allowance for estimated losses resulting from the failure of our customers to 61 table of contents make required payments. an additional allowance may be required if the financial condition of our customers deteriorates. the allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that management assesses to be appropriate to absorb estimated losses in the accounts receivable portfolio. the allowance for doubtful accounts is reviewed quarterly, and changes to the allowance are made through the provision for bad debts, which is included in selling, general and administrative expenses on our consolidated statements of operations. these changes may reflect changes in economic, business and market conditions. the allowance is increased by the provision for bad debts and decreased by the amount of charge-offs, net of recoveries. the provision for bad debts charged against operating results is based on several factors including, but not limited to, a regular assessment of the collectability of specific customer balances, the length of time a receivable is past due and our historical experience with our customers. in circumstances where a specific customer inability to meet its financial obligations is known, we record a specific provision for bad debt against amounts due thereby reducing the receivable to the amount we reasonably assess will be collected. if circumstances change, such as higher than expected defaults or an unexpected material adverse change in a major customer ability to pay, our estimates of recoverability could be reduced by a material amount. fair value measurements of financial instruments in determining fair value of financial instruments, we utilize valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs to the extent possible and consider counterparty credit risk in our assessment of fair value. we determine fair value of our financial instruments based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability in the principal or most advantageous market. when considering market participant assumptions in fair value measurements, the following fair value hierarchy distinguishes between observable and unobservable inputs, which are categorized in one of the following levels: level 1 inputs: unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities accessible to the reporting entity at the measurement date. level 2 inputs: other than quoted prices included in level 1 inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. level 3 inputs: unobservable inputs for the asset or liability used to measure fair value to the extent that observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at measurement date. our fair value measurements for our financial instruments are subjective and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment. changes in assumptions could significantly affect our estimates. see note 14, fair value measurements and other financial instruments, for further details on our fair value measurements. commitments and contingencies litigation on an ongoing basis, we assess the potential liabilities and costs related to any lawsuits or claims brought against us. we accrue a liability when we believe a loss is probable and when the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. litigation proceedings are evaluated on a case-by-case basis considering the available information, including that received from internal and outside legal counsel, to assess potential outcomes. while it is typically very difficult to determine the timing and ultimate outcome of these actions, we use our best judgment to determine if it is probable that we will incur an expense related to the settlement or final adjudication of these matters and whether a reasonable estimation of the probable loss, if any, can be made. in assessing probable losses, we consider insurance recoveries, if any. we expense legal costs, including those legal costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency, as incurred. we have in the past adjusted existing accruals as proceedings have continued, been settled or otherwise provided further information on which we could review the likelihood of outflows of resources and their measurability, and we expect to do so in future periods. due to the inherent uncertainties related to the eventual outcome of litigation and potential insurance recovery, it is possible that disputed matters may be resolved for amounts materially different from any provisions or disclosures that we have previously made. 62 table of contents impairment of long-lived assets for finite-lived intangible assets, such as customer relationships, contracts and intellectual property, and for other long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment, whenever impairment indicators are present, we perform a review for impairment. we calculate the undiscounted value of the projected cash flows associated with the asset, or asset group, and compare this estimated amount to the carrying amount. if the carrying amount is found to be greater, we record an impairment loss for the excess of book value over the fair value. in addition, in all cases of an impairment review, we re-evaluate the remaining useful lives of the assets and modify them as appropriate. for indefinite lived intangible assets, such as in-process research and development and trademarks and trade names, each year and whenever impairment indicators are present, we determine the fair value of the asset and record an impairment loss for the excess of book value over fair value, if any. in addition, in all cases of an impairment review other than for in-process research and development assets, we re-evaluate whether continuing to characterize the asset as indefinite lived is appropriate. goodwill goodwill is reviewed for possible impairment at least annually on a reporting unit level during the fourth quarter of each year. a review of goodwill may be initiated before or after conducting the annual analysis if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable. a reporting unit is the operating segment unless, at businesses one level below that operating segment the component level discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management, and the component has economic characteristics that are different from the economic characteristics of the other components of the operating segment, in which case the component is the reporting unit. while we are permitted to conduct a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is necessary to perform a two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test, for our annual goodwill impairment test in the fourth quarter of 2013, we performed a quantitative test for all of our reporting units. the goodwill impairment test involves a two-step process. in step one, we compare the fair value of each of our reporting units with goodwill to its carrying value, including the goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. if the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, there is no indication of impairment and no further testing is required. if the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value, we must perform step two of the impairment test to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. in step two, the reporting unit fair value is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, including any unrecognized intangible assets, in a hypothetical analysis that calculates the implied fair value of goodwill in the same manner as if the reporting unit were being acquired in a business combination. if the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is less than the carrying value, the difference is recorded as an impairment loss. we use a fair value approach to test goodwill for impairment. we must recognize a non-cash impairment charge for the amount, if any, by which the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. we derive an estimate of fair values for each of our reporting units using a combination of an income approach and appropriate market approaches, each based on an applicable weighting. we assess the applicable weighting based on such factors as current market conditions and the quality and reliability of the data. absent an indication of fair value from a potential buyer or similar specific transactions, we believe that the use of these methods provides a reasonable estimate of a reporting unit fair value. fair value computed by these methods is arrived at using a number of factors, including projected future operating results, anticipated future cash flows, effective income tax rates, comparable marketplace data within a consistent industry grouping, and the cost of capital. there are inherent uncertainties, however, related to these factors and to our judgment in applying them to this analysis. nonetheless, we believe that the combination of these methods provides a reasonable approach to estimate the fair value of our reporting units. assumptions for sales, net earnings and cash flows for each reporting unit were consistent among these methods. 63 table of contents income approach used to determine fair values the income approach is based upon the present value of expected cash flows. expected cash flows are converted to present value using factors that consider the timing and risk of the future cash flows. the estimate of cash flows used is prepared on an unleveraged debt-free basis. we use a discount rate that reflects a market-derived weighted average cost of capital. we believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon the reporting unit expected long-term operating and cash flow performance. the projections are based upon our best estimates of projected economic and market conditions over the related period including growth rates, estimates of future expected changes in operating margins and cash expenditures. other significant estimates and assumptions include terminal value long-term growth rates, provisions for income taxes, future capital expenditures and changes in future cashless, debt-free working capital. 2013 annual goodwill impairment test critical assumptions that the company used in performing the income approach for its reporting units included the following: applying a compounded annual growth rate for forecasted sales in our projected cash flows through 2016. reporting unit compounded annual growth rate diversey care 3.5 % food care hygiene solutions 5.7 % food care packaging solutions 2.7 % product care 3.2 % medical applications 8.3 % applying a terminal value growth rate of 3% for all of our reporting units to reflect our estimate of stable and perpetual growth. determining an appropriate discount rate to apply to our projected cash flow results. this discount rate reflects, among other things, certain risks due to the uncertainties of achieving the cash flow results and the growth rates assigned. the discount rates applied were as follows: reporting unit discount rate diversey care 10.5 % food care hygiene solutions 11.6 % food care packaging solutions 9.6 % product care 10.0 % medical applications 13.7 % a weighting of the results of the income approach of 80% of our overall fair value calculation for each reporting unit. changes in any of these assumptions could materially impact the estimated fair value of our reporting units. our forecasts take into account the near and long-term expected business performance, considering the long-term market conditions and business trends within the reporting units. for example, our current diversey care and hygiene solutions forecasts include an assumption of a modest economic recovery for europe beyond 2014. given the significant amount of revenue we generate from the diversey care and hygiene solutions businesses in europe, the failure to realize or capitalize from this economic recovery may impact our ability to recover the allocated goodwill in the future. for further discussion of the factors that could result in a change in our assumptions, see risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k and our other filings with the sec. 64 table of contents 2012 fourth quarter interim goodwill impairment test as discussed in note 8, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, a goodwill impairment charge was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2012 related to the diversey care and hygiene solutions reporting units. the critical assumptions that the company used in performing the income approach for these reporting units for the 2012 fourth quarter interim goodwill impairment review included the following: applying a compounded annual growth rate of 2.3% for forecasted sales for the diversey care and hygiene solutions reporting units in our projected future cash flows through 2017. applying a terminal value growth rate beyond 2017 of 3% for the diversey care and hygiene solutions reporting units to reflect our estimate of stable and perpetual growth. determining an appropriate discount rate to apply to our projected cash flow results. this discount rate reflects, among other things, certain risks due to the uncertainties of achieving the cash flow results and the growth rates assigned. the discount rates applied were 11.3% for the diversey care reporting unit and 12.2% for the hygiene solutions reporting unit. a weighting of the results of the income approach of 80% of our overall fair value calculation. market approaches used to determine fair values each year we consider various relevant market approaches that could be used to determine fair value. the first market approach estimates the fair value of the reporting unit by applying multiples of operating performance measures to the reporting unit operating performance (the public company method ). these multiples are derived from comparable publicly-traded companies with similar investment characteristics to the reporting unit, and such comparables are reviewed and updated as needed annually. we believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate using multiples from entities with operations and economic characteristics comparable to our reporting units and the company. the second market approach is based on the publicly traded common stock of the company, and the estimate of fair value of the reporting unit is based on the applicable multiples of the company (the quoted price method ). the third market approach is based on recent mergers and acquisitions of comparable publicly-traded and privately-held companies in our industries (the mergers and acquisition method ). the key estimates and assumptions that are used to determine fair value under these market approaches include trailing and future 12-month operating performance results and the selection of the relevant multiples to be applied. under the first and second market approaches, a control premium, or an amount that a buyer is usually willing to pay over the current market price of a publicly traded company, is applied to the calculated equity values to adjust the public trading value upward for a 100% ownership interest, where applicable. in order to assess the reasonableness of the calculated fair values of our reporting units, we also compare the sum of the reporting units fair values to our market capitalization and calculate an implied control premium (the excess of the sum of the reporting units fair values over the market capitalization). we evaluate the control premium by comparing it to control premiums of recent comparable market transactions. if the implied control premium is not reasonable in light of these recent transactions, we will reevaluate our fair value estimates of the reporting units by adjusting the discount rates and/or other assumptions. for the fourth quarter 2012 interim goodwill impairment review and the 2013 annual goodwill impairment review of the diversey care and hygiene solutions reporting units, we evaluated each of the above market approaches and determined that the public company and quoted price methods provided the most reliable measures of fair value because they were deemed to be a reliable proxy for the diversey care and hygiene solutions reporting units. we applied a combined weighting of 20% to the two market approaches when determining the fair value of each of the reporting units. for the 2013 annual goodwill impairment review of the 65 table of contents packaging solutions, product care and medical applications reporting units, we also evaluated each of the above market approaches and determined that the public company, the quoted price and the mergers and acquisition methods provided the most reliable measures of fair value because they were deemed to be a reliable proxy for these reporting units. we applied a combined weighting of 20% to the three market approaches when determining the fair value of these reporting units. 2013 compared to fourth quarter 2012 diversey care and hygiene solutions reporting units for our 2013 annual goodwill impairment test, we determined that our diversey care reporting unit had an estimated fair value in excess of its respective carrying value of approximately 27% which represents an increase from the negative 12% previously calculated as of the fourth quarter of 2012. the hygiene solutions reporting unit had an estimated fair value in excess of its respective carrying value of approximately 91% which represents an increase from the 8% previously calculated as of the fourth quarter of 2012. the increase in fair value of the diversey care reporting unit was due to improved forecasted cash flows which was driven by improved sales growth and reduced operating expenses. the forecasted long-term sales growth is due to a combination of expected price increases across many of the regions as well as volume growth. volume growth is forecasted in the amat region and the north american region is expected to recover with low sales growth. in europe the long-term forecasts reflect volume decreases in 2014 due to the continued economic weakness in that region but are expected to show improvement starting in 2015. along with sales growth, various activities, including existing restructuring programs are expected to continue to result in reduced operating costs and contribute to a stronger cash flow. the company is forecasting improved cash flows for the hygiene solutions reporting unit due to improved sales growth primarily being driven from the emerging markets which includes the amat and latin american regions due to a combination of volume growth and expected price increases; and to a lesser extent sales growth in north america. sales growth is expected to be flat in europe in 2014 but is expected to show improvement starting in 2015; however, profitability in europe is expected to improve due to product rationalization and price/mix improvements. hygiene solutions is also expecting overall improved profitability for the business resulting from improvements in sales and marketing costs which are expected to contribute to reduced operating costs and overall stronger cash flows. in addition, discount rates decreased in the 2013 annual goodwill review compared to the 2012 fourth quarter goodwill review which contributed to the increased fair value. the discount rate for any given impairment test is based on current market data as of the respective valuation date and adjusted upward to incorporate certain risks due to performance of the reporting units. the improved operating performance of the reporting units in 2013 and management expectation regarding improved long-term growth rates and overall profitability, contributed to the reduced risk component of the discount rates used in the 2013 valuation. if our assumptions and related estimates change in the future, or if we change our reporting unit structure or other events and circumstances change (such as a sustained decrease in the price of our common stock, a decline in current market multiples, a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climates, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, heightened competition, strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions or a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of), we may be required to record impairment charges in future periods. any impairment charges that we may take in the future could be material to our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. in order to evaluate the sensitivity of the estimated fair values of our reporting units in the goodwill impairment test, we applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit. this hypothetical 10% decrease resulted in an excess of fair value over carrying amount ranging from approximately 14% to approximately 279% of the carrying amounts. this hypothetical 10% decrease resulted in the diversey care and hygiene solutions reporting 66 table of contents units having the excess of fair value over carrying amount of 14% and 72%, respectively. we will continue to monitor goodwill on an annual basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as significant adverse changes in business climate or operating results, changes in management business strategy or significant declines in our stock price, indicate that there may be potential indicator of impairment. see note 8, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, for details of our goodwill balance and the goodwill review performed in 2013 and 2012 and other related information. pensions for a number of our u.s. employees and our international employees, we maintain defined benefit pension plans. under current accounting standards, we are required to make assumptions regarding the valuation of projected benefit obligations and the performance of plan assets for our defined benefit pension plans. the projected benefit obligation and the net periodic benefit cost are based on third-party actuarial assumptions and estimates that are reviewed and approved by management on a plan-by-plan basis each fiscal year. the principal assumptions concern the discount rate used to measure the projected benefit obligation, the expected future rate of return on plan assets and the expected rate of future compensation increases. we revise these assumptions based on an annual evaluation of long-term trends and market conditions that may have an impact on the cost of providing retirement benefits. in determining the discount rate, we utilize market conditions and other data sources management considers reasonable based upon the profile of the remaining service life of eligible employees. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is determined by taking into consideration the weighted-average expected return on our asset allocation, asset return data, historical return data, and the economic environment. we believe these considerations provide the basis for reasonable assumptions of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. the rate of compensation increase is based on our long-term plans for such increases. the measurement date used to determine the benefit obligation and plan assets is december 31. at december 31, 2013, the total projected benefit obligation for our u.s. pension plans was $192 million, and the total net periodic benefit cost for the year ended december 31, 2013 was $1 million. at december 31, 2013, the total projected benefit obligation for our international pension plans was $1.1 billion, and the total net periodic benefit cost for the year ended december 31, 2013 was $16 million. in general, material changes to the principal assumptions could have a material impact on the costs and liabilities recognized on our consolidated financial statements. a 25 basis point change in the assumed discount rate and a 100 basis point change in the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets would have resulted in the following increases (decreases) in the projected benefit obligation at december 31, 2013 and the expected net periodic benefit cost for the year ended december 31, 2014 (in millions). united states 25 basis point increase 25 basis point decrease discount rate effect on 2013 projected benefit obligation $ (4.5 ) $ 4.6 effect on 2014 expected net periodic benefit cost (0.1 ) 100 basis point increase 100 basis point decrease return on assets effect on 2014 expected net periodic benefit cost $ (1.7 ) $ 1.7 67 table of contents international 25 basis point increase 25 basis point decrease discount rate effect on 2013 projected benefit obligation $ (45.1 ) $ 47.7 effect on 2014 expected net periodic benefit cost (2.7 ) 2.8 100 basis point increase 100 basis point decrease return on assets effect on 2014 expected net periodic benefit cost $ (8.4 ) $ 8.4 income taxes estimates and judgments are required in the calculation of tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of our deferred tax assets. our deferred tax assets arise from net deductible temporary differences, tax benefit carry forwards and foreign tax credits. we evaluate whether our taxable earnings during the periods when the temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets become deductible or when tax benefit carry forwards may be utilized should be sufficient to realize the related future income tax benefits. for those jurisdictions where the expiration dates of tax benefit carry forwards or the projected taxable earnings indicate that realization is not likely, we provide a valuation allowance. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable earnings, with consideration for the feasibility of ongoing planning strategies and the realizability of tax benefit carry forwards and past operating results, to determine which deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized in the future. changes to tax laws, statutory tax rates and future taxable earnings can have an impact on valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets. in the event that actual results differ from these estimates in future periods, we may need to adjust the valuation allowance, which could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. in calculating our worldwide provision for income taxes, we also evaluate our tax positions for years where the statutes of limitations have not expired. based on this review, we may establish reserves for additional taxes and interest that could be assessed upon examination by relevant tax authorities. we adjust these reserves to take into account changing facts and circumstances, including the results of tax audits and changes in tax law. if the payment of additional taxes and interest ultimately proves unnecessary or less than the amount of the reserve, the reversal of the reserves would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the reserves are no longer necessary. if an estimate of tax reserves proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to income tax provision would result. these adjustments to reserves and related expenses could materially affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. we recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. the tax benefits recognized in the consolidated financial statements from such positions are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon settlement with tax authorities. see note 17, income taxes, for further discussion. 68 table of contents summarized quarterly financial information (unaudited, in millions, except share data) (1) 2013 first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter revised (1) revised (1) revised (1) net sales $ 1,828.9 $ 1,937.4 $ 1,912.0 $ 2,012.5 gross profit 612.2 659.1 649.9 666.3 net earnings from continuing operations 0.7 54.3 35.1 3.6 net earnings from discontinued operations 2.0 2.0 2.5 24.0 net earnings available to common stockholders 2.7 56.3 37.6 27.6 basic net earnings per common share continuing operations $ $ 0.28 $ 0.18 $ 0.02 discontinued operations 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.12 net earnings per common share basic $ 0.01 $ 0.29 $ 0.19 $ 0.14 diluted net earnings per common share continuing operations $ $ 0.25 $ 0.17 $ 0.02 discontinued operations 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.11 net earnings per common share diluted $ 0.01 $ 0.26 $ 0.18 $ 0.13 2012 first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter revised (1) revised (1) revised (1) revised (1) net sales $ 1,822.8 $ 1,901.9 $ 1,878.6 $ 1,955.9 gross profit 615.3 622.7 638.3 646.0 net earnings (loss) from continuing operations (10.1 ) (22.6 ) (1,240.0 ) (345.2 ) net earnings from discontinued operations 4.1 9.0 7.6 186.9 net earnings (loss) available to common stockholders (6.0 ) (13.6 ) (1,232.4 ) (158.3 ) basic net earnings (loss) per common share continuing operations $ (0.05 ) $ (0.12 ) $ (6.42 ) $ (1.79 ) discontinued operations 0.02 0.05 0.04 0.97 net earnings (loss) per common share basic $ (0.03 ) $ (0.07 ) $ (6.38 ) $ (0.82 ) diluted net earnings (loss) per common share continuing operations $ (0.05 ) $ (0.12 ) $ (6.42 ) $ (1.79 ) discontinued operations 0.02 0.05 0.04 0.97 net earnings (loss) per common share diluted $ (0.03 ) $ (0.07 ) $ (6.38 ) $ (0.82 ) (1) on december 6, 2013, we completed the sale of the rigid medical packaging business. on november 14, 2012, we completed the sale of diversey japan. operating results for the rigid medical packaging business and diversey japan were reclassified to discontinued operations for the periods since the first quarter of 2012, and, accordingly, all prior period information has been revised. see note 3, divestitures, for further information about the sales. 69 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in the conditions in the global financial markets, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices and the creditworthiness of our customers and suppliers, which may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we seek to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. we do not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rates from time to time, we may use interest rate swaps, collars or options to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. at december 31, 2013, we had $100 million notional amount of outstanding interest rate swaps and no outstanding interest rate collars or options. the information set forth in item 8 of part ii of this annual report on form 10-k in note 13, derivatives and hedging activities, under the caption interest rate swaps, is incorporated herein by reference. see note 14, fair value measurements and other financial instruments, for details of the methodology and inputs used to determine the fair value of our fixed rate debt. the fair value of our fixed rate debt varies with changes in interest rates. generally, the fair value of fixed rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease of $108 million in the fair value of the total debt balance at december 31, 2013. these changes in the fair value of our fixed rate debt do not alter our obligations to repay the outstanding principal amount or any related interest of such debt. foreign exchange rates operations as a large global organization, we face exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could materially impact our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in the future. see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, above for the impacts foreign currency translation had on our operations. venezuela economic events in venezuela have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risk. effective january 1, 2010, venezuela was designated a highly inflationary economy under u.s. gaap, and the u.s. dollar replaced the bolivar fuerte as the functional currency for our subsidiaries in venezuela. accordingly, all bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities were re-measured into u.s. dollars using the then current exchange rate available to us, and any changes in the exchange rate were reflected in foreign currency exchange gains and losses related to our venezuelan subsidiaries on the consolidated statements of operations. the potential future impact to our consolidated financial condition and results of operations for bolivar-denominated transactions will depend on our access to u.s. dollars and on the exchange rates in effect when we enter into, remeasure and settle transactions. therefore, it is difficult to predict the future impact until each transaction settles at its applicable exchange rate or gets remeasured into u.s. dollars. 70 table of contents on february 8, 2013, the venezuelan government announced a devaluation of the bolivar exchange rate from 4.3 bolivars to the u.s. dollar to 6.3 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. we used this official exchange rate of 6.3 bolivars to the u.s. dollar to re-measure the assets and liabilities of our venezuelan subsidiaries for u.s. gaap financial statement presentation as of december 31, 2013. as a result of the changes in the exchange rates, we recognized $13 million of net losses for the year ended december 31, 2013 due to the remeasurement of our venezuelan subsidiaries financial statements and the impact due to the settlement of bolivar-denominated transactions. net losses on remeasurement were not material in 2012 and 2011. on march 18, 2013, the venezuelan government announced the creation of an alternative foreign currency mechanism called the supplementary foreign currency administration system, known as the sicad. during december 2013, the venezuelan government issued a new rule allowing the central bank to publish the average sicad rate (previously it was prohibited by law to publish any rate different from the official exchange rate) which was 11.3 bolivars per u.s. dollar. as stated above, at december 31, 2013 we re-measured our venezuelan subsidiaries financial statements using the official exchange rate of 6.3 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. however, we will continue to evaluate each reporting period the appropriate exchange rate to re-measure our financial statements based on the facts and circumstances at that time. for the year ended december 31, 2013, less than 1% of our consolidated net sales and less than 5% of consolidated operating profit were derived from our businesses in venezuela. as of december 31, 2013, we had net assets of $54 million in venezuela, which primarily consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $47 million. also, as of december 31, 2013, our venezuelan subsidiaries had a negative cumulative translation adjustment balance of $46 million. foreign currency forward contracts we use foreign currency forward contracts to fix the amounts payable or receivable on some transactions denominated in foreign currencies. a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates at december 31, 2013 would have caused us to pay approximately $108 million to terminate these contracts. based on our overall foreign exchange exposure, we estimate this change would not materially affect our financial position and liquidity. the effect on our results of operations would be substantially offset by the impact of the hedged items. our foreign currency forward contracts are described in note 13, derivatives and hedging activities, which is contained in part ii, item 8, and in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources derivative financial instruments foreign currency forward contracts, contained in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k, which information is incorporated herein by reference. we may use other derivative instruments from time to time, such as foreign exchange options to manage exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rate and currency swaps related to certain financing transactions. these instruments can potentially limit foreign exchange exposure and limit or adjust interest rate exposure by swapping borrowings denominated in one currency for borrowings denominated in another currency. at december 31, 2013, we had no foreign exchange options or interest rate and currency swap agreements outstanding. outstanding debt our outstanding debt is generally denominated in the functional currency of the borrower. we believe that this enables us to better match operating cash flows with debt service requirements and to better match the currency of assets and liabilities. the amount of outstanding debt denominated in a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar was $398 million at december 31, 2013 and $429 million at december 31, 2012. 71 table of contents customer credit we are exposed to credit risk from our customers. in the normal course of business we extend credit to our customers if they satisfy pre-defined credit criteria. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the failure of our customers to make required payments. an additional allowance may be required if the financial condition of our customers deteriorates. the allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that management assesses to be appropriate to absorb estimated losses in the accounts receivable portfolio. our customers may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. our provision for bad debt expense was $12 million in 2013, $14 million in 2012 and $9 million in 2011. the allowance for doubtful accounts was $31 million at december 31, 2013 and $26 million at december 31, 2012. pensions recent market conditions have resulted in an unusually high degree of volatility and increased risks and short-term liquidity concerns associated with some of the plan assets held by our defined benefit pension plans, which have impacted the performance of some of the plan assets. based upon the annual valuation of our defined benefit pension plans at december 31, 2013, we expect our net periodic benefit costs to be approximately $15 million in 2014. see note 15, profit sharing, retirement savings plans and defined benefit pension plans, for further details on our defined benefit pension plans. commodities we use various commodity raw materials such as plastic resins and other chemicals and energy products such as electric power and natural gas in conjunction with our manufacturing processes. generally, we acquire these components at market prices in the region in which they will be used and do not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. moreover, we seek to maintain appropriate levels of commodity raw material inventories thus minimizing the expense and risks of carrying excess inventories. we do not typically purchase substantial quantities in advance of production requirements. as a result, we are exposed to market risks related to changes in commodity prices of these components. 72 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors introduction the risks described below should be carefully considered before making an investment decision. these are the most significant risk factors, but they are not the only risk factors that should be considered in making an investment decision. this form 10-k also contains and may incorporate by reference forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. see the cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements, in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. the trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks, and investors in our securities may lose all or part of their investment. uncertain global economic conditions have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. uncertain global economic conditions have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business in the form of lower net sales due to weakened demand, unfavorable changes in product price/mix, or lower profit margins. for example, global economic downturns have adversely impacted some of our end-users and customers, such as food processors, distributors, supermarket retailers, hotels, restaurants, retail establishments, other retailers, business service contractors and e-commerce and mail order fulfillment firms, and other end-users that are particularly sensitive to business and consumer spending. during economic downturns or recessions, there can be a heightened competition for sales and increased pressure to reduce selling prices as our customers may reduce their volume of purchases from us. if we lose significant sales volume or reduce selling prices significantly, then there could be a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations, profitability and cash flows. also, reduced availability of credit may adversely affect the ability of some of our customers and suppliers to obtain funds for operations and capital expenditures. this could negatively impact our ability to obtain necessary supplies as well as our sales of materials and equipment to affected customers. this also could result in reduced or delayed collections of outstanding accounts receivable. the global nature of our operations exposes us to numerous risks that could materially adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we operate in 62 countries, and our products are distributed in those countries as well as in other parts of the world. a large portion of our manufacturing operations are located outside of the u.s. and a majority of our net sales are generated outside of the u.s. operations outside of the u.s., particularly operations in developing regions, are subject to various risks that may not be present or as significant for our u.s. operations. economic uncertainty in some of the geographic regions in which we operate, including developing regions, could result in the disruption of commerce and negatively impact cash flows from our operations in those areas. risks inherent in our international operations include: foreign currency exchange controls and tax rates; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including devaluations; the potential for changes in regional and local economic conditions, including local inflationary pressures; restrictive governmental actions such as those on transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection matters, including antidumping duties, tariffs, embargoes and prohibitions or restrictions on acquisitions or joint ventures; changes in laws and regulations, including the laws and policies of the u.s. affecting trade and foreign investment; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; variations in protection of intellectual property and other legal rights; more expansive legal rights of foreign unions or works councils; changes in labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; import and export delays caused, for example, by an extended strike at the port of entry, could cause a delay in our supply chain operations; social plans that prohibit or increase the cost of certain restructuring actions; 13 the potential for nationalization of enterprises or facilities; and unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against u.s. or other interests. in addition, there are potential tax inefficiencies and tax costs in repatriating funds from our non-u.s. subsidiaries. these and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. political and economic instability and risk of government actions affecting our business and our customers or suppliers may adversely impact our business, results of operations and cash flows. we are exposed to risks inherent in doing business in each of the countries or regions in which we or our customers or suppliers operate including: civil unrest, acts of terrorism, sabotage, epidemics, force majeure, war or other armed conflict and related government actions, including sanctions/embargoes, the deprivation of contract rights, the inability to obtain or retain licenses required by us to operate our plants or import or export our goods or raw materials, the expropriation or nationalization of our assets, and restrictions on travel, payments or the movement of funds. in particular, if additional restrictions on trade with russia were adopted by the european union or the u.s., and were applicable to our products, we could lose sales and experience lower growth rates in the future. although the settlement agreement (as defined in note 17, commitments and contingencies ) has been implemented and we have been released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against us arising from a 1998 transaction with grace (as defined below), if the courts were to refuse to enforce the injunctions or releases contained in the plan (as defined below) and the settlement agreement with respect to any claims and if grace were unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us for such claims, then we could be required to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we are also a defendant in a number of asbestos-related actions in canada arising from grace's activities in canada prior to the 1998 transaction. on march 31, 1998, sealed air completed a multi-step transaction (the cryovac transaction ) involving w.r. grace &amp; co. ( grace ) which brought the cryovac packaging business and the former sealed air's business under the common ownership of the company. as part of that transaction, grace and its subsidiaries retained all liabilities arising out of their operations before the cryovac transaction (including asbestos-related liabilities), other than liabilities relating to cryovac's operations, and agreed to indemnify the company with respect to such retained liabilities. since the beginning of 2000, we have been served with a number of lawsuits alleging that, as a result of the cryovac transaction, we are responsible for alleged asbestos liabilities of grace and its subsidiaries. while they vary, these suits all appear to allege that the transfer of the cryovac business was a fraudulent transfer or gave rise to successor liability. on april 2, 2001, grace and a number of its subsidiaries filed petitions for reorganization under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code in the u.s. bankruptcy court for the district of delaware (the bankruptcy court ). in connection with grace's chapter 11 case, the bankruptcy court issued orders dated may 3, 2001 and january 22, 2002, staying all asbestos actions against the company (the preliminary injunction ). however, the official committees appointed to represent asbestos claimants in grace's chapter 11 case (the committees ) received the court's permission to pursue fraudulent transfer and other claims against the company and its subsidiary cryovac, inc. based upon the cryovac transaction. this proceeding was brought in the u.s. district court for the district of delaware (the district court ) (adv. no. 02-02210). on november 27, 2002, we reached an agreement in principle with the committees to resolve all current and future asbestos-related claims made against us and our affiliates in connection with the cryovac transaction. the settlement agreement provided for the resolution of the fraudulent transfer claims and successor liability claims, as well as indemnification claims by fresenius medical care holdings, inc. and affiliated companies in connection with the cryovac transaction. the parties to the agreement in principle signed the definitive settlement agreement as of november 10, 2003 consistent with the terms of the agreement in principle. on june 27, 2005, the bankruptcy court signed an order approving the settlement agreement. although grace is not a party to the settlement agreement, under the terms of the order, grace is directed to comply with the settlement agreement subject to limited exceptions. on september 19, 2008, grace, the official committee of asbestos personal injury claimants, the asbestos pi future claimants' representative, and the official committee of equity security holders filed, as co-proponents, a plan of reorganization (as filed and amended from time to time, the plan ) and several exhibits and associated documents, including a disclosure statement, with the bankruptcy court. the plan provides for the establishment of two asbestos trusts under section 524(g) of the united states bankruptcy code to which present and future asbestos-related personal injury and property damage claims are channeled. the plan incorporates the settlement agreement, including our payment of amounts contemplated by the settlement agreement and the releases and injunctions contemplated by the settlement agreement. 14 on february 3, 2014 (the effective date ), the plan implementing the settlement agreement became effective with grace emerging from bankruptcy. in accordance with the plan and the settlement agreement, on the effective date, cryovac, inc. made aggregate cash payments in the amount of $929.7 million to the wrg asbestos pi trust (the pi trust ) and the wrg asbestos pd trust (the pd trust ) and transferred 18 million shares of sealed air common stock to the pi trust, in each case reflecting adjustments made in accordance with the settlement agreement. under the plan, the preliminary injunction remained in place through the effective date and, on the effective date, the plan and settlement agreement injunctions and releases with respect to asbestos claims and certain other claims became effective. following the effective date, the bankruptcy court issued an order dismissing the proceedings pursuant to which the preliminary injunction was issued. the plan further provides for the channeling of existing and future asbestos claims to the pi trust or the pd trust, as applicable. in addition, under the plan and the settlement agreement, grace is required to indemnify us with respect to asbestos and certain other liabilities. notwithstanding the foregoing, and although we believe the possibility to be remote, if any courts were to refuse to enforce the injunctions or releases contained in the plan and the settlement agreement with respect to any claims, and if, in addition, grace were unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us for such claims, then we could be required to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. since november 2004, the company and specified subsidiaries have been named as defendants in a number of cases, including a number of putative class actions, brought in canada as a result of grace's alleged marketing, manufacturing or distributing of asbestos or asbestos containing products in canada prior to the cryovac transaction in 1998. grace has agreed to defend and indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases. a global settlement of these canadian claims to be funded by grace has been approved by the canadian court, and the plan provides for payment of these claims. we do not have any positive obligations under the canadian settlement, but we are a beneficiary of the release of claims. the release in favor of the grace parties (including us) became operative upon the effective date of a plan of reorganization in grace's united states chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding. as filed, the plan contemplates that the claims released under the canadian settlement will be subject to injunctions under section 524(g) of the bankruptcy code. as indicated above, the bankruptcy court entered the bankruptcy court confirmation order on january 31, 2011 and the clarifying order on february 15, 2011 and the district court entered the original district court confirmation order on january 30, 2012 and the amended district court confirmation order on june 11, 2012. the canadian court issued an order on april 8, 2011 recognizing and giving full effect to the bankruptcy court's confirmation order in all provinces and territories of canada in accordance with the bankruptcy court confirmation order's terms. as described above, the plan became effective on february 3, 2014. in accordance with an order of the canadian court, on the effective date the actions became permanently stayed until they are amended to remove the grace parties as named defendants. two actions were dismissed by the manitoba court as against the grace parties on february 19, 2014 and it is anticipated that the remaining actions will now also be dismissed. notwithstanding the foregoing, and although we believe the possibility to be remote, if the canadian courts refuse to enforce the final plan of reorganization in the canadian courts, and if in addition grace is unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases, then we could be required to pay substantial damages, which we cannot estimate at this time and which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. for further information concerning these matters, see note 17, commitments and contingencies. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. we may not be able to affect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities, the indentures that govern our senior notes and the agreements covering our accounts receivable securitization programs restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. 15 in addition, we conduct a substantial portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, certain of which are not guarantors of our indebtedness. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. unless they are guarantors of our indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. while the indenture governing certain of our senior notes, these notes and the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities limit the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to qualifications and exceptions. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. if we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could terminate their commitments to loan money, the lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. the terms of our credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities and accounts receivable securitization programs and the indentures governing our senior notes restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. the indentures governing our senior notes and the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities and accounts receivable securitization programs contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to: incur additional indebtedness; pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; make loans and investments; sell assets; incur liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; alter the businesses we conduct; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. in addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit agreement governing our senior credit facilities require us to maintain a specified net leverage ratio. our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control. a breach of the covenants under the indenture governing our senior notes or under the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. in addition, an event of default under the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities would permit the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under those facilities. furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our senior secured credit facilities, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. in the event our lenders or note holders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. as a result of these restrictions, we may be: limited in how we conduct our business; unable to respond to changing market conditions; 16 unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns or to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due; or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. in addition, amounts available under our accounts receivable securitization programs can be impacted by a number of factors, including but not limited to our credit ratings, accounts receivable balances, the creditworthiness of our customers and our receivables collection experience. our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. if interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. as of december 31, 2014, we had $1.313 billion of borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities at variable interest rates. a 1/8% increase or decrease in the assumed interest rates on the senior secured credit facilities would result in a $1.6 million increase or a $1.6 million decrease in annual interest expense. in the future, we may enter into interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility. however, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. raw material pricing, availability and allocation by suppliers as well as energy-related costs may negatively impact our results of operations, including our profit margins. we use petrochemical-based raw materials to manufacture many of our products. the prices for these raw materials are cyclical, and increases in market demand or fluctuations in the global trade for petrochemical- based raw materials and energy could increase our costs. in addition, the prices of many of the other key raw materials used in our businesses, such as caustic soda, solvents, waxes, phosphates, surfactants, polymers and resins, chelates and fragrances, are cyclical based on numerous supply and demand factors that are beyond our control. if we are unable to minimize the effects of increased raw material costs through sourcing, pricing or other actions, our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we also have some sole-source suppliers, and the lack of availability of supplies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers and suppliers of other raw materials in the future. these factors could lead to increased prices for our raw materials, curtailment of supplies and allocation of raw materials by our suppliers, which could reduce revenues and profit margins and harm relations with our customers and which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. unfavorable consumer responses to price increases could have a material adverse impact on our sales and earnings. from time to time, and especially in periods of rising raw material costs, we increase the prices of our products. significant price increases could impact our earnings depending on, among other factors, the pricing by competitors of similar products and the response by the customers to higher prices. such price increases may result in lower volume of sales and a subsequent decrease in gross margin and adversely impact earnings. the full realization of our deferred tax assets may be affected by a number of factors, including our earnings in the u.s. we have deferred tax assets including u.s. and foreign net operating loss carry forwards and investment tax allowances, foreign tax credits, accruals not yet deductible for tax purposes, employee benefit items and other items. we have established valuation allowances to reduce those deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. our ability to utilize these deferred tax assets depends in part upon our ability to generate future taxable income during the periods in which these temporary differences reverse or our ability to carryback any losses created by the deduction of these temporary differences. we expect to realize these assets over an extended period. if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in the u.s. and certain foreign jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. 17 our largest deferred tax asset is our net operating loss carry forwards and most of this asset relates to our u.s. net operating loss. the benefit from the amount carried forward may depend upon, among other factors, our anticipated future earnings in the u.s. a reduction in our anticipated u.s. earnings could result in a significant increase in our effective tax rate and could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in the periods in which any such condition occurs. in addition, changes in statutory tax rates or other legislation or regulation may change our deferred tax assets or liability balances, with either favorable or unfavorable impacts on our effective tax rate. we may not achieve all of the expected benefits from our restructuring programs. we have implemented a number of restructuring programs in the last few years, including our fusion program, earnings quality improvement program (eqip) and integration and optimization program (iop). these programs include various cost savings and reorganization initiatives, including the relocation of our corporate headquarters to charlotte, north carolina, the consolidation of certain facilities and the reduction of headcount. we have made certain assumptions in estimating the anticipated synergies we expect to achieve under such programs, which include the estimated savings from the elimination of certain headcount and the consolidation of facilities. these assumptions may turn out to be incorrect due to a variety of factors. in addition, our ability to realize the expected benefits from these programs is subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unsuccessful in implementing these programs or if we do not achieve our expected results, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected or our business operations could be disrupted. the effects of animal and food-related health issues, such as porcine epidemic diarrhea or ped , bovine spongiform encephalopathy, also known as mad cow disease, foot-and-mouth disease, avian influenza or bird-flu , as well as other health issues affecting the food industry, may lead to decreased revenues. we manufacture and sell food packaging products, among other products. various health issues affecting the food industry have in the past and may in the future have a negative effect on the sales of food packaging products. in recent years, occasional cases of ped and mad cow disease have been confirmed and incidents of bird-flu have surfaced in various countries. outbreaks of animal diseases may lead governments to restrict exports and imports of potentially affected animals and food products, leading to decreased demand for our products and possibly also to the culling or slaughter of significant numbers of the animal population otherwise intended for food supply. also, consumers may change their eating habits as a result of perceived problems with certain types of food. these factors may lead to reduced sales of food packaging products, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. risks related to implementation of our new global enterprise resource planning system. we are currently engaged in a multi-year process of conforming the majority of our operations onto one global enterprise resource planning system ( erp ). the erp is designed to improve the efficiency of our supply chain and financial transaction processes, accurately maintain our books and records, and provide information important to the operation of the business to our management team. the erp will continue to require significant investment of human and financial resources, and we may experience significant delays, increased costs and other difficulties as a result. any significant disruption or deficiency in the design and implementation of the erp could adversely affect our ability to fulfill and invoice customer orders, apply cash receipts, place purchase orders with suppliers, and make cash disbursements, and could negatively impact data processing and electronic communications among business locations, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we also face the challenge of supporting our older systems and implementing necessary upgrades to those systems while we implement the new erp system. while we have invested significant resources in planning and project management, significant implementation issues may arise. demand for our products could be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences. our sales depend heavily on the volumes of sales by our customers in the food processing and food service industries. consumer preferences for food and packaging formats of prepackaged food can influence our sales, as can consumer preferences for fresh and unpackaged foods. changes in consumer behavior, including changes in consumer preferences driven by various health-related concerns and perceptions, could negatively impact demand for our products. the consolidation of customers may adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. customers in the food service, food and beverage processing, building care, lodging, industrial distribution and healthcare sectors have been consolidating in recent years, and we believe this trend may continue. such consolidation could have an adverse impact on the pricing of our products and services and our ability to retain customers, which could in turn adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 18 we experience competition in the markets for our products and services and in the geographic areas in which we operate. our packaging products compete with similar products made by other manufacturers and with a number of other types of materials or products. we compete on the basis of performance characteristics of our products, as well as service, price and innovations in technology. a number of competing domestic and foreign companies are well-established. the market for our hygiene products is highly competitive. our hygiene products businesses face significant competition from global, national, regional and local companies within some or all of our product lines in each sector that we serve. barriers to entry and expansion in the institutional and industrial cleaning, sanitation and hygiene industry are low. our inability to maintain a competitive advantage could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes for our products. additionally, we may not successfully implement our pricing actions. these factors may have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. concerns about greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions and climate change and the resulting governmental and market responses to these issues could increase costs that we incur and could otherwise affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives have been enacted and proposed in response to concerns about ghg emissions and climate change. we are a manufacturing entity that utilizes petrochemical-based raw materials to produce many of our products, including plastic packaging materials. increased environmental legislation or regulation could result in higher costs for us in the form of higher raw materials and freight and energy costs. we could also incur additional compliance costs for monitoring and reporting emissions and for maintaining permits. it is also possible that certain materials might cease to be permitted to be used in our processes. disruption and volatility of the financial and credit markets could affect our external liquidity sources. our principal sources of liquidity are accumulated cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flow from operations and amounts available under our lines of credit, including our senior secured credit facilities and our accounts receivable securitization programs. we may be unable to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our senior notes, our accounts receivable securitization programs and our senior secured credit facilities, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. additionally, conditions in financial markets could affect financial institutions with which we have relationships and could result in adverse effects on our ability to utilize fully our committed borrowing facilities. for example, a lender under the senior secured credit facilities may be unwilling or unable to fund a borrowing request, and we may not be able to replace such lender. strengthening of the u.s. dollar and other foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could materially impact our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. approximately 65% of our net sales in 2014 were generated outside the united states. we translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currency into u.s. dollars for our consolidated financial statements. during periods of a strengthening u.s. dollar, our reported international sales and net earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer u.s. dollars. also, while we often produce in the same geographic markets as our products are sold, expenses are more concentrated in the u.s. than sales, so that in a time of strengthening of the u.s. dollar, our profit margins could be reduced. while we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency exposures, this does not insulate us completely from foreign currency effects and exposes us to counterparty credit risk for non-performance. see note 12, derivatives and hedging activities. we have recognized foreign exchange gains and losses related to the currency devaluations in venezuela and its designation as a highly inflationary economy under u.s. gaap. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign exchange rates venezuela. in all jurisdictions in which we operate, we are also subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions. these laws and regulations may limit our ability to repatriate cash as dividends or otherwise to the u.s. and may limit our ability to convert foreign currency cash flows into u.s. dollars. 19 new and stricter legislation and regulations may affect our business and consolidated financial condition and results of operations. increased legislative and regulatory activity and burdens, and a more stringent manner in which they are applied (particularly in the u.s.), could significantly impact our business and the economy as a whole. this includes, among other things, the possible taxation under u.s. law of certain income from foreign operations, compliance costs and enforcement under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank act), and costs associated with complying with the patient protection and affordable care act of 2010 and the regulations promulgated thereunder. for example, under section 1502 of the dodd-frank act, the sec has adopted additional disclosure requirements related to the source of certain conflict minerals for issuers for which such conflict minerals are necessary to the functionality or product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by that issuer. the metals covered by the rules include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, commonly referred to as 3tg. our suppliers may use some or all of these materials in their production processes. the sec's rules require us to perform due diligence on our suppliers. global supply chains can have multiple layers, thus the costs of complying with these requirements could be substantial. these requirements may also reduce the number of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. compliance costs and the unavailability of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. as another example, the affordable care act (the aca ), which was adopted in 2010 and is being phased in over several years, significantly affects the provision of both healthcare services and benefits in the u.s.; the aca may impact our cost of providing our employees and retirees with health insurance and/or benefits, and may also impact various other aspects of our business. we provide benefits to our employees which are competitive within the industries in which we operate. the aca did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations in 2014, 2013 or 2012; however, we are continuing to assess the impact of the aca on our healthcare benefit costs. the regulatory environment is still developing, and the potential exists for future legislation and regulations to be adopted. these developments, as well as the increasingly strict regulatory environment, may also adversely affect the customers to which, and the markets into which, we sell our products, and increase our costs and otherwise negatively affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations, including in ways that cannot yet be foreseen. our annual effective income tax rate can change materially as a result of changes in our mix of u.s. and foreign earnings and other factors, including changes in tax laws and changes made by regulatory authorities. our overall effective income tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of total earnings before tax. however, income tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global basis but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis. losses in one jurisdiction may not be used to offset profits in other jurisdictions and may cause an increase in our tax rate. income tax provision changes in statutory tax rates and laws, as well as ongoing audits by domestic and international authorities, could affect the amount of income taxes and other taxes paid by us. for example, legislative proposals to change u.s. taxation of non-u.s. earnings could increase our effective tax rate. also, changes in the mix of earnings (or losses) between jurisdictions and assumptions used in the calculation of income taxes, among other factors, could have a significant effect on our overall effective income tax rate. in addition, our effective tax rate would increase if we were unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if we were otherwise required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. we are subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. as a result, any adverse development in the tax laws of any of these jurisdictions or any disagreement with our tax positions could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to taxation in, and to the tax laws and regulations of, multiple jurisdictions as a result of the international scope of our operations and our corporate and financing structure. we are also subject to transfer pricing laws with respect to our intercompany transactions, including those relating to the flow of funds among our companies. adverse developments in these laws or regulations, or any change in position regarding the application, administration or interpretation thereof, in any applicable jurisdiction, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of our operations. in addition, the tax authorities in any applicable jurisdiction, including the u.s., may disagree with the positions we have taken or intend to take regarding the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions. if any applicable tax authorities, including u.s. tax authorities, were to successfully challenge the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of our operations. 20 our performance and prospects for future growth could be adversely affected if new products do not meet sales or margin expectations. our competitive advantage is due in part to our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the development and introduction cycle of new products can be lengthy and involve high levels of investment. new products may not meet sales or margin expectations due to many factors, including our inability to (i) accurately predict demand, end-user preferences and evolving industry standards; (ii) resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner; or (iii) achieve manufacturing efficiencies. a major loss of or disruption in our manufacturing and distribution operations or our information systems and telecommunication resources could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we experienced a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or other severe weather event, or a casualty loss from an event such as a fire or flood, at one of our larger strategic facilities or if such event affected a key supplier, our supply chain or our information systems and telecommunication resources, then there could be a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on internal and third party information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. in particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for fulfilling and invoicing customer orders, applying cash receipts, and placing purchase orders with suppliers, making cash disbursements, and conducting digital marketing activities, data processing and electronic communications among business locations. we also depend on telecommunication systems for communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. future system disruptions, security breaches or shutdowns could significantly disrupt our operations or result in lost or misappropriated information and may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we recorded a significant amount of additional goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets as a result of the acquisition of diversey, and we may never realize the full carrying value of these assets. as a result of the acquisition of diversey, we recorded a significant amount of additional goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including customer relationships, trademarks and developed technologies. we test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for possible impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. amortizable intangible assets are periodically reviewed for possible impairment whenever there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. impairment may result from, among other things, (i) a decrease in our expected net earnings; (ii) adverse equity market conditions; (iii) a decline in current market multiples; (iv) a decline in our common stock price; (v) a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climates; (vi) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; (vii) heightened competition; (viii) strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions; or (ix) a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of. in the event that we determine that events or circumstances exist that indicate that the carrying value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, we might have to recognize a non-cash impairment of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we recorded impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets in 2012. see note 7, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, for further discussion. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial results or harm our reputation or the value of our brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of our products arise in the ordinary course of our business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm our reputation in the marketplace or adversely impact the value of our brands or our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. we could also be required to recall possibly defective products, or voluntarily do so, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims could be excluded or exceed coverage limits under the terms of our insurance policies or could result in increased costs for such coverage. 21 the relationship with s.c. johnson &amp; son, inc. ( scj ) is important to our diversey care segment, and any damage to this relationship could have a material adverse effect on this segment. diversey is party to various agreements with scj under which it is granted a license in specified territories to sell certain scj products and use specified trade names owned by scj in the institutional and industrial channels of trade and, subject to certain limitations, in specified channels of trade in which both our diversey care segment and scj's consumer business operate, which expires within the next few years. although the term of this agreement may be extended, it is uncertain that the parties will agree to do so. sales of these scj products have historically been significant to our diversey care segment. if we default under our agreements with scj and the agreements are terminated, scj fails to perform its obligations under these agreements, or our relationship with scj is otherwise damaged or severed, this could have a material adverse effect on our diversey care segment, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. the relationship with unilever plc ( unilever ) is important to our diversey care segment and any damage to this relationship could have a material adverse effect on this segment. diversey is a party to various agreements with unilever under which it is granted a license to produce and sell professional size packs of unilever's consumer brand cleaning products in the institutional and industrial channels of trade, which expires within the next few years (with the exception of a sub-set of the uk business). although the term of this agreement may be extended, it is uncertain that the parties will agree to do so. in four countries (the united kingdom, ireland, portugal and brazil), the diversey subsidiaries operate under an agency agreement with unilever. in addition, diversey also holds licenses to use some trademarks and technology of unilever in the market for institutional and industrial cleaning, sanitation and hygiene products and related services. if we default under our agreements with unilever and the agreements are terminated, unilever fails to perform its obligations under these agreements, or our relationship with unilever is otherwise damaged or severed, this could have a material adverse effect on our diversey care segment, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we are unable to retain key employees and other personnel, our consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other key personnel. their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us, and we need their expertise to execute our business strategies. if any of our senior management or other key personnel cease to work for us and we are unable to successfully replace any departing senior management or key personnel, our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we could experience disruptions in operations and/or increased labor costs. in europe and latin america, most of our employees are represented by either labor unions or workers councils and are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are generally renewable on an annual basis. as is the case with any negotiation, we may not be able to negotiate acceptable new collective bargaining agreements, which could result in strikes or work stoppages by affected workers. renewal of collective bargaining agreements could also result in higher wages or benefits paid to union members. a disruption in operations or higher ongoing labor costs could materially affect our business. we are subject to a variety of environmental and product registration laws that expose us to potential financial liability and increased operating costs. our operations are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the manufacture of our products, the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil and water and the use, handling, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. many jurisdictions require us to have operating permits for our production and warehouse facilities and operations. any failure to obtain, maintain or comply with the terms of these permits could result in fines or penalties, revocation or nonrenewal of our permits, or orders to cease certain operations, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we generate, use and dispose of hazardous materials in our manufacturing processes. in the event our operations result in the release of hazardous materials into the environment, we may become responsible for the costs associated with the investigation and remediation of sites at which we have released pollutants, or sites where we have disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes, even if we fully complied with environmental laws at the time of disposal. we have been, and may continue to be, responsible for the cost of remediation at some locations. 22 some jurisdictions have laws and regulations that govern the registration and labeling of some of our products. we expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our european operations as a result of a european union ( eu ) directive registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals (eu directive no. 2006/1907) enacted on december 18, 2006. the directive imposes several requirements related to the identification and management of risks related to chemical substances manufactured or marketed in europe. the eu has also recently enacted a classification, packaging and labeling regulation. other jurisdictions may impose similar requirements. we cannot predict with reasonable certainty the future cost to us of environmental compliance, product registration, or environmental remediation. environmental laws have become more stringent and complex over time. our environmental costs and operating expenses will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the scope and timing of the effectiveness of requirements in these various jurisdictions. as a result of such requirements, we may be subject to an increased regulatory burden, and we expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our operations. increased compliance costs, increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, or our inability to market some of our products in certain jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. the legacy diversey business had tendered various environmental indemnification claims to unilever pursuant to the unilever acquisition agreement (as defined below). under a previous acquisition agreement between the legacy diversey business and unilever (the unilever acquisition agreement ), unilever made warranties to diversey with respect to the facilities formerly owned by unilever. in addition, unilever agreed to indemnify diversey for specified types of environmental liabilities if the aggregate amount of damages meets various dollar thresholds, subject to a cap of $250 million in the aggregate. diversey was required to notify unilever of any environmental indemnification claims by may 3, 2008. any environmental claims pending after this date, with respect to which diversey has notified unilever, remain subject to indemnification until remediation is completed in accordance with the unilever acquisition agreement. diversey has previously tendered various environmental indemnification claims to unilever in connection with former unilever locations. unilever has not indicated its agreement with diversey's request for indemnification. we may file additional requests for reimbursement in the future in connection with pending indemnification claims. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover any amounts relating to these indemnification claims from unilever. our insurance policies may not cover all operating risks and a casualty loss beyond the limits of our coverage could adversely impact our business. our business is subject to operating hazards and risks relating to handling, storing, transporting and use of the products we sell. we maintain insurance policies in amounts and with coverage and deductibles that we believe are reasonable and prudent. nevertheless, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us from all liabilities and expenses that may arise from claims for personal injury or death or property damage arising in the ordinary course of business, and our current levels of insurance may not be maintained or available in the future at economical prices. if a significant liability claim is brought against us that is not adequately covered by insurance, we may have to pay the claim with our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we are not able to protect our trade secrets or maintain our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property, we may not be able to prevent competitors from developing similar products or from marketing their products in a manner that capitalizes on our trademarks, and this loss of a competitive advantage could decrease our profitability and liquidity. our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. if we were unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property and our significant current or proposed products, this loss of a competitive advantage could result in decreased sales or increased operating costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we rely on trade secrets to maintain our competitive position, including protecting the formulation and manufacturing techniques of many of our products. as such, we have not sought u.s. or international patent protection for some of our principal product formulas and manufacturing processes. accordingly, we may not be able to prevent others from developing products that are similar to or competitive with our products. we own a large number of patents and pending patent applications on our products, aspects thereof, methods of use and/or methods of manufacturing. there is a risk that our patents may not provide meaningful protection and patents may never be issued for our pending patent applications. 23 we own, or have licenses to use, all of the material trademark and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our major products both in the u.s. and in other countries where our products are principally sold. trademark and trade name protection is important to our business. although most of our trademarks are registered in the u.s. and in the foreign countries in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s. the costs required to protect our trademarks and trade names may be substantial. we cannot be certain that we will be able to assert these intellectual property rights successfully in the future or that they will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute the value of our intellectual property in the marketplace. third parties, including competitors, may assert intellectual property infringement or invalidity claims against us that could be upheld. intellectual property litigation, which could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by us, may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or proprietary technology or for us to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of others' proprietary rights. we may not prevail in any such litigation, and if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on reasonable terms or at all. any failure by us to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. cyber risk and the failure to maintain the integrity of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties with which we do business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to an increasing number of information technology vulnerabilities, threats and targeted computer crimes which pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of our networks or systems, could result in the loss of customers and business opportunities, legal liability, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensatory costs, and additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we attempt to mitigate these risks, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced and persistent threats. we also maintain and have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer controls. despite our efforts to protect such sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, our facilities and systems and those of our customers and third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors that could lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our consolidated, financial condition and results of operations. 24 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign exchange rates venezuela. in all jurisdictions in which we operate, we are also subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions. these laws and regulations may limit our ability to repatriate cash as dividends or otherwise to the u.s. and may limit our ability to convert foreign currency cash flows into u.s. dollars. 19 new and stricter legislation and regulations may affect our business and consolidated financial condition and results of operations. increased legislative and regulatory activity and burdens, and a more stringent manner in which they are applied (particularly in the u.s.), could significantly impact our business and the economy as a whole. this includes, among other things, the possible taxation under u.s. law of certain income from foreign operations, compliance costs and enforcement under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank act), and costs associated with complying with the patient protection and affordable care act of 2010 and the regulations promulgated thereunder. for example, under section 1502 of the dodd-frank act, the sec has adopted additional disclosure requirements related to the source of certain conflict minerals for issuers for which such conflict minerals are necessary to the functionality or product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by that issuer. the metals covered by the rules include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, commonly referred to as 3tg. our suppliers may use some or all of these materials in their production processes. the sec's rules require us to perform due diligence on our suppliers. global supply chains can have multiple layers, thus the costs of complying with these requirements could be substantial. these requirements may also reduce the number of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. compliance costs and the unavailability of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. as another example, the affordable care act (the aca ), which was adopted in 2010 and is being phased in over several years, significantly affects the provision of both healthcare services and benefits in the u.s.; the aca may impact our cost of providing our employees and retirees with health insurance and/or benefits, and may also impact various other aspects of our business. we provide benefits to our employees which are competitive within the industries in which we operate. the aca did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations in 2014, 2013 or 2012; however, we are continuing to assess the impact of the aca on our healthcare benefit costs. the regulatory environment is still developing, and the potential exists for future legislation and regulations to be adopted. these developments, as well as the increasingly strict regulatory environment, may also adversely affect the customers to which, and the markets into which, we sell our products, and increase our costs and otherwise negatively affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations, including in ways that cannot yet be foreseen. our annual effective income tax rate can change materially as a result of changes in our mix of u.s. and foreign earnings and other factors, including changes in tax laws and changes made by regulatory authorities. our overall effective income tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of total earnings before tax. however, income tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global basis but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis. losses in one jurisdiction may not be used to offset profits in other jurisdictions and may cause an increase in our tax rate. income tax provision changes in statutory tax rates and laws, as well as ongoing audits by domestic and international authorities, could affect the amount of income taxes and other taxes paid by us. for example, legislative proposals to change u.s. taxation of non-u.s. earnings could increase our effective tax rate. also, changes in the mix of earnings (or losses) between jurisdictions and assumptions used in the calculation of income taxes, among other factors, could have a significant effect on our overall effective income tax rate. in addition, our effective tax rate would increase if we were unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if we were otherwise required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. we are subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. as a result, any adverse development in the tax laws of any of these jurisdictions or any disagreement with our tax positions could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to taxation in, and to the tax laws and regulations of, multiple jurisdictions as a result of the international scope of our operations and our corporate and financing structure. we are also subject to transfer pricing laws with respect to our intercompany transactions, including those relating to the flow of funds among our companies. adverse developments in these laws or regulations, or any change in position regarding the application, administration or interpretation thereof, in any applicable jurisdiction, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of our operations. in addition, the tax authorities in any applicable jurisdiction, including the u.s., may disagree with the positions we have taken or intend to take regarding the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions. if any applicable tax authorities, including u.s. tax authorities, were to successfully challenge the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of our operations. 20 our performance and prospects for future growth could be adversely affected if new products do not meet sales or margin expectations. our competitive advantage is due in part to our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the development and introduction cycle of new products can be lengthy and involve high levels of investment. new products may not meet sales or margin expectations due to many factors, including our inability to (i) accurately predict demand, end-user preferences and evolving industry standards; (ii) resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner; or (iii) achieve manufacturing efficiencies. a major loss of or disruption in our manufacturing and distribution operations or our information systems and telecommunication resources could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we experienced a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or other severe weather event, or a casualty loss from an event such as a fire or flood, at one of our larger strategic facilities or if such event affected a key supplier, our supply chain or our information systems and telecommunication resources, then there could be a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on internal and third party information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. in particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for fulfilling and invoicing customer orders, applying cash receipts, and placing purchase orders with suppliers, making cash disbursements, and conducting digital marketing activities, data processing and electronic communications among business locations. we also depend on telecommunication systems for communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. future system disruptions, security breaches or shutdowns could significantly disrupt our operations or result in lost or misappropriated information and may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we recorded a significant amount of additional goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets as a result of the acquisition of diversey, and we may never realize the full carrying value of these assets. as a result of the acquisition of diversey, we recorded a significant amount of additional goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including customer relationships, trademarks and developed technologies. we test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for possible impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. amortizable intangible assets are periodically reviewed for possible impairment whenever there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. impairment may result from, among other things, (i) a decrease in our expected net earnings; (ii) adverse equity market conditions; (iii) a decline in current market multiples; (iv) a decline in our common stock price; (v) a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climates; (vi) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; (vii) heightened competition; (viii) strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions; or (ix) a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of. in the event that we determine that events or circumstances exist that indicate that the carrying value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, we might have to recognize a non-cash impairment of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we recorded impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets in 2012. see note 7, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, for further discussion. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial results or harm our reputation or the value of our brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of our products arise in the ordinary course of our business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm our reputation in the marketplace or adversely impact the value of our brands or our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. we could also be required to recall possibly defective products, or voluntarily do so, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims could be excluded or exceed coverage limits under the terms of our insurance policies or could result in increased costs for such coverage. 21 the relationship with s.c. johnson &amp; son, inc. ( scj ) is important to our diversey care segment, and any damage to this relationship could have a material adverse effect on this segment. diversey is party to various agreements with scj under which it is granted a license in specified territories to sell certain scj products and use specified trade names owned by scj in the institutional and industrial channels of trade and, subject to certain limitations, in specified channels of trade in which both our diversey care segment and scj's consumer business operate, which expires within the next few years. although the term of this agreement may be extended, it is uncertain that the parties will agree to do so. sales of these scj products have historically been significant to our diversey care segment. if we default under our agreements with scj and the agreements are terminated, scj fails to perform its obligations under these agreements, or our relationship with scj is otherwise damaged or severed, this could have a material adverse effect on our diversey care segment, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. the relationship with unilever plc ( unilever ) is important to our diversey care segment and any damage to this relationship could have a material adverse effect on this segment. diversey is a party to various agreements with unilever under which it is granted a license to produce and sell professional size packs of unilever's consumer brand cleaning products in the institutional and industrial channels of trade, which expires within the next few years (with the exception of a sub-set of the uk business). although the term of this agreement may be extended, it is uncertain that the parties will agree to do so. in four countries (the united kingdom, ireland, portugal and brazil), the diversey subsidiaries operate under an agency agreement with unilever. in addition, diversey also holds licenses to use some trademarks and technology of unilever in the market for institutional and industrial cleaning, sanitation and hygiene products and related services. if we default under our agreements with unilever and the agreements are terminated, unilever fails to perform its obligations under these agreements, or our relationship with unilever is otherwise damaged or severed, this could have a material adverse effect on our diversey care segment, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we are unable to retain key employees and other personnel, our consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other key personnel. their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us, and we need their expertise to execute our business strategies. if any of our senior management or other key personnel cease to work for us and we are unable to successfully replace any departing senior management or key personnel, our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we could experience disruptions in operations and/or increased labor costs. in europe and latin america, most of our employees are represented by either labor unions or workers councils and are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are generally renewable on an annual basis. as is the case with any negotiation, we may not be able to negotiate acceptable new collective bargaining agreements, which could result in strikes or work stoppages by affected workers. renewal of collective bargaining agreements could also result in higher wages or benefits paid to union members. a disruption in operations or higher ongoing labor costs could materially affect our business. we are subject to a variety of environmental and product registration laws that expose us to potential financial liability and increased operating costs. our operations are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the manufacture of our products, the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil and water and the use, handling, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. many jurisdictions require us to have operating permits for our production and warehouse facilities and operations. any failure to obtain, maintain or comply with the terms of these permits could result in fines or penalties, revocation or nonrenewal of our permits, or orders to cease certain operations, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we generate, use and dispose of hazardous materials in our manufacturing processes. in the event our operations result in the release of hazardous materials into the environment, we may become responsible for the costs associated with the investigation and remediation of sites at which we have released pollutants, or sites where we have disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes, even if we fully complied with environmental laws at the time of disposal. we have been, and may continue to be, responsible for the cost of remediation at some locations. 22 some jurisdictions have laws and regulations that govern the registration and labeling of some of our products. we expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our european operations as a result of a european union ( eu ) directive registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals (eu directive no. 2006/1907) enacted on december 18, 2006. the directive imposes several requirements related to the identification and management of risks related to chemical substances manufactured or marketed in europe. the eu has also recently enacted a classification, packaging and labeling regulation. other jurisdictions may impose similar requirements. we cannot predict with reasonable certainty the future cost to us of environmental compliance, product registration, or environmental remediation. environmental laws have become more stringent and complex over time. our environmental costs and operating expenses will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the scope and timing of the effectiveness of requirements in these various jurisdictions. as a result of such requirements, we may be subject to an increased regulatory burden, and we expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our operations. increased compliance costs, increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, or our inability to market some of our products in certain jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. the legacy diversey business had tendered various environmental indemnification claims to unilever pursuant to the unilever acquisition agreement (as defined below). under a previous acquisition agreement between the legacy diversey business and unilever (the unilever acquisition agreement ), unilever made warranties to diversey with respect to the facilities formerly owned by unilever. in addition, unilever agreed to indemnify diversey for specified types of environmental liabilities if the aggregate amount of damages meets various dollar thresholds, subject to a cap of $250 million in the aggregate. diversey was required to notify unilever of any environmental indemnification claims by may 3, 2008. any environmental claims pending after this date, with respect to which diversey has notified unilever, remain subject to indemnification until remediation is completed in accordance with the unilever acquisition agreement. diversey has previously tendered various environmental indemnification claims to unilever in connection with former unilever locations. unilever has not indicated its agreement with diversey's request for indemnification. we may file additional requests for reimbursement in the future in connection with pending indemnification claims. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover any amounts relating to these indemnification claims from unilever. our insurance policies may not cover all operating risks and a casualty loss beyond the limits of our coverage could adversely impact our business. our business is subject to operating hazards and risks relating to handling, storing, transporting and use of the products we sell. we maintain insurance policies in amounts and with coverage and deductibles that we believe are reasonable and prudent. nevertheless, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us from all liabilities and expenses that may arise from claims for personal injury or death or property damage arising in the ordinary course of business, and our current levels of insurance may not be maintained or available in the future at economical prices. if a significant liability claim is brought against us that is not adequately covered by insurance, we may have to pay the claim with our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we are not able to protect our trade secrets or maintain our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property, we may not be able to prevent competitors from developing similar products or from marketing their products in a manner that capitalizes on our trademarks, and this loss of a competitive advantage could decrease our profitability and liquidity. our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. if we were unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property and our significant current or proposed products, this loss of a competitive advantage could result in decreased sales or increased operating costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we rely on trade secrets to maintain our competitive position, including protecting the formulation and manufacturing techniques of many of our products. as such, we have not sought u.s. or international patent protection for some of our principal product formulas and manufacturing processes. accordingly, we may not be able to prevent others from developing products that are similar to or competitive with our products. we own a large number of patents and pending patent applications on our products, aspects thereof, methods of use and/or methods of manufacturing. there is a risk that our patents may not provide meaningful protection and patents may never be issued for our pending patent applications. 23 we own, or have licenses to use, all of the material trademark and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our major products both in the u.s. and in other countries where our products are principally sold. trademark and trade name protection is important to our business. although most of our trademarks are registered in the u.s. and in the foreign countries in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s. the costs required to protect our trademarks and trade names may be substantial. we cannot be certain that we will be able to assert these intellectual property rights successfully in the future or that they will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute the value of our intellectual property in the marketplace. third parties, including competitors, may assert intellectual property infringement or invalidity claims against us that could be upheld. intellectual property litigation, which could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by us, may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or proprietary technology or for us to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of others' proprietary rights. we may not prevail in any such litigation, and if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on reasonable terms or at all. any failure by us to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. cyber risk and the failure to maintain the integrity of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties with which we do business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to an increasing number of information technology vulnerabilities, threats and targeted computer crimes which pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of our networks or systems, could result in the loss of customers and business opportunities, legal liability, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensatory costs, and additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we attempt to mitigate these risks, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced and persistent threats. we also maintain and have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer controls. despite our efforts to protect such sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, our facilities and systems and those of our customers and third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors that could lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our consolidated, financial condition and results of operations. 24 item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties we manufacture products in 114 facilities, with 40 of those facilities serving more than one of our business segments and our other category of products. the geographic dispersion of our manufacturing facilities is as follows: geographic region number of manufacturing facilities north america 45 europe 30 latin america 15 asia, middle east, africa and turkey ("amat") 15 japan, australia, new zealand ("janz") 9 total 114 manufacturing facilities by reportable segment and other food care: we produce food care products in 59 manufacturing facilities, of which 15 are in north america, 16 in europe, 11 in latin america, 11 in amat and 6 in janz. diversey care: we produce diversey care products in 18 manufacturing facilities, of which 4 are in north america, 5 in europe, 3 in latin america, 5 in amat and 1 in janz. product care: we produce product care products in 67 manufacturing facilities, of which 30 are in north america, 17 in europe, 7 in latin america, 10 in amat and 3 in janz. other: we produce medical applications products in 3 manufacturing facilities, of which 1 is in north america and 2 are in europe. we produce other products in 3 manufacturing facilities, of which 2 are in north america and 1 is in europe. other property information we own the large majority of our manufacturing facilities. some of these facilities are subject to secured or other financing arrangements. we lease the balance of our manufacturing facilities, which are generally smaller sites. our manufacturing facilities are usually located in general purpose buildings that house our specialized machinery for the manufacture of one or more products. because of the relatively low density of our air cellular, polyethylene foam and protective mailer products, we realize significant freight savings by locating our manufacturing facilities for these products near our customers and distributors. we also occupy facilities containing sales, distribution, technical, warehouse or administrative functions at a number of locations in the u.s. and in many foreign countries. some of these facilities are located on the manufacturing sites that we own and some on those that we lease. stand-alone facilities of these types are generally leased. our global headquarters are currently located in a leased facility in charlotte, north carolina. for a list of those countries outside of the u.s. where we have operations, see global operations above. we believe that our manufacturing, warehouse, office and other facilities are well maintained, suitable for their purposes and adequate for our needs. item 3. legal proceedings the information set forth in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k in note 17, commitments and contingencies, under the caption cryovac transaction commitments and contingencies is incorporated herein by reference. 25 at december 31, 2014, we were a party to, or otherwise involved in, several federal, state and foreign environmental proceedings and private environmental claims for the cleanup of superfund sites under the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act of 1980 and other sites. we may have potential liability for investigation and cleanup of some of these sites. it is our policy to accrue for environmental cleanup costs if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and if we can reasonably estimate an amount or range of costs associated with various alternative remediation strategies, without giving effect to any possible future insurance proceeds. as assessments and cleanups proceed, we review these liabilities periodically and adjust our reserves as additional information becomes available. at december 31, 2014, environmental related reserves were not material to our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. while it is often difficult to estimate potential liabilities and the future impact of environmental matters, based upon the information currently available to us and our experience in dealing with these matters, we believe that our potential future liability with respect to these sites is not material to our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are also involved in various other legal actions incidental to our business. we believe, after consulting with counsel, that the disposition of these other legal proceedings and matters will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. item 4. mine safety disclosures. not applicable. 26 executive officers of the registrant the information appearing in the table below sets forth the current position or positions held by each of our executive officers, the officer's age as of january 31, 2015, the year in which the officer was first elected to the position currently held with us or with the former sealed air corporation, now known as sealed air corporation (us) and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, and the year in which such person was first elected an officer. all of our officers serve at the pleasure of the board of directors. we have employed all officers for more than five years except for mr. chrisman, who was first elected an officer effective august 2014, mr. chammas, who was first elected an officer effective december 16, 2010, mr. finch who was first elected effective may 16, 2013, dr. kadri, who was first elected an officer effective january 1, 2013, ms. lowe, who was first elected an officer effective june 18, 2012, mr. peribere, who was first elected an officer effective september 1, 2012, mr. sagnak, who was first elected an officer effective january 3, 2012 and mr. stiehl who was first elected an officer effective january 1, 2013. prior to being elected as an officer in august 2014, mr. chrisman served in a variety of management positions with the company, including global vice president of cushioning solutions, vice president and general manager of global specialty foams and vice president of customer equipment. mr. chrisman has been an employee of the company for 27 years. before joining the company in november 2010, mr. chammas was the vice president, worldwide supply chain, for the wm. wrigley jr. company, a confectionery company, from october 2008 through october 2010, and prior to that served in management positions of increasing responsibility in supply chain, operations and procurement with the wm. wrigley jr. company from january 2002 until october 2008. prior to joining the company in may 2013, mr. finch was vice president, associate general counsel and chief compliance officer for zimmer holdings, inc., a global medical device company, from october 2009 until may 2013, serving on the company's executive operating committee. prior thereto, he served in management positions of increasing responsibility with zimmer from may 2005 until october 2009. prior to joining zimmer, mr. finch practiced law with the international law firm of fulbright &amp; jaworski llp (now, norton rose fulbright). prior to joining the company in january 2013, dr. kadri was the general manager of the dow advanced materials division, a specialty materials provider in the middle east and africa, and the europe, middle east and africa commercial director for dow water &amp; process solutions, a global leader in sustainable separation and purification technology, from january 2010 until december 2012. dr. kadri joined dow in 2009 as a marketing director for dow coating materials, following the acquisition of rohm and haas, where she served as a marketing director for the construction, coatings and industrial division, since 2007. prior to joining the company in june 2012, ms. lowe was the president of carlisle food service products, a subsidiary of carlisle companies incorporated, a global diversified manufacturing company from august 2011 through june 2012. ms. lowe worked for carlisle companies inc. for over ten years in a number of leadership positions including president of two business units, vice president and chief financial officer, and treasurer. ms. lowe currently serves as a board member of cytec industries, inc. prior to joining the company in september 2012, mr. peribere worked at the dow chemical company ( dow ) from 1977 through august 2012. mr. peribere served in multiple managerial roles with dow, most recently as executive vice president of dow and president and chief executive officer, dow advanced materials, a unit of dow, from 2010 through august 2012. mr. peribere currently serves as a board member of xylem, inc. prior to joining the company in october 2011 in connection with the diversey acquisition, mr. sagnak was regional president-asia pacific, africa, middle east, turkey and the caucasian/asian republics (apat) of diversey since december 2010. prior to that, he held several management positions at diversey from 1995 through 2010 and with unilever from 1990 through 1995. prior to joining the company in january 2013, mr. stiehl was vice president of finance and controller of the aerostructures business unit of united technologies corporation from july 2012 through december 2012. mr. stiehl worked at goodrich corporation from 2006 through 2012. mr. stiehl also served as senior audit manager with deloitte and has worked in various accounting and finance positions for over twenty-five years with increasing levels of responsibilities. 27 there are no family relationships among any of our officers or directors. name and current position age as of january 31, 2015 first elected to current position first elected an officer jerome a. peribere president, chief executive officer and director 60 2013 2012 carol p. lowe senior vice president and chief financial officer 49 2012 2012 emile z. chammas senior vice president 46 2010 2010 kenneth p. chrisman vice president 50 2014 2014 karl r. deily vice president 57 2006 2006 norman d. finch jr. vice president, general counsel and secretary 50 2013 2013 ilham kadri vice president 46 2013 2013 ruth roper vice president 60 2004 2004 yagmar sagnak vice president 48 2012 2012 william g. stiehl chief accounting officer and controller 53 2013 2013 28 part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities market information our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange under the trading symbol see. the table below shows the quarterly high and low closing sales prices of our common stock and cash dividends per share for 2014 and 2013. 2014 high low dividend first quarter 34.65 29.86 0.13 second quarter 34.94 30.36 0.13 third quarter 37.21 31.67 0.13 fourth quarter 43.47 30.99 0.13 2013 high low dividend first quarter 24.28 17.94 0.13 second quarter 24.64 21.15 0.13 third quarter 30.57 24.45 0.13 fourth quarter 34.13 26.56 0.13 as of january 31, 2015, there were approximately 4,795 holders of record of our common stock. dividends our amended credit facility and the senior notes contain covenants that restrict our ability to declare or pay dividends. however, we do not believe these covenants are likely to materially limit the future payment of quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. the following table shows our total cash dividends paid each year since 2007. total cash total cash dividends paid per dividends paid common share (in millions) 2007 $ 64.6 0.40 2008 76.4 0.48 2009 75.7 0.48 2010 79.7 0.50 2011 87.4 0.52 2012 100.9 0.52 2013 102.0 0.52 2014 110.9 0.52 total $ 697.6 on february 17, 2015, our board of directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.13 per common share payable on march 20, 2015 to stockholders of record at the close of business on march 6, 2015. the estimated amount of this dividend payment is $27 million based on 210 million shares of our common stock issued and outstanding as of january 31, 2015. the dividend payments discussed above are recorded as reductions to cash and cash equivalents and retained earnings on our consolidated balance sheets. from time to time, we may consider other means of returning value to our stockholders based on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. there is no guarantee that our board of directors will declare any further dividends. 29 common stock performance comparisons the following graph shows, for the five years ended december 31, 2014, the cumulative total return on an investment of $100 assumed to have been made on december 31, 2009 in our common stock. the graph compares this return ( see ) with that of comparable investments assumed to have been made on the same date in: (a) the standard &amp; poor's 500 stock index ( composite s&amp;p 500 ) and (b) a self-constructed peer group. the peer group includes us and the following companies: agrium inc., air products &amp; chemicals, inc.; ashland inc.; avery dennison corporation; ball corporation; bemis company, inc.; celanese corporation; crown holdings, inc.; eastman chemical company; ecolab inc.; huntsman corporation; meadwestvaco corporation; monsanto company; the mosaic company; owens-illinois, inc.; ppg industries, inc.; praxair, inc.; the sherwin-williams company; and sonoco products co. total return for each assumed investment assumes the reinvestment of all dividends on december 31 of the year in which the dividends were paid. 30 issuer purchases of equity securities the table below sets forth the total number of shares of our common stock, par value $0.10 per share, that we repurchased in each month of the quarter ended december 31, 2014, the average price paid per share and the maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under our publicly announced plans or programs. total number of maximum number of share purchased as shares that may yet be total number of average price announced plans or purchased under the period shares purchased (1) paid per share programs plans or programs (a) (b) (c) balance as of september 30, 2014 11,501,398 october 1, 2014 through october 31, 2014 763,915 $ 33.33 763,915 10,737,483 november 1, 2014 through november 30, 2014 362,283 38.64 362,283 10,375,200 december 1, 2014 through december 31, 2014 277,231 41.36 256,490 10,118,710 total 1,403,429 $ 36.17 1,382,688 10,118,710 (1) we acquired shares by means of (a) share trading plans we entered into with two of our brokers in accordance with rule 10b5-1 of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and pursuant to our publicly announced program (described below), (b) shares withheld from awards under our omnibus incentive plan (the successor plan to our 2005 contingent stock plan) pursuant to the provision thereof that permits tax withholding obligations or other legally required charges to be satisfied by having us withhold shares from an award under that plan and (c) shares reacquired pursuant to the forfeiture provision of our omnibus incentive plan. we report price calculations in column (b) in the table above only for shares purchased as part of our publicly announced program, when applicable, including commissions. for shares withheld for tax withholding obligations or other legally required charges, we withhold shares at a price equal to their fair market value. we do not make payments for shares reacquired by the company pursuant to the forfeiture provision of the omnibus incentive plan as those shares are simply forfeited. shares withheld average withholding forfeitures under for tax obligations price for shares omnibus incentive period and charges in column a plan total (a) (b) (c) (d) october 1, 2014 through october 31, 2014 $ november 1, 2014 through november 30, 2014 december 1, 2014 through december 31, 2014 1,154 34.02 19,587 20,741 total 1,154 19,587 20,741 on august 9, 2007, we announced that our board of directors had approved a share repurchase program authorizing us to repurchase in the aggregate up to 20 million shares of our issued and outstanding common stock (described further under the caption, repurchases of capital stock, in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k). this program has no set expiration date. this program replaced our prior share repurchase program, which we terminated at that time. 31 item 6. selected financial data year ended december 31, (in millions, except share data) 2014 2013 (1)(2) 2012 (1)(2) 2011 (1)(2)(3) 2010 (1) consolidated statements of operations data (4) : net sales $ 7,750.5 $ 7,690.8 $ 7,559.2 $ 5,467.3 $ 4,490.1 gross profit 2,687.6 2,589.9 2,520.5 1,585.5 1,256.3 impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 1,892.3 operating profit (loss) 653.6 604.6 (1,429.5 ) 425.7 538.5 loss on debt redemption (102.5 ) (36.3 ) (36.9 ) (38.5 ) earnings (loss) from continuing operations before income tax provision 267.2 180.2 (1,884.4 ) 194.3 346.9 net earnings (loss) from continuing operations 258.1 95.3 (1,619.0 ) 135.7 258.1 net earnings from discontinued operations 7.6 28.7 16.4 net gain on sale of discontinued operations 22.9 178.9 net earnings (loss) available to common stockholders $ 258.1 $ 125.8 $ (1,411.4 ) $ 152.1 $ 258.1 basic and diluted net earnings (loss) per common share: basic continuing operations $ 1.22 $ 0.49 $ (8.40 ) $ 0.81 $ 1.62 discontinued operations 0.16 1.08 0.10 net earnings (loss) per common share basic $ 1.22 $ 0.65 $ (7.32 ) $ 0.91 $ 1.62 diluted continuing operations $ 1.20 $ 0.44 $ (8.40 ) $ 0.73 $ 1.45 discontinued operations 0.14 1.08 0.09 net earnings (loss) per common share diluted $ 1.20 $ 0.58 $ (7.32 ) $ 0.82 $ 1.45 common stock dividends $ 111.8 $ 102.6 $ 101.4 $ 88.7 $ 80.9 consolidated balance sheets data: cash and cash equivalents $ 322.6 $ 992.4 $ 679.6 $ 703.6 $ 675.6 goodwill 3,005.5 3,114.6 3,151.2 4,168.2 1,945.9 intangible assets, net 872.2 1,016.9 1,131.6 2,027.6 78.0 total assets 8,041.7 9,176.0 9,371.0 11,473.1 5,435.6 settlement agreement and related accrued interest 925.1 876.9 831.2 787.9 long-term debt, less current portion 4,282.5 4,116.4 4,540.8 4,966.7 1,399.2 total stockholders' equity 1,162.8 1,416.3 1,468.5 2,977.7 2,424.0 working capital (current assets less current liabilities) 960.7 758.7 993.6 952.8 614.7 consolidated cash flows data (4) : net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (201.9 ) $ 624.8 $ 394.2 $ 363.1 $ 483.1 net cash used in investing activities (141.5 ) (105.5 ) (114.9 ) (2,365.7 ) (96.9 ) net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (304.1 ) (319.8 ) (585.1 ) 2,016.4 (373.0 ) other financial data: depreciation and amortization $ 266.7 $ 283.4 $ 300.2 $ 182.7 $ 154.7 share-based incentive compensation 54.1 24.1 16.9 25.0 30.6 capital expenditures 153.9 116.0 122.8 121.7 87.6 (1) during the fourth quarter of 2014, we changed the method of valuing our inventories that used the lifo method to the fifo method, so that all of our inventories are now valued at fifo. we applied this change in accounting principle retrospectively. accordingly certain previously reported financial information has been revised. the impact of the change to net earnings is not material. see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies inventories for additional details regarding this accounting policy change. (2) operating results for the rigid medical packaging business were reclassified to discontinued operations in 2013, 2012 and 2011 and related assets and liabilities were reclassified to assets and liabilities held for sale as of december 31, 2012 and 2011. operating results for diversey japan were reclassified to discontinued operations for the periods in 2012 and 2011 beginning october 3, 2011. see note 3, divestitures, for further information about the sale of our rigid medical packaging business in 2013 and the sale of our diversey japan in 2012. results for 2010 have not been revised for the sale of the rigid medical packaging business as the results were not considered material or for the sale of the diversey japan because we acquired diversey on october 3, 2011. 32 (3) includes the financial results of diversey for the period beginning october 3, 2011 (acquisition date). (4) see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, for a discussion of the factors that contributed to our consolidated operating results and our consolidated cash flows for the three years ended december 31, 2014. 33 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the information in this md&amp;a should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes set forth in part ii, item 8, as well as the discussion included in part i, item 1a, risk factors, of this annual report on form 10-k. all amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars are in millions, except per share amounts. on december 6, 2013, we completed the sale of the rigid medical packaging business, and accordingly the operating results were reclassified to discontinued operations, net of tax, on the consolidated statements of operations for 2013 and 2012. on november 14, 2012, we completed the sale of diversey japan, and accordingly the operating results were reclassified to discontinued operations, net of tax, on the consolidated statements of operations for 2012. see note 3, divestitures, for further details. all results and discussion included in this md&amp;a are presented on a continuing operations basis. effective as of january 1, 2014, we changed our segment reporting structure in order to reflect the way management now makes operating decisions and manages the growth and profitability of the business. this change corresponds with management's current approach of allocating costs and resources and assessing the performance of our segments. we report our segment information in accordance with the provisions of financial accounting standards board accounting standards codification topic 280, segment reporting, ( fasb asc topic 280 ). there has been no change in our total consolidated financial condition or results of operations previously reported as a result of the change in our segment structure. there were no changes to the reportable segment assets as a result of the change in segment reporting. as a result, the company's new segment reporting structure consists of three reportable segments and an other category and is as follows: food care; diversey care; product care; and other (includes corporate, medical applications and new ventures businesses). see note 4, segments for further information. during the fourth quarter of 2014, we changed the method of valuing our inventories that used the last-in first-out (lifo) method to the first-in first-out (fifo) method, so that all of our inventories are now valued at fifo. certain amounts have been revised to reflect the retrospective application of this change in inventory costing method for certain u.s. inventories to the fifo method from the lifo method. refer to note 2, summary of significant accounting policies - inventories, of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further details surrounding this accounting policy change. overview we are a global leader in food safety and security, facility hygiene and product protection. we serve an array of end markets including food and beverage processing, food service, retail, healthcare and industrial, and commercial and consumer applications. our focus is on achieving quality sales growth through leveraging our geographic footprint, technological know-how and leading market positions to bring measureable, sustainable value to our customers, employees and investors. we have widely recognized and inventive brands such as cryovac packaging technology, diversey and taski brand cleaning and hygiene solutions and our bubble wrap brand cushioning, jiffy protective mailers, and instapak foam-in-place systems. as of december 31, 2014, we employed approximately 7,100 sales, marketing and customer service personnel throughout the world who sell and market our products to and through a large number of distributors, fabricators, converters, e-commerce and mail order fulfillment firms, and contract packaging firms as well as directly to end-users such as food processors, foodservice businesses, supermarket retailers, lodging, retail pharmaceutical companies, healthcare facilities, medical device manufacturers, and other manufacturers. we have no material long-term contracts for the distribution of our products. in 2014, no customer or affiliated group of customers accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales. 34 historically, net sales in our food care segment have tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter, due to holiday events. net sales in our diversey care segment have tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter; second quarter sales represent a modest seasonal increase due to higher occupancy rates in european lodging; and the third and fourth quarters of the year are relatively the same level as the second quarter. net sales in our product care segment have also tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and higher in the mid-third quarter and through the fourth quarter due to holiday shopping season. on a consolidated basis, there is little seasonality in the business with net sales slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter. our consolidated net earnings typically trend directionally the same as our net sales seasonality. cash flow from operations has tended to be higher in the second half of the year, reflecting seasonality of sales and working capital changes, including the timing of certain annual incentive compensation payments. other factors may outweigh the effects of seasonal changes in our net earnings results including, but not limited to, changes in raw materials and other costs, foreign exchange rates, interest rates, taxes and the timing and amount of acquisition synergies and restructuring and other non-recurring charges. competition for most of our packaging products is based primarily on packaging performance characteristics, service and price. since competition is also based upon innovations in packaging technology, we maintain ongoing research and development programs to enable us to maintain technological leadership. our food care hygiene solutions and diversey care solutions businesses face a wide spectrum of competitors across each product category. competition is both global and regional in scope and includes numerous small, local competitors with limited product portfolios and geographic reach. for more details, see competition included in part i, item 1 business. our net sales are sensitive to developments in our customers' business or market conditions, changes in the global economy, and the effects of foreign currency translation. our costs can vary materially due to changes in input costs, including petrochemical-related costs (primarily resin costs), which are not within our control. consequently, our management focuses on reducing those costs that we can control and using petrochemical-based and other raw materials as efficiently as possible. we also believe that our global presence helps to insulate us from localized changes in business conditions. we manage our businesses to generate substantial operating cash flow. we believe that our operating cash flow will permit us to continue to spend on innovative research and development and to invest in our business by means of capital expenditures for property and equipment and acquisitions. moreover, we expect that our ability to generate substantial operating cash flow should provide us with the flexibility to repay debt and to return capital to our stockholders. highlights of financial performance below are the highlights of our financial performance for the three years ended december 31, 2014. year ended december 31, 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions, except per share amounts) 2014 2013 (1) 2012 (1) % change % change net sales $ 7,750.5 $ 7,690.8 $ 7,559.2 0.8 % 1.7 % gross profit $ 2,687.6 $ 2,589.9 $ 2,520.5 3.8 % 2.8 % as a % of net sales 34.7 % 33.7 % 33.3 % operating profit (loss) $ 653.6 $ 604.6 $ (1,429.5 ) 8.1 % #% as a % of net sales 8.4 % 7.9 % (18.9 )% net earnings (loss) available to common stockholders from continuing operations $ 258.1 $ 95.3 $ (1,619.0 ) 170.8 % #% net earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations - basic $ 1.22 $ 0.49 $ (8.40 ) 148.9 % #% net earnings (loss) per common share from continuing operations - diluted $ 1.20 $ 0.44 $ (8.40 ) 172.0 % #% weighted average number of common shares outstanding: basic 210.0 194.6 192.8 diluted 213.9 214.2 192.8 non-u.s. gaap adjusted ebitda from continuing operations (2) 1,118.3 1,040.5 978.9 7.5 % 6.3 % non-u.s. gaap adjusted eps from continuing operations $ 1.86 $ 1.39 $ 0.97 33.8 % 43.3 % 35 # denotes a variance greater than or equal to 100%, or not meaningful. (1) during the fourth quarter of 2014, we changed the method of valuing our inventories that used lifo method to the fifo method, so that all of our inventories are now valued at fifo. we applied this change in accounting principle retrospectively. accordingly certain previously reported financial information has been revised. see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies inventories for additional details regarding this accounting policy change. (2 ) see diluted net earnings per common share for a reconciliation of our u.s. gaap eps to our non-u.s. gaap adjusted eps. diluted net earnings per common share the following table presents a reconciliation of our u.s. gaap eps to non-u.s. gaap adjusted eps. year ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 net net net (in millions, except per share data) earnings eps earnings (1) eps (1) earnings (1) eps (1) u.s. gaap net earnings and eps available to common stockholders from continuing operations (2) $ 258.1 $ 1.20 $ 95.3 $ 0.44 $ (1,619.0 ) $ (8.40 ) special items (3) 140.8 0.66 203.8 0.95 1,826.2 9.37 non-u.s. gaap adjusted net earnings and eps available to common stockholders - continuing operations $ 398.9 $ 1.86 $ 299.1 $ 1.39 $ 207.2 $ 0.97 weighted average number of common shares outstanding - diluted 213.9 214.2 211.2 (1) during the fourth quarter of 2014, we changed the method of valuing our inventories that used lifo method to the fifo method, so that all of our inventories are now valued at fifo. we applied this change in accounting principle retrospectively. accordingly all previously reported financial information has been revised. see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies inventories for additional details regarding this accounting policy change. (2 ) net earnings per common share are calculated under the two-class method. (3) special items are certain one-time costs/credits that are included in our u.s. gaap reported results. for 2014, special items primarily included restructuring and other associated costs related to our restructuring programs of $102 million ($84 million, net of taxes), foreign currency exchange losses related to venezuelan subsidiaries of $20 million ($20 million, net of taxes), loss on debt redemption and refinancing activities of $103 million ($67 million, net of taxes), and costs related to development grant matter of $14 million ($14 million, net of taxes). these amounts were partially offset by our gain on claims settlement of $21 million and $46 million of additional tax benefits directly and indirectly related to the grace settlement, including the release of reserve related to unrecognized tax benefits, valuation allowances and unremitted earnings. for 2013, special items primarily included restructuring and other charges of $74 million ($59 million, net of taxes) and associated costs of $26 million ($18 million, net of taxes), related to both eqip and iop, $50 million increase to the valuation allowance in connection with the deferred tax asset related to the settlement agreement, loss on debt redemption of $36 million ($24 million, net of taxes), write down of non-strategic assets of $5 million ($3 million, net of taxes) and foreign currency exchange losses related to venezuelan subsidiaries of $13 million ($11 million, net of taxes). for 2012, these items primarily included (i) impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, (ii) restructuring charges and (iii) loss on debt redemption. for 2012, for purposes of calculating adjusted eps, the dilutive impact of: (i) the effect of the assumed issuance of 18 million shares of common stock reserved for the settlement agreement and (ii) the effect of non-vested restricted stock and restricted stock units using the treasury stock method was included because we reported adjusted net earnings for 2012. these shares differ from the shares used to calculate net loss per common share included in the consolidated statement of operations for u.s. gaap reporting purposes because we reported a net loss for 2012, which does not include the effect of the items mentioned above as the effect was anti-dilutive. see note 21, net earnings (loss) per common share, for details on the calculation of our u.s. gaap basic and diluted eps and non-u.s. gaap information above, for further details. 36 our u.s. gaap and non-u.s. gaap income taxes are as follows: year ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 effective effective effective (in millions) provision tax rate provision (1) tax rate (1) provision (benefit) (1) tax rate (1) u.s. gaap $ 9.1 3.4 % $ 84.9 47.1 % $ (265.4 ) 14.1 % non-u.s. gaap $ 113.0 22.1 % $ 78.2 20.7 % $ 70.7 25.4 % (1) during the fourth quarter of 2014, we changed the method of valuing our inventories that used lifo method to the fifo method, so that all of our inventories are now valued at fifo. we applied this change in accounting principle retrospectively. accordingly all previously reported financial information has been revised. see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies inventories for additional details regarding this accounting policy change. foreign currency translation impact on consolidated financial results since we are a u.s. domiciled company, we translate our foreign currency-denominated financial results into u.s. dollars. due to the changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar, translating our financial results from foreign currencies to u.s. dollars may result in a favorable or unfavorable impact. historically, the most significant currencies that have impacted the translation of our consolidated financial results are the euro, the australian dollar, the brazilian real, the british pound, the canadian dollar and the mexican peso. the following table presents the approximate favorable or (unfavorable) impact foreign currency translation had on some of our consolidated financial results: (in millions) 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 net sales $ (183.3 ) $ (75.6 ) cost of sales (1) $ 125.1 $ 64.5 selling, general and administrative expenses $ 29.5 $ 9.4 net earnings from continuing operations (1) $ (18.2 ) $ 1.2 adjusted ebitda (1) $ (30.1 ) $ (0.6 ) (1) during the fourth quarter of 2014, we changed the method of valuing our inventories that used lifo method to the fifo method, so that all of our inventories are now valued at fifo. we applied this change in accounting principle retrospectively. accordingly all previously reported financial information has been revised. see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies inventories for additional details regarding this accounting policy change. net sales by geographic region net sales by geographic region for three years ended december 31, 2014 as follows: year ended december 31, 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) 2014 2013 (1) 2012 (1) % change % change north america $ 3,071.9 $ 3,004.9 $ 2,952.4 2.2 % 1.8 % as a % of net sales 39.6 % 39.1 % 39.1 % europe $ 2,447.1 $ 2,427.3 $ 2,416.5 0.8 % 0.4 % as a % of net sales 31.6 % 31.6 % 32.0 % latin america $ 807.5 $ 840.7 $ 799.7 (3.9 ) % 5.1 % as a % of net sales 10.4 % 10.9 % 10.6 % amat (2) $ 869.5 $ 845.1 $ 794.4 2.9 % 6.4 % as a % of net sales 11.2 % 11.0 % 10.5 % janz (3) $ 554.5 $ 572.8 $ 596.2 (3.2 ) % (3.9 ) % as a % of net sales 7.2 % 7.4 % 7.9 % total $ 7,750.5 $ 7,690.8 $ 7,559.2 0.8 % 1.7 % (1 ) as of january 1, 2013, the company changed the measure for analyzing sales by geographic regions. sales attributed to each geographic region in the table above are based on customer destination. prior to january 1, 2013, sales were attributable to geographic region based on shipping origin. 37 (2 ) amat = asia, middle east, africa and turkey (3 ) janz = japan, australia and new zealand by geographic region, the components of the increase in net sales for 2014 compared with 2013 were as follows: (in millions) north america europe latin america amat janz total 2013 net sales (1) $ 3,004.9 $ 2,427.3 $ 840.7 $ 845.1 $ 572.8 $ 7,690.8 volume-units (13.4 ) (0.5 ) % (2.6 ) (0.1 ) % (26.2 ) (3.1 ) % 36.7 4.3 % (0.9 ) (0.2 ) % (6.4 ) % product price/mix 99.0 3.3 % 20.1 0.8 % 96.5 11.5 % 21.8 2.6 % 12.0 2.1 % 249.4 3.2 % total constant dollar change (non-u.s. gaap) 85.6 2.8 % 17.5 0.7 % 70.3 8.4 % 58.5 6.9 % 11.1 1.9 % 243.0 3.2 % foreign currency translation (18.6 ) (0.6 ) % 2.3 0.1 % (103.5 ) (12.3 ) % (34.1 ) (4.0 ) % (29.4 ) (5.1 ) % (183.3 ) (2.4 ) % total 67.0 2.2 % 19.8 0.8 % (33.2 ) (3.9 ) % 24.4 2.9 % (18.3 ) (3.2 ) % 59.7 0.8 % 2014 net sales $ 3,071.9 $ 2,447.1 $ 807.5 $ 869.5 $ 554.5 $ 7,750.5 (1 ) as of january 1, 2013, the company changed the measure for analyzing sales by geographic regions. sales attributed to each geographic region in the table above are based on customer destination. prior to january 1, 2013, sales were attributable to geographic region based on shipping origin. by geographic region, the components of the increase in net sales for 2013 compared with 2012 were as follows: (in millions) north america europe latin america amat janz total 2012 net sales (1) $ 2,952.4 $ 2,416.5 $ 799.7 $ 794.4 $ 596.2 $ 7,559.2 volume-units 18.7 0.6 % (2.2 ) (0.1 ) % 36.5 4.6 % 54.3 6.8 % 6.7 1.1 % 114.0 1.5 % volumes - acquired business, net of (dispositions) (1.2 ) % 0.3 % 0.1 % 0.3 % % (0.5 ) % product price/mix 44.5 1.5 % (3.8 ) (0.2 ) % 40.5 5.1 % 16.3 2.0 % (3.8 ) (0.6 ) % 93.7 1.2 % total constant dollar change (non-u.s. gaap) 62.0 2.1 % (5.7 ) (0.3 ) % 77.1 9.7 % 70.9 8.8 % 2.9 0.5 % 207.2 2.7 % foreign currency translation (7.5 ) (0.3 ) % 37.1 1.5 % (52.5 ) (6.6 ) % (18.6 ) (2.3 ) % (34.1 ) (5.7 ) % (75.6 ) (1.0 ) % total change (u.s. gaap) 54.5 1.8 % 31.4 1.2 % 24.6 3.1 % 52.3 6.5 % (31.2 ) (5.2 ) % 131.6 1.7 % 2013 net sales (1) $ 3,006.9 $ 2,447.9 $ 824.3 $ 846.7 $ 565.0 $ 7,690.8 (1 ) net sales in the above table are attributed to geographic region based on shipping origin. 38 net sales by segment the following table presents net sales by our segment reporting structure: year ended december 31, 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) 2014 2013 2012 % change % change net sales: food care $ 3,835.3 $ 3,814.2 $ 3,744.0 0.6 % 1.9 % as a % of total company net sales 49.5 % 49.6 % 49.5 % diversey care 2,173.1 2,160.8 2,131.9 0.6 % 1.4 % as a % of total company net sales 28.0 % 28.1 % 28.2 % product care 1,655.0 1,610.0 1,580.4 2.8 % 1.9 % as a % of total company net sales 21.4 % 20.9 % 20.9 % total reportable segments 7,663.4 7,585.0 7,456.3 1.0 % 1.7 % other 87.1 105.8 102.9 (17.7 ) % 2.8 % total company $ 7,750.5 $ 7,690.8 $ 7,559.2 0.8 % 1.7 % 39 components of change in net sales by segment the following tables present the components of change in net sales by our segment reporting structure for 2014 compared with 2013 and 2013 compared with 2012. we also present the change in net sales excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, a non-u.s. gaap measure, which we define as constant dollar. we believe using constant dollar measures aids in the comparability between periods as it eliminates the volatility of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. (in millions) food care diversey care product care other total company 2013 net sales $ 3,814.2 $ 2,160.8 $ 1,610.0 $ 105.8 $ 7,690.8 volume - units (16.1 ) (0.4 ) % 27.4 1.3 % 2.6 0.2 % (20.3 ) (19.2 ) % (6.4 ) % product price/mix (1) 154.2 4.0 % 37.4 1.7 % 55.7 3.5 % 2.1 2.0 % 249.4 3.2 % total constant dollar change (non-u.s. gaap) 138.1 3.6 % 64.8 3.0 % 58.3 3.7 % (18.2 ) (17.2 ) % 243.0 3.2 % foreign currency translation (117.0 ) (3.0 ) % (52.5 ) (2.4 ) % (13.3 ) (0.9 ) % (0.5 ) (0.5 ) % (183.3 ) (2.4 ) % total change (u.s. gaap) 21.1 0.6 % 12.3 0.6 % 45.0 2.8 % (18.7 ) (17.7 ) % 59.7 0.8 % 2014 net sales $ 3,835.3 $ 2,173.1 $ 1,655.0 $ 87.1 $ 7,750.5 (in millions) food care diversey care product care other total company 2012 net sales $ 3,744.0 $ 2,131.9 $ 1,580.4 $ 102.9 $ 7,559.2 volume - units 62.1 1.7 % 11.3 0.5 % 40.6 2.6 % % 114.0 1.5 % volumes - acquired business, net of (dispositions) % % % (0.5 ) (0.5 ) % (0.5 ) % product price/mix (1) 60.9 1.6 % 32.8 1.5 % (2.5 ) (0.2 ) % 2.5 2.5 % 93.7 1.2 % total constant dollar change (non- u.s. gaap) 123.0 3.3 % 44.1 2.0 % 38.1 2.4 % 2.0 2.0 % 207.2 2.7 % foreign currency translation (52.8 ) (1.4 ) % (15.2 ) (0.6 ) % (8.5 ) (0.5 ) % 0.9 0.8 % (75.6 ) (1.0 ) % total change (u.s. gaap) 70.2 1.9 % 28.9 1.4 % 29.6 1.9 % 2.9 2.8 % 131.6 1.7 % 2013 net sales $ 3,814.2 $ 2,160.8 $ 1,610.0 $ 105.8 $ 7,690.8 (1) our product price/mix reported above includes the net impact of our pricing actions and rebates as well as the period-to-period change in the mix of products sold. also included in our reported product price/mix is the net effect of some of our customers purchasing our products in non-u.s. dollar or euro denominated countries at selling prices denominated in u.s. dollars or euros. this primarily arises when we export products from the u.s. and euro-zone countries. the impact to our reported product price/mix of these purchases in other countries at selling prices denominated in u.s. dollars or euros was not material in the periods included in the table above. the following net sales discussion is on a constant dollar basis. food care 2014 compared with 2013 the $138 million, or 4%, constant dollar increase in net sales in 2014 compared with 2013 was primarily due to: favorable product price/mix in all regions, primarily in latin america of $72 million, or 13%, north america $60 million, or 4%, and janz $11 million, or 3%, reflecting favorable results from the progression of our pricing and value initiatives implemented to offset increase in raw material costs, currency de-valuation and non-material inflationary costs; and higher unit volumes in europe of $20 million, or 2%, and amat of $12 million, or 4%, due to strong demand for our innovative products, value added solutions and new platforms. 40 these favorable drivers were partially offset by lower unit volumes in north america of $26 million, or 2%, in latin america of $17 million, or 3%, largely attributable to a decline in beef production in north america and ped virus impact related to the pork market in both north america and mexico. 2013 compared with 2012 the $123 million, or 3%, constant dollar increase in net sales in 2013 compared with 2012 was primarily due to higher unit volumes in amat of $32 million, or 12%, and in latin america of $25 million, or 5%, due to an increase in beef production rates, hygiene standards as well as strong customer acceptance of new products; and favorable product price/mix in latin america of $32 million, or 6%, and in north america of $26 million, or 2%, reflecting favorable results from the progression of our pricing initiatives implemented to offset increases in raw material costs, specifically in brazil, argentina and in the u.s. diversey care 2014 compared with 2013 the $65 million, or 3%, constant dollar increase in net sales in 2014 compared with 2013 was primarily due to: higher unit volumes in amat of $20 million, or 5%, in north america of $13 million, or 2%, and in latin america of $11 million, or 6%, due to increase sales as a result of new customers and strong end market demand, especially in the building service contractor, food service and hospitality sectors; and favorable product price/mix in latin america of $17 million, or 9%, in amat of $12 million, or 3% and in europe of $9 million, or 1%. these increases were due to the favorable impact from our effort to eliminate low margin business and improve the quality of our earnings. these favorable drivers were offset by lower unit volumes in europe $14 million, or 1%, due to the continuing economic challenges in this region and our customer and product rationalization efforts. 2013 compared with 2012 the $44 million, or 2%, constant dollar increase in net sales in 2013 compared with 2012 was primarily due to: favorable product price/mix of $25 million, or 2%. this increase is primarily due to our pricing actions in 2013 in all regions, primarily in latin america and amat, which have more than offset input cost increases; higher unit volumes in amat of $21 million, or 6%, due to growth primarily in the hospitality and food service sectors; and higher unit volumes in latin america of $11 million, or 6%, due to growth in food services, channel and retail sectors. these favorable factors were offset by lower unit volumes in europe of $13 million, or 1%, due to the economic challenges in this region. product care 2014 compared with 2013 the $58 million, or 4%, constant dollar increase in net sales in 2014 compared with 2013 was primarily due to: favorable product price/mix in all regions, primarily in north america of $41 million, or 4%, and in latin america of $8 million, or 10%, reflecting results from our focus on shifting our business from general use towards high-performance packaging solutions, including cushioning and packaging systems, and the progression of our pricing and value initiatives implemented to offset increases in raw material costs and non-material inflationary costs as well as currency devaluation; and higher unit volumes of $3 million, which was reflective of growth in the e-commerce and third-party logistics sectors in all regions, partially offset by lower unit volumes from our sales in our general use products as result of our product rationalization efforts. 41 2013 compared with 2012 the $38 million, or 2%, constant dollar increase in net sales in 2013 compared with 2012 was primarily due to: an increase in unit volumes of $21 million, or 2% in north america, $8 million, or 8% in janz and $7 million, or 2% in europe, primarily due to strong growth in the packaging systems sector; and favorable product price/mix of $8 million, or 1% in north america reflecting results from the progression of our pricing initiatives implemented in north america in the fourth quarter of 2013 to offset increases in raw material costs, which was partially offset by unfavorable product price/mix of $7 million, or 2% in europe, primarily related to consumer based and large e-commerce customers. cost of sales cost of sales for the three years ended december 31, 2014 was as follows: year ended december 31, 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) 2014 2013 2012 % change % change net sales $ 7,750.5 $ 7,690.8 $ 7,559.2 0.8 % 1.7 % cost of sales 5,062.9 5,100.9 5,038.7 (0.7 )% 1.2 % as a % of net sales 65.3 % 66.3 % 66.7 % 2014 compared with 2013 cost of sales was impacted by favorable foreign currency translation of $125 million. on a constant dollar basis, cost of sales increased $87 million, or 2%, primarily due to: the unfavorable impact of higher raw material costs of $78 million, an increase in non-material inflationary costs of $41 million, primarily related to non-material inflation including salaries, wages and benefit expenses; and increase in cash annual incentive compensation expense of $10 million primarily due to the change in the anticipated level of achievement of our annual cash incentive compensation targets. these factors were partially offset by favorable impact of cost synergies of $47 million and other supply chain efficiencies. we anticipate raw material costs will have a favorable impact on cost of sales in 2015 as compared with 2014; however, we also expect an unfavorable impact on net earnings related to foreign currency. our pricing actions could be placed under negative pressure due to declines in raw material costs, and could result in a loss of sales volumes as certain customers may choose to purchase products from our competitors at lower prices. 2013 compared with 2012 cost of sales was impacted by a favorable foreign currency translation impact of $62 million. on a constant dollar basis, cost of sales increased $128 million, or 3%. some of the factors that contributed to the increase in cost of sales were: higher raw material costs of $38 million; inflationary costs of $46 million, primarily related to non-material inflation including salaries, wages and benefit expenses; higher profit sharing expense of $7 million due to achieving most of our 2013 financial performance goals; and higher freight costs of $7 million; and increased costs to support higher unit volumes. 42 these factors were partially offset by the favorable impact of: incremental cost synergies associated with iop of $44 million; and lower associated costs incurred with the implementation of iop of $9 million. cost of sales as a percentage of net sales decreased in the last three years primarily reflecting manufacturing efficiency improvements and synergies from our restructuring programs. selling, general and administrative expenses selling, general and administrative expenses for the three years ended december 31, 2014 are included in the table below. year ended december 31, 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) 2014 2013 2012 % change % change selling, general and administrative expenses 1,837.2 1,749.1 1,756.7 5.0 % (0.4 )% as a % of net sales 23.7 % 22.7 % 23.2 % 2014 compared with 2013 sg&amp;a expenses were impacted by favorable foreign currency translation of $29 million. on a constant dollar basis, sg&amp;a expenses increased $117 million, or 7%. this increase was primarily due to: higher compensation and benefits expenses of $89 million, including the impact of annual salary increases and inflation of $54 million and, to a lesser extent, the impact of higher cash annual incentive compensation expense of $35 million primarily due to the change in the anticipated level of achievement of our annual cash incentive compensation targets; higher performance based annual incentive compensation expense of $24 million, primarily due to the change in the anticipated level of achievement related to certain psu award programs as well as the impact of new psu award programs approved in 2014; costs related to development grant matter of $14 million; higher information system expense of $12 million, primarily due to our erp software implementations and upgrades in 2014; higher sales and marketing expense of $6 million, primarily due to support our sales expansion in amat and other developing regions, incremental costs incurred with the implementation of restructuring programs of $5 million; and incremental costs incurred as a result of termination of licensing agreement of $3 million. these factors were partially offset by the favorable impact of cost synergies of $50 million realized from our restructuring activities. 2013 compared with 2012 selling, general and administrative expenses were impacted by a favorable foreign currency translation impact of $9 million. on a constant dollar basis, selling, general and administrative expenses increased $2 million, primarily due to: higher inflationary costs of $35 million, including the impact of salaries, wages and benefit expenses; higher performance based annual incentive compensation of $25 million and higher profit sharing expense of $9 million, primarily due to achieving most of our 2013 financial performance goals; and incremental costs incurred with the implementation of restructuring programs of $13 million. these factors were partially offset by the favorable impact of cost synergies associated with iop of $68 million. 43 amortization expense of intangible assets acquired amortization expense of intangible assets acquired for the three years ended december 31, 2014 was as follows: year ended december 31, 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) 2014 2013 2012 % change % change amortization expense of intangible assets acquired $ 118.9 $ 123.2 $ 132.7 (3.5 )% (7.2 )% as a % of net sales 1.5 % 1.6 % 1.8 % amortization expense of intangible was impacted by favorable foreign currency translation of $1 million. on a constant dollar basis, amortization expenses decreased $3 million, or 3%. this decrease was primarily due to certain license agreements and software which we acquired as part of the diversey acquisition, which were fully amortized as of september, 2014. the decrease in amortization expense in 2013 as compared with 2012 was primarily due to the impact of the non-cash impairment charge recorded in 2012, which lowered the carrying value of certain intangible assets acquired, which in turn resulted in lower amortization expense in 2013. impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets during the third quarter of 2012, due to the continuing unfavorable economic conditions primarily in europe and north america, we re-evaluated the near and long-term expected business performance of our diversey business. our diversey business had experienced operating results that were significantly lower than expected during the first half of 2012 and lower than originally forecasted at the time of the acquisition of diversey in 2011. also during the third quarter of 2012, we started our annual multi-year strategic forecasting and planning process, which is prepared for all reporting units in the second half of each year. in connection with this process, we re-evaluated the near and long-term expected business performance of the diversey business and considered the long-term market conditions and business trends within each of the diversey regional reporting units. as a result of our re-evaluation, we determined that our european business was not expected to achieve any significant growth until late 2013 or 2014. additionally, in north america, we were not able to pass along to our customers, increases in raw material costs that began in late 2011 and continued into 2012, consequently causing margins to be significantly lower than originally expected. also, the impact of lower sales and increases in raw material costs in latin america caused that region's operating results to be lower than expected. when we factored the impact of these unfavorable conditions into our strategic forecasting and planning process, we determined that these were significant indicators of potential impairment in accordance with asc 350, intangibles-goodwill and other. accordingly, we performed an interim impairment test for both the goodwill and long-lived assets of the diversey european, north american and latin american reporting units. during the fourth quarter of 2012, we began to operate under our new business division structure, which created the diversey care and hygiene solutions (which is included in the food care segment) reporting units from the previous legacy diversey segment. in connection with this new business division structure, we revised our multi-year forecast under the new reporting unit structure. included in the revised multi-year forecast was our expectation that there would be further economic weakness in europe, particularly in southern europe, which was more severe than we initially forecasted during our third quarter 2012 interim impairment review. the diversey care and hygiene solutions reporting units both derive a significant portion of their revenue from europe. also, included in the revised multi-year forecast for the diversey care and hygiene solutions reporting units were the reported results for these reporting units for the fourth quarter of 2012. the reported results for both the diversey care and hygiene solutions reporting units were lower than originally forecasted at the end of the third quarter of 2012. in particular, the diversey care reporting unit experienced lower volumes in its consumer brands and lower equipment sales in europe as compared with the fourth quarter of 2011. in addition, the diversey care reporting unit continued to incur higher sales and marketing expenses compared with the fourth quarter of 2011. during the fourth quarter of 2012, several new members of our senior management team believed that a new and enhanced business strategy was required to successfully operate both the diversey care and hygiene solutions businesses. the combination of the factors mentioned above unfavorably impacted our near and long-term forecasted revenues and cash flows for the diversey care and hygiene solutions reporting units. at december 31, 2012, we considered the factors mentioned above, including our new business division structure, and we determined that further indicators of impairment were present. accordingly, we performed an interim assessment of impairment of our goodwill and long-lived assets for the diversey care and hygiene solutions reporting units. in 2012, we recorded a pre-tax non-cash impairment charge of $1,892 million of goodwill and other intangible assets. 44 as part of our evaluation in 2014 and 2013, the profitability and operating performance of the diversey care and hygiene solutions reporting units showed improvement compared to 2012. this operating performance improvement was factored into our annual multi-year strategic forecasting and planning process, which was prepared for all of our reporting units in the second half of each year. in connection with this process, we evaluated the near and long-term expected business performance of all the reporting units and considered the long-term market conditions and business trends within each of the reporting units. as a result of this annual evaluation, there was no indication of impairment for any of the reporting units in 2014 and 2013. see note 7, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, for details of our goodwill balance and the goodwill reviews performed in 2014, 2013 and 2012 and other related information. stock appreciation rights expense sars expense for the three years ended december 31, 2014 is as follows: year ended december 31, 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) 2014 2013 2012 % change % change stock appreciation rights expense $ 8.1 $ 38.1 $ 18.4 (78.7 )% 107.1 % as a % of net sales 0.1 % 0.5 % 0.2 % sars expense includes the impact of changes in the share price of our common stock. the share price of our common stock increased 25% in 2014 as compared to an increase of approximately 94% in 2013. see note 18, stockholder's equity, for further details of our sars program. as of december 31, 2014, we had approximately 600,000 sars outstanding, of which approximately 300,000 were unvested and will vest entirely by march 31, 2015. integration related costs we recorded integration related costs approximately $4 million in 2014, $1 million in 2013 and $7 million in 2012. these costs primarily consist of professional and consulting fees. restructuring activities fusion on december 18, 2014, the board of directors of the company approved a new restructuring plan (the fusion program or the plan ), which consists of a portfolio of restructuring projects across all of our divisions as part of our transformation of sealed air corporation into a knowledge-based company, including reduction in headcount and consolidation and relocation of certain facilities and offices, including the relocation of the company's headquarters to charlotte, nc as announced on july 23, 2014. the company currently estimates that it will incur aggregate costs of approximately $275 million to $285 million in connection with the implementation of this plan. the net cash cost of the plan is expected to be in the range of $210 million to $220 million. the costs associated with the plan, the majority of which are expected to be incurred between 2015 and 2017, will primarily consist of (i) a reduction in headcount through reorganization and integration, including severance and termination benefits for employees, expected to be approximately $115 million to $120 million, and (ii) other costs associated with the plan, primarily relating to the rationalization, consolidation and relocation of certain portions of our global supply chain and other facilities and offices, expected to be approximately $160 million to $165 million. included in the total cash costs, the company anticipates approximately $55 million to $65 million of capital expenditures related to the plan, of which the majority is expected to be incurred between 2015 and 2016. the plan is expected to be substantially complete by the end of 2017. the plan is currently estimated to generate annualized synergies of approximately $80 million to $85 million by the end of 2018. additionally, the plan is expected to generate cash and benefits of approximately $65 million from the sale of certain assets, state and local incentives in connection with the relocation of the company's headquarters and reductions in working capital. these amounts are preliminary estimates based on the information currently available to management. 45 earnings quality improvement program (eqip) on may 1, 2013, we commenced with our eqip, which is an initiative to deliver meaningful cost savings and network optimization. the plan is estimated to generate annualized savings of approximately $90-$110 million by the end of 2016. we achieved $69 million incremental cost synergies in 2014 related to this program compared with 2013. we achieved these synergies in cost of sales ($28 million) and in selling, general and administrative expenses ($41 million), primarily in our food care and diversey care divisions. integration and optimization program (iop) in december 2011, we initiated a restructuring program associated with the integration of diversey's business following our acquisition of diversey on october 3, 2011. this program is expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2015. we achieved $27 million incremental cost synergies in 2014 related to this program compared with 2013. we achieved these synergies in cost of sales ($18 million) and in selling, general and administrative expenses ($9 million), primarily in our food care and diversey care divisions. the actual timing of future costs and cash payments related to the programs described above and our relocation activities is subject to change due to a variety of factors that may cause a portion of the costs, spending and benefits to occur later than expected. in addition, changes in foreign exchange rates may impact future costs, spending and benefits and cost synergies. see note 9, restructuring and relocation activities, for further discussion of the costs, cash payments and liabilities associated with these programs and relocation activities. adjusted ebitda by segment as of january 1, 2014, the company changed the segment measure in which the management assesses segment performance and makes allocation decisions by segment from operating profit (a u.s. gaap financial measure) to adjusted ebitda (a non-u.s. gaap financial measure). adjusted ebitda is defined as earnings before interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization, adjusted to exclude the impact of special items. see use of non-u.s. gaap information above for a discussion of special items and further information of our use of non-u.s. gaap measures. we allocate and disclose depreciation and amortization expense to our segments, although property and equipment, net is not allocated to the segment assets, nor is depreciation and amortization included in the segment performance metric adjusted ebitda. we also allocate and disclose restructuring and other charges and impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets by segment, although it is not included in the segment performance metric adjusted ebitda since restructuring and other charges and impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets are categorized as special items. the accounting policies of the reportable segments and other are the same as those applied to the consolidated financial statements. see note 4, segments, for the reconciliation of non-u.s. gaap adjusted ebitda to u.s. gaap net earnings from continuing operations and other segment details. year ended december 31, 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) 2014 2013 (1) 2012 (1) change change food care $ 670.2 $ 614.7 $ 576.3 9.0 % 6.7 % adjusted ebitda margin 17.5 % 16.1 % 15.4 % diversey care 245.0 237.3 217.9 3.2 % 8.9 % adjusted ebitda margin 11.3 % 11.0 % 10.2 % product care 292.7 266.3 267.0 9.9 % (0.3 )% adjusted ebitda margin 17.7 % 16.5 % 16.9 % total reportable segments adjusted ebitda 1,207.9 1,118.3 1,061.2 8.0 % 5.4 % other (89.6 ) (77.8 ) (82.3 ) 15.2 % (5.5 )% non-u.s. gaap total company adjusted ebitda $ 1,118.3 $ 1,040.5 $ 978.9 7.5 % 6.3 % adjusted ebitda margin 14.4 % 13.5 % 12.9 % (1) during the fourth quarter of 2014, we changed the method of valuing our inventories that used lifo method to the fifo method, so that all of our inventories are now valued at fifo. we applied this change in accounting principle retrospectively. accordingly all previously reported financial information has been revised. see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies inventories for additional details regarding this accounting policy change. 46 the following is a discussion of the factors that contributed to the change in adjusted ebitda by segment in the three years ended december 31, 2014 as compared with the prior year. food care 2014 compared with 2013 adjusted ebitda was impacted by unfavorable foreign currency translation of $20 million. on a constant dollar basis, adjusted ebitda increased $75 million, or 12%, in 2014 compared with the same period in 2013 primarily due to the impact of: impact of favorable product/price mix, margin expansion, and manufacturing efficiency improvements of $87 million; cost synergies of $51 million primarily due to eqip restructuring program. these favorable drivers were partially offset by: an increase in sg&amp;a and other expense of $51 million, primarily due to compensation and benefits expense of $22 million, including the impact of annual salary increases and inflation, higher annual cash incentive compensation expense of $22 million, and increase in research and development expense; and an unfavorable impact of lower unit volumes of $12 million. 2013 compared with 2012 the increase in food care's adjusted ebitda was primarily due to the impact of cost synergies associated with iop of $58 million, impact of higher volumes of $20 million, and the impact of favorable product/price mix and manufacturing efficiency improvements of $25 million. these factors were partially offset by higher performance based annual incentive compensation of $21 million, higher selling, general and administrative expenses incurred in support of the increase in net sales as well as non-material supply chain inflation. diversey care 2014 compared with 2013 adjusted ebitda was impacted by unfavorable foreign currency translation of $10 million. on a constant dollar basis, adjusted ebitda increased $18 million, or 8%, in 2014 compared with the same period in 2013 primarily due to the impact of: impact of favorable product/price mix and manufacturing efficiency improvements of $26 million; impact of higher unit volumes of $9 million; and cost synergies of $23 million primarily due to eqip restructuring program. these favorable drivers were partially offset by: an increase in sg&amp;a and other expense of $40 million, primarily due to compensation and benefits expense of $22 million, including the impact of annual salary increases, and inflation and higher annual cash incentive compensation expense of $8 million; and an increase in expense of $6 million for sales and marketing primarily to support our sales expansion in amat. 2013 compared with 2012 the increase in diversey care's adjusted ebitda was primarily due to the impact of cost synergies associated with iop of $34 million, and favorable product/price mix and manufacturing efficiency improvements of $20 million. these factors were partially offset by non-material supply chain inflation costs, and higher performance based annual incentive compensation of $7 million. product care 2014 compared with 2013 adjusted ebitda was impacted by unfavorable foreign currency translation of $2 million. on a constant dollar basis, adjusted ebitda increased $28 million, or 11%, in 2014 compared with the same period in 2013 primarily due to the impact of: impact of favorable product/price mix and manufacturing efficiency improvements of $37 million; cost synergies of $17 million primarily due to eqip restructuring program. 47 these favorable drivers were partially offset by: an increase in sg&amp;a and other expense of $24 million, primarily due to compensation and benefits expense of $7 million, including the impact of annual salary increases, and inflation and higher annual cash incentive compensation expense of $12 million, and increase in research and development, sales and marketing expenses and other sg&amp;a expenses to support the sales expansion in developing regions. 2013 compared with 2012 the decline in product care's adjusted ebitda was primarily due to unfavorable impact of non-material supply chain inflation costs, higher selling, general and administrative expenses and higher performance based annual incentive compensation of $7 million. these factors were partially offset by incremental cost synergies associated with iop of $19 million and the impact of higher volumes of $16 million. other 2014 compared with 2013 this category's adjusted ebitda loss increased $12 million in 2014 as compared with 2013, primarily due to higher information systems expense of $8 million in corporate related to our erp software implementations and upgrades in 2014. additionally, lower volumes in our medical applications and new venture business had an unfavorable impact of $7 million. 2013 compared with 2012 the increase in other adjusted ebitda was primarily due to the favorable impact of positive price/mix and lower research and development costs as a result of the decision we made to abandon future development work on a project included in our new ventures business. 48 reconciliation of non-u.s. gaap total company adjusted ebitda to u.s. gaap net earnings (loss) from continuing operations the following table shows a reconciliation of non-u.s. gaap total company adjusted ebitda to u.s. gaap net earnings from continuing operations: year ended december 31, (in millions) 2014 2013 (1) 2012 (1) non-u.s. gaap total company adjusted ebitda $ 1,118.3 $ 1,040.5 $ 978.9 depreciation and amortization (2) (320.8 ) (307.5 ) (317.1 ) special items: write down of non-strategic assets included in depreciation and amortization 2.1 5.3 0.8 restructuring and other charges (3) (65.7 ) (73.8 ) (142.5 ) other restructuring associated costs included in cost of sales and selling general and administrative expenses (34.2 ) (32.0 ) (38.9 ) development grant matter included in selling, general and administrative expenses (14.0 ) termination of licensing agreement (5.3 ) relocation costs included in selling, general and administrative expenses (2.4 ) sars (8.1 ) (38.1 ) (18.4 ) integration related costs (4.1 ) (1.1 ) (7.4 ) impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets (1,892.3 ) impairment of equity method investment including related bad debt write-down of $2.3 million in 2012 (5.7 ) (2.1 ) (25.8 ) foreign currency exchange losses related to venezuelan subsidiaries (20.4 ) (13.1 ) (0.4 ) loss on debt redemption and refinancing activities (102.5 ) (36.3 ) (36.9 ) gain from claims settlement in 2014 and related costs 20.3 (1.0 ) (0.7 ) non-operating charge for contingent guarantee included in other income (expense), net (2.5 ) other income (expense), net (0.1 ) 0.4 1.0 interest expense (287.7 ) (361.0 ) (384.7 ) income tax provision (benefit) 9.1 84.9 (265.4 ) u.s. gaap net earnings (loss) from continuing operations $ 258.1 $ 95.3 $ (1,619.0 ) (1 ) during the fourth quarter of 2014, we changed the method of valuing our inventories that used lifo method to the fifo method, so that all of our inventories are now valued at fifo. we applied this change in accounting principle retrospectively. accordingly all previously reported financial information has been revised. see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies inventories for additional details regarding this accounting policy change. (2 ) depreciation and amortization by segment, including share-based incentive compensation, is as follows: year ended december 31, (in millions) 2014 2013 2012 food care $ 121.3 $ 118.4 $ 140.0 diversey care 126.3 132.3 127.6 product care 41.4 38.2 37.9 total reportable segments 289.0 288.9 305.5 other 31.8 18.6 11.6 total company depreciation and amortization $ 320.8 $ 307.5 $ 317.1 49 (3) restructuring and other charges by our segment reporting structure were as follows: year ended december 31, (in millions) 2014 2013 2012 food care $ 27.3 $ 25.1 $ 72.0 diversey care 24.3 32.2 53.1 product care 13.6 16.4 16.7 total reportable segments 65.2 73.7 141.8 other 0.5 0.1 0.7 total company restructuring and other charges $ 65.7 $ 73.8 $ 142.5 the restructuring and other charges in 2014 and 2013 primarily relate to our previously announced earnings quality improvement program (eqip). the restructuring and other charges in 2012 primarily relate to the integration and optimization program (iop). see note 9, restructuring and relocation activities, for further discussion. interest expense interest expense includes the stated interest rate on our outstanding debt, as well as the net impact of capitalized interest, the effects of interest rate swaps and the amortization of capitalized senior debt issuance costs and credit facility fees, bond discounts, and terminated treasury locks. interest expense for the three years ended december 31, 2014 was as follows: year ended december 31, 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) 2014 2013 2012 change change interest expense on the amount payable for the settlement agreement (1) $ 4.6 $ 48.2 $ 45.7 $ (43.6 ) $ 2.5 interest expense on our various debt instruments: 5.625% senior notes due july 2013 (2) 19.2 (19.2 ) 12% senior notes due february 2014 (3) 2.1 14.9 15.2 (12.8 ) (0.3 ) term loan a due july, 2017 (4)(6) 2.1 2.1 term loan a due july 2019 (october 2016 prior to refinance) (4)(6) 26.9 30.4 35.8 (3.5 ) (5.4 ) term loan b due october 2018 (4)(6) 14.6 37.1 64.0 (22.5 ) (26.9 ) revolving credit facility due july 2019 (october 2016 prior to refinance) (4)(6) 8.4 4.2 4.1 4.2 0.1 7.875% senior notes due june 2017 (5) 7.6 33.3 (7.6 ) (25.7 ) 8.125% senior notes due september 2019 (7) 57.3 62.4 62.3 (5.1 ) 0.1 6.50% senior notes due december 2020 26.7 28.3 2.5 (1.6 ) 25.8 8.375% senior notes due september 2021 64.1 63.9 63.8 0.2 0.1 4.875% senior notes due december 2022 (7) 2.2 2.2 5.25% senior notes due april 2023 (5) 23.0 17.8 5.2 17.8 5.125% senior notes due december 2024 (7) 2.3 2.3 6.875% senior notes due july 2033 30.9 30.9 30.9 other interest expense 28.7 20.2 13.4 8.5 6.8 less: capitalized interest (6.2 ) (4.9 ) (5.5 ) (1.3 ) 0.6 total $ 287.7 $ 361.0 $ 384.7 $ (73.3 ) $ (23.7 ) (1 ) the decline in interest expense in 2014 as compared with 2013 was due to the funding of the cash payment for the settlement agreement on february 3, 2014. see note 17, commitments and contingencies for further details. (2 ) in november 2012, we issued $425 million of 6.50% senior notes due 2020. substantially all of the proceeds from this offering were used to purchase the outstanding amount ($400 million) of the 5.625% senior notes due july 2013. (3 ) we repaid the notes upon maturity on february 14, 2014. (4 ) in connection with the acquisition of diversey on october 3, 2011, we entered into a senior credit facility consisting of: (i) a $1.1 billion multicurrency term loan a facility, (ii) a $1.2 billion multicurrency term loan b facility and (iii) a $700 million revolving credit facility. we also issued $750 million of 8.125% senior notes and $750 million of 8.375% senior notes. 50 (5 ) in march 2013, we issued $425 million of 5.25% senior notes due 2023. substantially all of the proceeds from this offering were used to purchase the outstanding amount ($400 million) of the 7.875% senior notes due july 2017. see note 11, debt and credit facilities, and loss on debt redemption below for further details. (6 ) on july 25, 2014 the company entered into a second restatement agreement, see note 11, debt and credit facilities for further information. (7 ) in november 2014, we issued $425 million of 4.875% senior notes and $425 million of 5.125% notes and used substantially all of the proceeds to retire the 8.125% senior notes due september 2019 . see note 11, debt and credit facilities for further information. loss on debt redemption 2014 in the fourth quarter 2014, we issued $425 million of 4.875% senior notes due december 1, 2022 and $425 million of 5.125% senior notes due december 1, 2024. the proceeds from these notes were used to repurchase the company's $750 million 8.125% senior notes due september 2019. the aggregate repurchase price was $837 million, which included the principal amount of $750 million, a premium of $75 million and accrued interest of $13 million. we recognized a total pre-tax loss of $84 million on the repurchase, which included the premiums mentioned above. also included in the loss on debt redemption was $9 million of accelerated amortization of original non-lender fees related to the 8.125% senior notes due september 2019. on july 25, 2014, we entered into a second restatement agreement (the second restatement agreement ) whereby our senior secured credit facility was amended and restated (the second amended and restated credit agreement ) with bank of america, n.a., as agent, and the other financial institutions party thereto. on august 29, 2014, we completed the $100 million delayed draw of the term loan a facility. in connection with this loan, we also entered into interest rate and currency swaps in a notional amount of $100 million, which convert our floating u.s. dollar denominated obligation under the term loan a into a fixed rate brazilian real denominated obligation. as a result of the second restatement agreement, we recognized $18 million of loss on debt redemption in our consolidated statements of operations. this amount includes $13 million of accelerated amortization of original issuance discount related to the term loan b and lender and non-lender fees related to the entire credit facility. also included in the loss on debt redemption was $5 million of non-lender fees incurred in connection with the second restatement agreement. in addition, we incurred $2 million of lender fees that are included in the carrying amounts of the outstanding debt under the credit facility. we also capitalized $5 million of non-lender fees that are included in other assets on our consolidated balance sheet. 2013 in november 2013, we amended our senior secured credit facility (the amended credit facility ). the amendment refinanced the term loan b facilities with a $525 million term loan b dollar tranche and a 128 million term loan b euro tranche. in connection therewith, among other things, (i) the interest margin on each tranche was decreased by 0.75%, and (ii) the minimum eurocurrency rate under the term loan b facilities was reduced from 1.00% to 0.75%. we prepaid $101 million and refinanced the remaining principal amount of $697 million of the euro and u.s. dollar denominated portions of the original term loan b at 100% of their face value. we recognized a $4 million pre-tax loss on debt redemption included in our results of operations for 2013, consisting of accelerated unamortized original issuance discount, unamortized fees, and fees associated with the transaction. in march 2013, we issued $425 million of 5.25% senior notes and used substantially all of the proceeds to retire the 7.875% senior notes due june 2017. we repurchased the 7.875% senior notes at fair value. the aggregate repurchase price was $431 million, which included the principal amount of $400 million, a 6% premium of $23 million and accrued interest of $8 million. we recognized a total net pre-tax loss of $32 million, which included the premiums mentioned above. 51 2012 in november 2012, we issued $425 million of 6.50% senior notes and used substantially all of the proceeds to retire the 5.625% senior notes due july 2013. we repurchased the 5.625% senior notes at fair value. the aggregate repurchase price was $421 million, which included the principal amount of $400 million, a 3% premium of $13 million and accrued interest of $8 million. we recognized a total net pre-tax loss of $12 million, which included the premiums mentioned above, less a gain of $1 million on the termination of a related interest rate swap. in november 2012, we amended and refinanced our senior secured credit facility to (a) reduce term loan b interest rates, (b) gain additional flexibility on the financial covenant, and (c) amend certain other terms. as a result, we recognized a non-cash pre-tax loss of $16 million for the accelerated unamortized original issuance discount of $9 million and the unamortized capitalized lender fees for $7 million. we also recorded new original issuance discount and non-lender fees for a total of $2 million, which are included in the carrying amount of the debt instruments. in addition, we recorded a non-cash pre-tax loss of $7 million of non-lender fees related to the transactions mentioned above. see note 11, debt and credit facilities for details of our debt transactions. impairment of equity method investments 2014 in 2014, we recognized an impairment of $6 million in connection with an equity method investment. this investment was not material to our consolidated financial position or results of operations. 2013 in 2013, we recognized an impairment of $2 million in connection with an equity method investment. this investment was not material to our consolidated financial position or results of operations. 2012 in september 2007, we established a joint venture that supports our food care segment. we account for the joint venture under the equity method of accounting with our proportionate share of net income or losses included in other expense, net, on the consolidated statements of operations. during the first half of 2012, the joint venture performed below expectations, resulting in reduced cash flow and increasing debt obligations. due to these events, we evaluated our equity method investment for impairment. during the three months ended june 30, 2012, based on reviewing undiscounted cash flow information, we determined that the fair value of our investment was less than its carrying value and that this impairment was other-than-temporary. as a result, we recorded a $4 million write-down of the carrying value of the investment to zero at june 30, 2012. in connection with the establishment of the joint venture in 2007, we issued a guarantee in support of an uncommitted credit facility agreement that was entered into by the joint venture. under the terms of the guarantee, if the joint venture were to default under the terms of the credit facility, the lender would be entitled to seek payment of the amounts due under the credit facility from us. as a result of the impairment, we believed it was probable we would need to perform under this guarantee and recorded a $20 million current liability in the second quarter of 2012, included in impairment of equity method investment on the consolidated statement of operations. the guarantee liability is reflected in other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 as we continue to believe it is probable that we will need to perform under this guarantee. as of december 31, 2014, the joint venture has performed its obligations under the terms of the credit facility and the lender has not requested that we perform under the terms of the guarantee. total charges recorded in the second quarter of 2012, were $26 million ($18 million, net of taxes, or $0.09 per diluted share), which included the guarantee of the uncommitted credit facility mentioned above of $20 million and the $4 million write-down of the carrying value of the investment to zero at june 30, 2012. we also recorded provisions for bad debt on receivables due from the joint venture to the company of $2 million, which is included in selling, general and administrative expenses. we have no additional obligations to support the operations of the joint venture in the future. the impairment and related provision for bad debt on receivables are considered special items and excluded from our adjusted ebitda results. 52 foreign currency exchange (losses) gains related to venezuelan subsidiaries effective january 1, 2010, venezuela was designated a highly inflationary economy. the foreign currency exchange gains and losses we recorded in 2014, 2013 and 2012 for our venezuelan subsidiary were the result of two factors: 1) the significant changes in the exchange rates used to settle bolivar-denominated transactions and 2) the significant changes in the exchange rates used to remeasure our venezuelan subsidiary's financial statements at the balance sheet date. we believe these gains and losses are attributable to the unstable foreign currency environment in venezuela. see venezuela in foreign exchange rates of item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, for further discussion on venezuela. gain from claims settlement on february 3, 2014, we entered into the settlement agreement. under the settlement agreement, we released and waived certain claims against the grace parties and the grace parties released and waived certain claims against us. as a result, we recognized a gain of $21 million in 2014, which consisted of the release of $17 million of certain tax liabilities and $4 million of other associated liabilities. see note 17 commitments and contingencies settlement agreement and related costs for more details on the settlement agreement. other expense, net see note 20, other expense, net, for the components and discussion of other expense, net. income taxes the table below shows our effective income tax rate from continuing operations ( etr ), as retrospectively changed to account for our change from lifo to fifo (see note 2). see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies inventories for additional details regarding this accounting policy change. year ended 2014 3.4 % 2013 47.1 % 2012 14.1 % our effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 3.4% for 2014. the primary reasons for our reduced tax rate were the following items: earnings in jurisdictions with low tax rates and losses in jurisdictions, such as the u.s., with high tax rates (13.2 percentage points) release of reserves due to favorable settlements, judicial verdicts and expiration of statute of limitations (8.7 percentage points) release of valuation allowances (5 percentage points) reduction in estimated cost with respect to undistributed foreign earnings (1.9 percentage points) our effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 47.1% for 2013, primarily due to our increase of approximately $50 million as a result of not funding the settlement agreement before the end of 2013. the delay in funding required us to increase our valuation allowance for the deferred tax asset related to the settlement agreement. excluding that increase, our tax rate would have been approximately 19%. our tax rate for the year benefited from earnings in jurisdictions with low tax rates and losses in jurisdictions, such as the u.s., with high tax rates, as well as various reorganizations and a retroactive reinstatement of certain tax provisions that were recorded as discrete items in 2013. on january 2, 2013, the president signed the american taxpayer relief act of 2012, retroactively reinstating and extending the research and development tax credit and certain foreign tax provisions from january 1, 2012 through december 31, 2013. we expect a core tax rate of approximately 25% in 2015. our effective income tax rate also depends on the realization of our deferred tax assets, net of our valuation allowances. our deferred tax assets include u.s. and foreign net operating loss carry forwards and investment tax allowances, foreign tax credits, accruals not yet deductible for tax purposes, employee benefit items, and other items. 53 we have established valuation allowances to reduce our deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets depends in part upon our ability to generate future taxable income during the periods in which these temporary differences reverse or our ability to carry back any losses created by the deduction of these temporary differences. we expect to realize these assets over an extended period. if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in the u.s. and certain foreign jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. conversely, if we have sufficient future taxable income in jurisdictions where we have valuation allowances, we may be able to reverse those valuation allowances. our largest deferred tax asset is comprised of net operating loss carry forwards. in 2014, we funded the settlement agreement and are carrying forward a portion of the amount we contributed to the trusts. we have additional net operating losses in various foreign jurisdictions. see note 16, income taxes, for a reconciliation of the u.s. federal statutory rate to our effective tax rate, which also shows the major components of the year over year changes and other tax information. liquidity and capital resources principal sources of liquidity our primary sources of cash are the collection of trade receivables generated from the sales of our products and services to our customers and amounts available under our existing lines of credit, including our amended credit facility, and our accounts receivable securitization programs. our primary uses of cash are payments for operating expenses, investments in working capital, capital expenditures, interest, taxes, dividends, debt obligations, restructuring expenses and other long-term liabilities. we believe that our current liquidity position and future cash flows from operations will enable us to fund our operations, including all of the items mentioned above in the next twelve months. on february 3, 2014, we funded the $930 million settlement agreement and accrued interest liability using cash on hand and committed liquidity. to fund the cash payment, we used $555 million of cash and cash equivalents and utilized borrowings of $260 million from our revolving credit facility and $115 million from our accounts receivable securitization programs. also, on february 14, 2014, we repaid our 12% senior notes on their maturity date with available cash on hand and committed liquidity. see note 11, debt and credit facilities, for further details. as of december 31, 2014, we had cash and cash equivalents of $323 million, of which approximately $312 million, or 97%, was located outside of the u.s. as of december 31, 2014, there were certain foreign government regulations restricting transfers on less than $40 million of the cash located outside of the u.s. as of december 31, 2014, our u.s. cash balances and committed liquidity facilities available to u.s. borrowers were sufficient to fund our u.s. operating requirements and capital expenditures, current debt obligations and dividends. the company does not expect that in the near term cash located outside of the u.s. will be needed to satisfy its obligations, dividends and other demands for cash in its u.s. operations. in connection with the funding of the settlement agreement in 2014, we repatriated cash from our international operations and incurred minimal cash taxes and no significant tax expense. material commitments and contingencies settlement agreement and related costs we recorded a pre-tax charge of $850 million in 2002, of which $513 million represented a cash payment that was due upon the effectiveness of a plan of reorganization in the bankruptcy of w. r. grace &amp; co. on february 3, 2014, upon grace's emergence from bankruptcy pursuant to a plan of reorganization, the settlement agreement was implemented and our subsidiary, cryovac, inc., made the payments contemplated by the settlement agreement, consisting of aggregate cash payments in the amount of $930 million to the pi trust and the pd trust and the transfer of 18 million shares of sealed air common stock (the settlement shares ) to the pi trust, in each case reflecting adjustments made in accordance with the settlement agreement. 54 on february 3, 2014, we funded the cash portion of the settlement payment by using $555 million of accumulated cash and cash equivalents and utilized borrowings of $260 million from our revolving credit facility and $115 million from our accounts receivable securitization programs. see principal sources of liquidity below. the cash payment of $513 million accrued interest at a 5.5% annual rate, which was compounded annually, from december 21, 2002 to the february 3, 2014 date of payment. this accrued interest was $413 million at december 31, 2013 and is recorded in settlement agreement and related accrued interest on our consolidated balance sheet. the total liability on our consolidated balance sheet was $925 million at december 31, 2013. in addition, the settlement agreement provided for the issuance of the 18 million settlement shares. since the impact of issuing the settlement shares was dilutive to our eps, under u.s. gaap, they were included in our diluted weighted average number of common shares outstanding in our calculation of eps to the extent that the impact of including these shares were dilutive. see note 21, net earnings (loss) per common share, for details of our calculation of eps. we are deducting the payment mentioned above in our 2014 consolidated u.s. income tax return. as a result, we have a net operating loss for u.s. tax purposes in 2014 and are carrying back, for 10 years, more than $1 billion of the loss. tax benefits resulting from the settlement agreement were recorded as a $247 million income tax receivable (including $38 million of additional paid in capital related to shares of common stock issued pursuant to the settlement agreement) and net deferred tax assets of $144 million for u.s. federal net operating losses and $31 million for state net operating loss carry forwards. the increase to additional paid-in capital on our consolidated balance sheet had no impact to our consolidated statements of operations. if we are unable to generate sufficient u.s. taxable income we could be required to increase our valuation allowance against this deferred tax asset and we may not realize the full cash tax benefit relating to this asset. this could result in a significant increase in our effective tax rate and could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in the periods in which these conditions occur. changes in statutory tax rates or other new legislation or regulation may also change our deferred tax assets or liability balances, with either favorable or unfavorable impacts on our effective tax rate. in the fourth quarter of 2013, we recorded an increase to the valuation allowance on our net deferred tax asset related to the settlement agreement, which resulted in an increase of approximately $50 million to our income tax provision (approximately $0.23 per diluted share). the information set forth in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k in note 17, commitments and contingencies, under the caption settlement agreement and related costs is incorporated herein by reference. cryovac transaction commitments and contingencies the information set forth in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k in note 17, commitments and contingencies, under the caption cryovac transaction commitments and contingencies is incorporated herein by reference. contractual obligations the following table summarizes our principal contractual obligations and sets forth the amounts of required or contingently required cash outlays in 2014 and future years: payments due by years (in millions) total 2015 2016-2017 2018-2019 thereafter contractual obligations short-term borrowings $ 130.4 $ 130.4 $ $ $ current portion of long-term debt exclusive of debt discounts and lender fees 1.1 1.1 long-term debt, exclusive of debt discounts and lender fees 4,294.6 369.8 1,023.3 2,901.5 total debt (1) 4,426.1 131.5 369.8 1,023.3 2,901.5 interest payments due on long-term debt (2) 1,853.7 220.6 434.1 407.4 791.6 operating leases 167.0 57.6 67.3 25.4 16.7 first quarter 2015 quarterly cash dividend declared 27.3 27.3 other principal contractual obligations 353.7 139.1 146.9 60.0 7.7 total contractual cash obligations $ 6,827.8 $ 576.1 $ 1,018.1 $ 1,516.1 $ 3,717.5 (1) these amounts include principal maturities (at face value) only. these amounts also include our contractual obligations under capital leases of $1 million in 2015, $1 million in 2016-2017 and less than $1 million in 2018-2019. 55 (2) includes interest payments required under our senior notes issuances and amended credit facility only. the interest payments included above for our term loan a were calculated using the following assumptions: interest rates based on stated rates based on libor as of december 31, 2014; all non-u.s. dollar balances are converted using exchange rates as of december 31, 2014; and obligations are repaid when due. current portion of long-term debt and long-term debt represents the principal amount of the debt required to be repaid in each period. operating leases the contractual operating lease obligations listed in the table above represent estimated future minimum annual rental commitments primarily under non-cancelable real and personal property leases as of december 31, 2014. other principal contractual obligations other principal contractual obligations include agreements to purchase an estimated amount of goods, including raw materials, or services, including energy, in the normal course of business. these obligations are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, minimum or variable price provisions and the approximate timing of the purchase. the amounts included in the table above represent estimates of the minimum amounts we are obligated to pay, or reasonably likely to pay under these agreements. we may purchase additional goods or services above the minimum requirements of these obligations and, as a result use additional cash. liability for unrecognized tax benefits at december 31, 2014, we had liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties of $217 million, most of which is included in other liabilities and the remaining balance is included as a reduction to deferred tax assets on our consolidated balance sheet. at december 31, 2014, we cannot reasonably estimate the future period or periods of cash settlement of these liabilities. see note 16, income taxes, for further discussion. off-balance sheet arrangements we have reviewed our off-balance sheet arrangements and have determined that none of those arrangements has a material current effect or is reasonably likely to have a material future effect on our consolidated financial statements, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. income tax payments we currently expect to pay between $100 million and $120 million of income taxes in 2015. contributions to defined benefit pension plans we maintain defined benefit pension plans for some of our u.s. and our non-u.s. employees. we currently expect our contributions to these plans to be approximately $23 million in 2015. environmental matters we are subject to loss contingencies resulting from environmental laws and regulations, and we accrue for anticipated costs associated with investigatory and remediation efforts when an assessment has indicated that a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. these accruals do not take into account any discounting for the time value of money and are not reduced by potential insurance recoveries, if any. we do not believe that it is reasonably possible that the liability in excess of the amounts that we have accrued for environmental matters will be material to our consolidated financial position and results of operations. we reassess environmental liabilities whenever circumstances become better defined or we can better estimate remediation efforts and their costs. we evaluate these liabilities periodically based on available information, including the progress of remedial investigations at each site, the current status of discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the methods and extent of remediation and the apportionment of costs among potentially responsible parties. as some of these issues are decided (the outcomes of which are subject to uncertainties) or new sites are assessed and costs can be reasonably estimated, we adjust the recorded accruals, as necessary. we believe that these exposures are not material to our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we believe that we have adequately reserved for all probable and estimable environmental exposures. 56 cash and cash equivalents the following table summarizes our accumulated cash and cash equivalents: december 31, december 31, (in millions) 2014 2013 cash and cash equivalents $ 322.6 $ 992.4 see analysis of historical cash flows below. accounts receivable securitization programs at december 31, 2014, we had $192 million available to us under the programs of which we had $36 million outstanding at december 31, 2014. we did not utilize these programs in 2013 and 2012. see note 8, accounts receivable securitization programs, for information concerning these programs. lines of credit we have a $700 million revolving credit facility. in 2014, we utilized borrowings under this facility and had $23 million outstanding at december 31, 2014. there were no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility at december 31, 2013. in july 2014, we amended and restated our senior secured credit facilities, including the revolving credit facility. see note 11, debt and credit facilities, for further details. there was $71 million and $82 million outstanding under various lines of credit extended to our international subsidiaries at december 31, 2014 and december 31, 2013, respectively. see note 11, debt and credit facilities, for further details. covenants at december 31, 2014 and 2013, we were in compliance with our financial covenants and limitations, as discussed in covenants of note 11, debt and credit facilities. debt ratings our cost of capital and ability to obtain external financing may be affected by our debt ratings, which the credit rating agencies review periodically. below is a table that details our credit ratings by the various types of debt by rating agency. moody's investor standard services &amp; poor's corporate rating ba3 bb senior unsecured rating b1 bb senior secured credit facility rating ba1 bb+ outlook stable stable these credit ratings are considered to be below investment grade. if our credit ratings are downgraded, there could be a negative impact on our ability to access capital markets and borrowing costs could increase. a credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 57 outstanding indebtedness at december 31, 2014 and 2013, our total debt outstanding consisted of the amounts set forth in the following table. december 31, (in millions) 2014 2013 short-term borrowings $ 130.4 $ 81.6 current portion of long-term debt 1.1 201.5 total current debt 131.5 283.1 total long-term debt, less current portion 4,282.5 4,116.4 total debt $ 4,414.0 $ 4,399.5 see note 11, debt and credit facilities, for further details. analysis of historical cash flow the following table shows the changes in our consolidated cash flows from continuing operations in the three years ended december 31, 2014. year ended december 31, (in millions) 2014 2013 2012 net cash (used in) provided by operating activities from continuing operations $ (201.9 ) $ 624.8 $ 394.2 net cash (used in) investing activities from continuing operations (141.5 ) (105.5 ) (114.9 ) net cash (used in) financing activities from continuing operations (304.1 ) (319.8 ) (585.1 ) net cash (used in) provided by operating activities 2014 net cash used in operating activities from continuing operations of $202 million in 2014 was primarily attributable to: $930 million used to fund the cash portion of the settlement agreement; and $38 million of excess tax benefit related to the 18 million shares of our common stock issued pursuant to the settlement agreement. $119 million of changes in operating assets and liabilities, primarily reflecting an increase in income tax receivables related to the settlement agreement, as well as an increase in inventories, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable. this activity reflects the timing of inventory purchases and the related payments of cash along with the timing of certain annual incentive compensation payments and interest payments and the seasonality of sales and collections. partially offset by: net earnings adjusted to reconcile to net cash provided by operating activities of $847 million, including adjustments for depreciation and amortization of $321 million, profit sharing expense of $37 million, and loss on debt redemption and refinancing activities of $103 million, partially offset by gain on settlement agreement $(21) million; 2013 net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations in 2013 of $625 million was primarily attributable to net earnings adjusted to reconcile to net cash provided by operating activities of $514 million, which primarily included adjustments for depreciation and amortization, share-based incentive compensation expenses, profit sharing expense and loss on debt redemption; and net changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted in net cash provided by operating activities of $111 million in 2013, primarily in trade receivables, net, inventories and accounts payable. in 2013, we reduced our day sales outstanding by three days, reduced our inventory days on hand by four days, and increased our days payables outstanding by two days. 58 2012 net cash provided by continuing operating activities in 2012 of $394 million was primarily attributable to: net earnings adjusted to reconcile to net cash provided by operating activities of $405 million, which primarily included adjustments for depreciation and amortization, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, share-based incentive compensation expenses, profit sharing expenses impairment of equity method investment and deferred taxes. in 2012, our adjustments to reconcile net earnings (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations included a $319 million change in net deferred taxes. this amount primarily related to the impact of the deferred taxes recorded in connection with the non-cash impairment of other intangible assets, which is included in adjustments to reconcile net earnings (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations to offset the impact of the non-cash tax benefit that is included in net (loss) earnings available to common stockholders from continuing operations; and net cash provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted in a net cash use of $11 million in 2012. net cash used in investing activities 2014 net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations in 2014 of $142 million primarily consisted of capital expenditures of $154 million related to capacity expansions to support growth in net sales. capital expenditures related to our restructuring programs was $29 million in 2014. 2013 net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations in 2013 of $106 million primarily consisted of capital expenditures of $116 million, related to capacity expansions to support growth in net sales. capital expenditure related to our restructuring programs was $25 million in 2013. 2012 in 2012, we used net cash of $115 million in investing activities, which was primarily due to capital expenditures of $123 million. we expect to continue to invest capital as we deem appropriate to expand our business, to maintain or replace depreciating property, plant and equipment, to acquire new manufacturing technology and to improve productivity and net sales growth. we expect total capital expenditures in 2015 to be approximately $180 million, which include capital expenditures for restructuring programs. this projection is based upon our capital expenditure budget for 2015, the status of approved but not yet completed capital projects, anticipated future projects and historic spending trends. net cash used in financing activities 2014 net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was primarily due to the following: repayment of $750 million of our 8.125% senior notes, and $75 million of premium; repayment of $695 million of term loan b; repurchase of common stock of $184 million; repayment of $150 million of our 12% senior notes; payments of quarterly dividends of $111 million; repayments of $50 million of term loan a; and debt issuance cost of $24 million. 59 these factors were partially offset by: net proceeds from term loan a of $787 million as part of the amendment and restatement of the senior secured credit facilities; proceeds from issuance of $425 million of 4.875% senior notes and $425 million of 5.125% senior notes; an excess tax benefit of $38 million related to the 18 million shares of common stock issued pursuant to the settlement agreement; net proceeds from borrowings under our accounts receivable securitization programs of $36 million; and net proceeds from borrowing under our revolving credit facility of $23 million. 2013 net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was primarily due to the following: repurchase of $400 million on 7.875% senior notes due june 2017 for $431 million; prepayments of $152 million on term loan a; prepayments of $104 million on term loan b; and payments of $102 million of quarterly dividends. these factors were partially offset by issuance of $425 million of 5.25% senior notes due april 2023 and short term borrowings of $53 million. 2012 net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to the following: repurchase of $400 million on 5.625% senior notes due july 2013 for $421 million; prepayments of $185 million on term loan a; prepayments of $1.1 billion on term loan b; and payments of $101 million of quarterly dividends, partially offset by: issuance of $425 million of 6.50% senior notes due december 2020. refinancing of $80 million of term loan a; and refinancing of $801 million on term loan b. free cash flow in addition to net cash provided by operating activities, we use free cash flow as a useful measure of performance and as an indication of the strength and ability of our operations to generate cash. we define free cash flow as cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures (which is classified as an investing activity). free cash flow is not defined under u.s. gaap. therefore, it should not be considered a substitute for net income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. free cash flow does not represent residual cash available for discretionary expenditures, including certain debt servicing requirements or non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from this measure. we typically generate the majority of our annual free cash flow in the second half of the year. below find details of free cash flow for three years ended december 31. year ended december 31, 2014 vs. 2013 2013 vs. 2012 (in millions) 2014 2013 2012 change change cash flow (used in) provided by operating activities -continuing operations $ (201.9 ) $ 624.8 $ 394.2 $ (826.7 ) $ 230.6 capital expenditures (153.9 ) (116.0 ) (122.8 ) (37.9 ) 6.8 free cash flow (1) $ (355.8 ) $ 508.8 $ 271.4 $ (864.6 ) $ 237.4 (1) free cash flow was $612 million in 2014 excluding the payment of the settlement agreement of $930 million and excess tax benefit of $38 million related to shares of common stock issued pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement. 60 changes in working capital december 31, december 31, (in millions) 2014 2013 change working capital (current assets less current liabilities) $ 960.7 $ 758.7 $ 202.0 current ratio (current assets divided by current liabilities) 1.6 x 1.3 x quick ratio (current assets, less inventories divided by current liabilities) 1.2 x 1.0 x the $202 million, or 27%, increase in working capital in the year ended december 31, 2014 was primarily due to cash flow from operations, $38 million of excess tax benefit related to the 18 million shares of our common stock issued pursuant to the settlement agreement, and reclassification of $27 million from property, plant and equipment to assets held for sale, which primarily related to agreement for purchase and sale relating to our building located in racine, wisconsin. see note 9, restructuring and relocation activities for further details. changes in stockholders' equity the $254 million, or 18%, decrease in stockholders' equity in 2014 compared with 2013 was primarily due to: cumulative translation adjustment of $248 million; a net increase in treasury stock of $154 million primarily due to the repurchase of common stock into treasury stock of $184 million, partially offset by the transfer of common stock from treasury stock of $33 million related to our 2013 profit sharing plan contribution made in the first quarter of 2014; and dividends paid and accrued on our common stock of $112 million; and increase of $90 million of unrecognized pension items, primarily related to a reduction in the discount rate used to value our pension liabilities. see note 14, profit sharing retirement savings plans and defined benefit pension plans for additional information on our pension plans. partially offset by: net earnings of $258 million; increase of $54 million in additional paid in capital due to share-based incentive compensation; and $38 million of excess tax benefit related to shares of our common stock issued pursuant to the settlement agreement. in the fourth quarter of 2014, we recorded an excess tax benefit of $38 million related to the settlement agreement resulting from an increase in the price of the company's common stock related to the 18 million shares reserved for issuance pursuant to the settlement agreement in 2002, until its settlement on february 3, 2014. the tax benefit was recorded to additional paid-in capital on our consolidated balance sheet and did not impact net earnings. the company repurchased approximately 5.4 million shares of its common stock in 2014 for $184 million at an average price of $34 per share. this includes approximately 1.5 million shares purchased under 10b5-1 share trading plans for $54 million at an average price of $36 per share and approximately 3.9 million shares for $130 million at an average price of $33 per share purchased from the wrg asbestos pi trust in the second quarter 2014. derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps the information set forth in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k in note 12, derivatives and hedging activities, under the caption interest rate swaps is incorporated herein by reference. interest rate and currency swaps the information set forth in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k in note 12, derivatives and hedging activities, under the caption interest rate and currency swaps is incorporated herein by reference. 61 foreign currency forward contracts at december 31, 2014, we were party to foreign currency forward contracts, which did not have a significant impact on our liquidity. the information set forth in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k in note 12, derivatives and hedging activities, under the caption foreign currency forward contracts is incorporated herein by reference. for further discussion about these contracts and other financial instruments, see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. recently issued statements of financial accounting standards, accounting guidance and disclosure requirements we are subject to numerous recently issued statements of financial accounting standards, accounting guidance and disclosure requirements. note 2, summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards, which is contained in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k, describes these new accounting standards and is incorporated herein by reference. critical accounting policies and estimates our discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap. the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. our estimates and assumptions are evaluated on an ongoing basis and are based on all available evidence, including historical experience and other factors believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. to derive these estimates and assumptions, management draws from those available sources that can best contribute to its efforts. these sources include our officers and other employees, outside consultants and legal counsel, third-party experts and actuaries. in addition, we use internally generated reports and statistics, such as aging of trade receivables, as well as outside sources such as government statistics, industry reports and third-party research studies. the results of these estimates and assumptions may form the basis of the carrying value of assets and liabilities and may not be readily apparent from other sources. actual results may differ from estimates under conditions and circumstances different from those assumed, and any such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. we believe the following accounting policies are critical to understanding our consolidated results of operations and affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. the critical accounting policies discussed below should be read together with our significant accounting policies set forth in note 2, summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards. accounts receivable and allowance for doubtful accounts in the normal course of business, we extend credit to our customers if they satisfy pre-defined credit criteria. we maintain an accounts receivable allowance for estimated losses resulting from the likelihood of failure of our customers to make required payments. an additional allowance may be required if the financial condition of our customers deteriorates. the allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that management assesses to be appropriate to absorb estimated losses in the accounts receivable portfolio. the allowance for doubtful accounts is reviewed at a minimum quarterly, and changes to the allowance are made through the provision for bad debts, which is included in selling, general and administrative expenses on our consolidated statements of operations. these changes may reflect changes in economic, business and market conditions. the allowance is increased by the provision for bad debts and decreased by the amount of charge-offs, net of recoveries. the provision for bad debts charged against operating results is based on several factors including, but not limited to, a regular assessment of the collectability of specific customer balances, the length of time a receivable is past due and our historical experience with our customers. in circumstances where a specific customer's inability to meet its financial obligations is known, we record a specific provision for bad debt against amounts due thereby reducing the receivable to the amount we reasonably assess will be collected. if circumstances change, such as higher than expected defaults or an unexpected material adverse change in a major customer's ability to pay, our estimates of recoverability could be reduced by a material amount. 62 fair value measurements of financial instruments in determining fair value of financial instruments, we utilize valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs to the extent possible and consider counterparty credit risk in our assessment of fair value. we determine fair value of our financial instruments based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability in the principal or most advantageous market. when considering market participant assumptions in fair value measurements, the following fair value hierarchy distinguishes between observable and unobservable inputs, which are categorized in one of the following levels: level 1 inputs: unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities accessible to the reporting entity at the measurement date. level 2 inputs: other than quoted prices included in level 1 inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. level 3 inputs: unobservable inputs for the asset or liability used to measure fair value to the extent that observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at measurement date. our fair value measurements for our financial instruments are subjective and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment. changes in assumptions could significantly affect our estimates. see note 13, fair value measurements and other financial instruments, for further details on our fair value measurements. commitments and contingencies litigation on an ongoing basis, we assess the potential liabilities and costs related to any lawsuits or claims brought against us. we accrue a liability when we believe a loss is probable and when the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. litigation proceedings are evaluated on a case-by-case basis considering the available information, including that received from internal and outside legal counsel, to assess potential outcomes. while it is typically very difficult to determine the timing and ultimate outcome of these actions, we use our best judgment to determine if it is probable that we will incur an expense related to the settlement or final adjudication of these matters and whether a reasonable estimation of the probable loss, if any, can be made. in assessing probable losses, we consider insurance recoveries, if any. we expense legal costs, including those legal costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency, as incurred. we have in the past adjusted existing accruals as proceedings have continued, been settled or otherwise provided further information on which we could review the likelihood of outflows of resources and their measurability, and we expect to do so in future periods. due to the inherent uncertainties related to the eventual outcome of litigation and potential insurance recovery, it is possible that disputed matters may be resolved for amounts materially different from any provisions or disclosures that we have previously made. impairment of long-lived assets for finite-lived intangible assets, such as customer relationships, contracts and intellectual property, and for other long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment, whenever impairment indicators are present, we perform a review for impairment. we calculate the undiscounted value of the projected cash flows associated with the asset, or asset group, and compare this estimated amount to the carrying amount. if the carrying amount is found to be greater, we record an impairment loss for the excess of book value over the fair value. in addition, in all cases of an impairment review, we re-evaluate the remaining useful lives of the assets and modify them as appropriate. for indefinite lived intangible assets, such as in-process research and development and trademarks and trade names, each year and whenever impairment indicators are present, we determine the fair value of the asset and record an impairment loss for the excess of book value over fair value, if any. in addition, in all cases of an impairment review other than for in-process research and development assets, we re-evaluate whether continuing to characterize the asset as indefinite lived is appropriate. goodwill goodwill is reviewed for possible impairment at least annually on a reporting unit level during the fourth quarter of each year. a review of goodwill may be initiated before or after conducting the annual analysis if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable. a reporting unit is the operating segment unless, at businesses one level below that operating segment the component level discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management, and the component has economic characteristics that are different from the economic characteristics of the other components of the operating segment, in which case the component is the reporting unit. 63 while we are permitted to conduct a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is necessary to perform a two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test, for our annual goodwill impairment test in the fourth quarter of 2014 and in 2013, we performed a quantitative test for all of our reporting units. the goodwill impairment test involves a two-step process. in step one, we compare the fair value of each of our reporting units with goodwill to its carrying value, including the goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. if the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, there is no indication of impairment and no further testing is required. if the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value, we must perform step two of the impairment test to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. in step two, the reporting unit's fair value is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, including any unrecognized intangible assets, in a hypothetical analysis that calculates the implied fair value of goodwill in the same manner as if the reporting unit were being acquired in a business combination. if the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill is less than the carrying value, the difference is recorded as an impairment loss. we use a fair value approach to test goodwill for impairment. we must recognize a non-cash impairment charge for the amount, if any, by which the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. we derive an estimate of fair values for each of our reporting units using a combination of an income approach and appropriate market approaches, each based on an applicable weighting. we assess the applicable weighting based on such factors as current market conditions and the quality and reliability of the data. absent an indication of fair value from a potential buyer or similar specific transactions, we believe that the use of these methods provides a reasonable estimate of a reporting unit's fair value. fair value computed by these methods is arrived at using a number of factors, including projected future operating results, anticipated future cash flows, effective income tax rates, comparable marketplace data within a consistent industry grouping, and the cost of capital. there are inherent uncertainties, however, related to these factors and to our judgment in applying them to this analysis. nonetheless, we believe that the combination of these methods provides a reasonable approach to estimate the fair value of our reporting units. assumptions for sales, net earnings and cash flows for each reporting unit were consistent among these methods. income approach used to determine fair values the income approach is based upon the present value of expected cash flows. expected cash flows are converted to present value using factors that consider the timing and risk of the future cash flows. the estimate of cash flows used is prepared on an unleveraged debt-free basis. we use a discount rate that reflects a market-derived weighted average cost of capital. we believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon the reporting unit's expected long-term operating and cash flow performance. the projections are based upon our best estimates of projected economic and market conditions over the related period including growth rates, estimates of future expected changes in operating margins and cash expenditures. other significant estimates and assumptions include terminal value long-term growth rates, provisions for income taxes, future capital expenditures and changes in future cashless, debt-free working capital. 2014 annual goodwill impairment test critical assumptions that the company used in performing the income approach for its reporting units included the following: applying a compounded annual growth rate for forecasted sales in our projected cash flows through 2017. reporting unit compounded annual growth rate diversey care 3.9 % food care - hygiene solutions 6.0 % food care - packaging solutions 4.1 % product care 3.4 % medical applications 16.3 % 64 applying a terminal value growth rate of 3% for all of our reporting units to reflect our estimate of stable and perpetual growth. determining an appropriate discount rate to apply to our projected cash flow results. this discount rate reflects, among other things, certain risks due to the uncertainties of achieving the cash flow results and the growth rates assigned. the discount rates applied were as follows: reporting unit discount rate diversey care 9.8 % food care - hygiene solutions 10.2 % food care - packaging solutions 8.9 % product care 9.4 % medical applications 16.3 % a weighting of the results of the income approach of 80% of our overall fair value calculation for each reporting unit. changes in any of these assumptions could materially impact the estimated fair value of our reporting units. our forecasts take into account the near and long-term expected business performance, considering the long-term market conditions and business trends within the reporting units. for further discussion of the factors that could result in a change in our assumptions, see risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k and our other filings with the sec. market approaches used to determine fair values each year we consider various relevant market approaches that could be used to determine fair value. the first market approach estimates the fair value of the reporting unit by applying multiples of operating performance measures to the reporting unit's operating performance (the public company method ). these multiples are derived from comparable publicly-traded companies with similar investment characteristics to the reporting unit, and such comparables are reviewed and updated as needed annually. we believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate using multiples from entities with operations and economic characteristics comparable to our reporting units and the company. the second market approach is based on the publicly traded common stock of the company, and the estimate of fair value of the reporting unit is based on the applicable multiples of the company (the quoted price method ). the third market approach is based on recent mergers and acquisitions of comparable publicly-traded and privately-held companies in our industries (the mergers and acquisition method ). the key estimates and assumptions that are used to determine fair value under these market approaches include trailing and future 12-month operating performance results and the selection of the relevant multiples to be applied. under the public company and the quoted price methods, a control premium, or an amount that a buyer is usually willing to pay over the current market price of a publicly traded company, is applied to the calculated equity values to adjust the public trading value upward for a 100% ownership interest, where applicable. in order to assess the reasonableness of the calculated fair values of our reporting units, we also compare the sum of the reporting units' fair values to our market capitalization and calculate an implied control premium (the excess of the sum of the reporting units' fair values over the market capitalization). we evaluate the control premium by comparing it to control premiums of recent comparable market transactions. if the implied control premium is not reasonable in light of these recent transactions, we will reevaluate our fair value estimates of the reporting units by adjusting the discount rates and/or other assumptions. for the fourth quarter 2012 interim goodwill impairment review and the 2013 and 2014 annual goodwill impairment review of the diversey care and hygiene solutions reporting units, we evaluated each of the above market approaches and determined that the public company and quoted price methods provided the most reliable measures of fair value because they were deemed to be a reliable proxy for the diversey care and hygiene solutions reporting units. we applied a combined weighting of 20% to the two market approaches when determining the fair value of each of the reporting units. for the 2013 and 2014 annual goodwill impairment review of the packaging solutions, product care and medical applications reporting units, we also evaluated each of the above market approaches and determined that the public company, the quoted price and the mergers and acquisition methods provided the most reliable measures of fair value because they were deemed to be a reliable proxy for these reporting units. we applied a combined weighting of 20% to the three market approaches when determining the fair value of these reporting units. 65 if our assumptions and related estimates change in the future, or if we change our reporting unit structure or other events and circumstances change (such as a sustained decrease in the price of our common stock, a decline in current market multiples, a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climates, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, heightened competition, strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions or a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of), we may be required to record impairment charges in future periods. any impairment charges that we may take in the future could be material to our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. in order to evaluate the sensitivity of the estimated fair values of our reporting units in the goodwill impairment test, we applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit. this hypothetical 10% decrease resulted in an excess of fair value over carrying amount ranging from approximately 30% to approximately 699% of the carrying amounts. we will continue to monitor goodwill on an annual basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as significant adverse changes in business climate or operating results, changes in management's business strategy or significant declines in our stock price, indicate that there may be potential indicator of impairment. see note 7, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, for details of our goodwill balance and the goodwill review performed in 2014, 2013 and 2012 and other related information. pensions for a number of our u.s. employees and our international employees, we maintain defined benefit pension plans. under current accounting standards, we are required to make assumptions regarding the valuation of projected benefit obligations and the performance of plan assets for our defined benefit pension plans. the projected benefit obligation and the net periodic benefit cost are based on third-party actuarial assumptions and estimates that are reviewed and approved by management on a plan-by-plan basis each fiscal year. the principal assumptions concern the discount rate used to measure the projected benefit obligation, the expected future rate of return on plan assets and the expected rate of future compensation increases. we revise these assumptions based on an annual evaluation of long-term trends and market conditions that may have an impact on the cost of providing retirement benefits. in determining the discount rate, we utilize market conditions and other data sources management considers reasonable based upon the profile of the remaining service life of eligible employees. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is determined by taking into consideration the weighted-average expected return on our asset allocation, asset return data, historical return data, and the economic environment. we believe these considerations provide the basis for reasonable assumptions of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. the rate of compensation increase is based on our long-term plans for such increases. the measurement date used to determine the benefit obligation and plan assets is december 31 for all material plans (november 30 for non-material plans). at december 31, 2014, the total projected benefit obligation for our u.s. pension plans was $221 million, and the total benefit income for the year ended december 31, 2014 was $1 million. at december 31, 2014, the total projected benefit obligation for our international pension plans was $1.1 billion, and the total benefit cost for the year ended december 31, 2014 was $17 million. in general, material changes to the principal assumptions could have a material impact on the costs and liabilities recognized on our consolidated financial statements. a 25 basis point change in the assumed discount rate and a 100 basis point change in the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets would have resulted in the following increases (decreases) in the projected benefit obligation at december 31, 2014 and the expected net periodic benefit cost for the year ending december 31, 2015 (in millions). united states 25 basis point increase (in millions) 25 basis point decrease (in millions) discount rate effect on 2014 projected benefit obligation $ (5.8 ) $ 6.1 effect on 2015 expected net periodic benefit cost 100 basis point increase (in millions) 100 basis point decrease (in millions) return on assets effect on 2015 expected net periodic benefit cost $ (1.8 ) $ 1.8 66 international 25 basis point increase (in millions) 25 basis point decrease (in millions) discount rate effect on 2014 projected benefit obligation $ (51.5 ) $ 54.9 effect on 2015 expected net periodic benefit cost (2.0 ) 2.3 100 basis point increase (in millions) 100 basis point decrease (in millions) return on assets effect on 2015 expected net periodic benefit cost $ (8.6 ) $ 8.6 income taxes estimates and judgments are required in the calculation of tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of our deferred tax assets. our deferred tax assets arise from net deductible temporary differences, tax benefit carry forwards and foreign tax credits. we evaluate whether our taxable earnings during the periods when the temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets become deductible or when tax benefit carry forwards may be utilized should be sufficient to realize the related future income tax benefits. for those jurisdictions where the expiration dates of tax benefit carry forwards or the projected taxable earnings indicate that realization is not likely, we provide a valuation allowance. in assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable earnings, with consideration for the feasibility of ongoing planning strategies and the realizability of tax benefit carry forwards and past operating results, to determine which deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized in the future. changes to tax laws, statutory tax rates and future taxable earnings can have an impact on valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets. in the event that actual results differ from these estimates in future periods, we may need to adjust the valuation allowance, which could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. in calculating our worldwide provision for income taxes, we also evaluate our tax positions for years where the statutes of limitations have not expired. based on this review, we may establish reserves for additional taxes and interest that could be assessed upon examination by relevant tax authorities. we adjust these reserves to take into account changing facts and circumstances, including the results of tax audits and changes in tax law. if the payment of additional taxes and interest ultimately proves unnecessary or less than the amount of the reserve, the reversal of the reserves would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the reserves are no longer necessary. if an estimate of tax reserves proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to income tax provision would result. these adjustments to reserves and related expenses could materially affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. we recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. the tax benefits recognized in the consolidated financial statements from such positions are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon settlement with tax authorities. see note 16, income taxes, for further discussion. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in the conditions in the global financial markets, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices and the creditworthiness of our customers and suppliers, which may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we seek to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. we do not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rates from time to time, we may use interest rate swaps, collars or options to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. at december 31, 2014, we had no outstanding interest rate swaps and no outstanding interest rate collars or options. the information set forth in item 8 of part ii of this annual report on form 10-k in note 12, derivatives and hedging activities, under the caption interest rate swaps, is incorporated herein by reference. 67 see note 13, fair value measurements and other financial instruments, for details of the methodology and inputs used to determine the fair value of our fixed rate debt. the fair value of our fixed rate debt varies with changes in interest rates. generally, the fair value of fixed rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease of $113 million in the fair value of the total debt balance at december 31, 2014. these changes in the fair value of our fixed rate debt do not alter our obligations to repay the outstanding principal amount or any related interest of such debt. foreign exchange rates operations as a large global organization, we face exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could materially impact our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in the future. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, above for the impacts foreign currency translation had on our operations. venezuela economic and political events in venezuela have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risk. effective january 1, 2010, venezuela was designated a highly inflationary economy under u.s. gaap, and the u.s. dollar replaced the bolivar fuerte as the functional currency for our subsidiaries in venezuela. accordingly, all bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities were re-measured into u.s. dollars using the then current exchange rate available to us, and any changes in the exchange rate were reflected in foreign currency exchange gains and losses related to our venezuelan subsidiaries on the consolidated statements of operations. on february 8, 2013, the venezuelan government announced a devaluation of the bolivar exchange rate from 4.3 bolivars to the u.s. dollar to 6.3 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. we used this official exchange rate of 6.3 bolivars to the u.s. dollar to re-measure the bolivar-denominated assets and liabilities of our venezuelan subsidiaries for u.s. gaap financial statement presentation as of december 31, 2013. as a result of the changes in the exchange rates, we recognized a pretax loss of $13 million in 2013 due to the remeasurement of our venezuelan subsidiaries' financial statements and the impact due to the settlement of bolivar-denominated transactions. on march 18, 2013, the venezuelan government announced the creation of an alternative foreign currency mechanism called the supplementary foreign currency administration system, known as the sicad. during december 2013, the venezuelan government issued a new rule allowing the central bank to publish the average sicad rate (previously it was prohibited by law to publish any rate different from the official exchange rate) which was 11.3 bolivars per u.s. dollar. as stated above, at december 31, 2013 we re-measured our venezuelan subsidiaries financial statements using the official exchange rate of 6.3 bolivars to the u.s. dollar since we were not eligible to use the sicad rate at that time. in january 2014, the government expanded the use of sicad and created a new agency called the national center of foreign commerce or cencoex which replaced the commission for the administration of foreign exchange or cadivi. in february 2014, the government opened a new exchange control mechanism called sicad 2, which would allow for more exchanges of u.s. dollars and allow more companies the ability to obtain u.s. dollars, including for dividend remittances. this market began to operate on march 24, 2014. therefore, there were four legal mechanisms to exchange bolivars for u.s. dollars depending on each company's facts and circumstances: cencoex at the official rate of 6.3; cencoex at the latest published sicad auction rate; sicad 1 auction process at the awarded exchange rate; and sicad 2 at the negotiated exchange rate. during 2014, we evaluated which legal mechanisms were available to each venezuelan subsidiary to access u.s. dollars and also estimated the excess cash position over the next 18 months. we concluded that as of december 31, 2014 the excess cash position for our venezuelan subsidiaries would be remeasured at the sicad 2 rate, which was 49.9883 at december 31, 2014, since that would be the only mechanism available to access u.s. dollars to be able to make a dividend payment. for the remaining bolivar- 68 denominated cash balances and all other bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities, we determined that since we still had access to and were receiving u.s. dollars via the cencoex official rate of 6.3 we continued to remeasure these items at that rate as of december 31, 2014. for any u.s. dollar denominated monetary asset or liability such amounts do not get remeasured at month-end since it is already an asset or liability denominated in u.s. dollars. however, such amounts were considered and included in the excess cash analysis and an evaluation of the applicable exchange mechanism such amounts could be obtained or settled at was considered. as a result of this evaluation, the company reported a remeasurement loss of $20 million in 2014. we will continue to evaluate each reporting period the appropriate exchange rate to re-measure our financial statements based on the facts and circumstances at that time. for the year ended december 31, 2014, about 1% of our consolidated net sales and operating income were derived from our businesses in venezuela. as of december 31, 2014, we had net assets of $35 million in venezuela, which primarily consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $20 million. also, as of december 31, 2014, our venezuelan subsidiaries had a negative cumulative translation adjustment balance of $46 million. in february 2015, the venezuelan government announced a new foreign exchange platform called the marginal currency system or simadi. the simadi will replace the sicad 2 rate as noted above. when this market opened on february 12, 2015 the rate was 170.0390. the sicad 1 auction process noted above will continue to hold periodic auctions for specific sectors of the economy. the opening rate is expected to be 12 for the sicad 1. in addition, the cencoex will continue and provide preferential treatment for certain import operations such as food and medicines. the ongoing impact of the recent announcements and our ability to restore net sales and profit to levels achieved prior to the recent devaluations will be impacted by several factors. these include our ability to access the various legal mechanisms to exchange bolivars for u.s. dollars including the new simadi platform, any potential future devaluation of the exchange rates, any further venezuelan government price or exchange controls, economic conditions and the availability of raw materials and utilities. in addition, depending on the future availability of u.s. dollars at the cencoex rate, our local u.s. dollar needs, our overall repatriation plans, including our ability to obtain government approval for the payment of dividends, which has been limited in recent years, the creditworthiness of the local depository institutions and other creditors and our ability to collect amounts due from customers and the government, including vat receivables, we may have exposure for our local monetary assets. we continue to evaluate the impact these recent changes will have on our consolidated financial statements, which could be material. argentina recent economic events in argentina, including the default on some of its international debt obligations, have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risks. however, as of december 31, 2014, we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact to our 2015 outlook discussed above. for 2014, about 2% of our consolidated net sales and operating income were derived from our businesses in argentina. as of december 31, 2014, we had net assets of $22 million (including $1 million of cash and cash equivalents) in argentina. foreign currency forward contracts we use foreign currency forward contracts to fix the amounts payable or receivable on some transactions denominated in foreign currencies. a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates at december 31, 2014 would have caused us to pay approximately $97 million to terminate these contracts. based on our overall foreign exchange exposure, we estimate this change would not materially affect our financial position and liquidity. the effect on our results of operations would be substantially offset by the impact of the hedged items. our foreign currency forward contracts are described in note 12, derivatives and hedging activities, which is contained in part ii, item 8, and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources derivative financial instruments foreign currency forward contracts, contained in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k, which information is incorporated herein by reference. we may use other derivative instruments from time to time, such as foreign exchange options to manage exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rate and currency swaps related to certain financing transactions. these instruments can potentially limit foreign exchange exposure and limit or adjust interest rate exposure by swapping borrowings denominated in one currency for borrowings denominated in another currency. at december 31, 2014, we had no foreign exchange options outstanding. 69 interest rate and currency swap in connection with exercising the $100 million delayed draw under the senior secured credit facility, we entered into a series of interest rate and currency swaps. these swaps convert the u.s dollar denominated variable rate obligation under the credit facility into a fixed rate brazilian real denominated obligation. the delayed draw and the interest rate and currency swaps are used to fund expansion and general corporate purposes of our brazilian subsidiaries. outstanding debt our outstanding debt is generally denominated in the functional currency of the borrower. we believe that this enables us to better match operating cash flows with debt service requirements and to better match the currency of assets and liabilities. the amount of outstanding debt denominated in a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar was $500 million at december 31, 2014 and $398 million at december 31, 2013. customer credit we are exposed to credit risk from our customers. in the normal course of business we extend credit to our customers if they satisfy pre-defined credit criteria. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the failure of our customers to make required payments. an additional allowance may be required if the financial condition of our customers deteriorates. the allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that management assesses to be appropriate to absorb estimated losses in the accounts receivable portfolio. our customers may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. our provision for bad debt expense was $8 million in 2014, $12 million in 2013 and $14 million in 2012. the allowance for doubtful accounts was $29 million at december 31, 2014 and $31 million at december 31, 2013. pensions recent market conditions have resulted in an unusually high degree of volatility and increased risks and short-term liquidity concerns associated with some of the plan assets held by our defined benefit pension plans, which have impacted the performance of some of the plan assets. based upon the annual valuation of our defined benefit pension plans at december 31, 2014, we expect our net periodic benefit costs to be approximately $9 million in 2015. see note 14, profit sharing, retirement savings plans and defined benefit pension plans, for further details on our defined benefit pension plans. commodities we use various commodity raw materials such as plastic resins and other chemicals and energy products such as electric power and natural gas in conjunction with our manufacturing processes. generally, we acquire these components at market prices in the region in which they will be used and do not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. moreover, we seek to maintain appropriate levels of commodity raw material inventories thus minimizing the expense and risks of carrying excess inventories. we do not typically purchase substantial quantities in advance of production requirements. as a result, we are exposed to market risks related to changes in commodity prices of these components. 70risk factors 12 risk factors introduction the risks described below should be carefully considered before making an investment decision. these are the most significant risk factors, but they are not the only risk factors that should be considered in making an investment decision. this form 10-k also contains and may incorporate by reference forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. see the cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements, in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. the trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks, and investors in our securities may lose all or part of their investment. uncertain global economic conditions have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. uncertain global economic conditions have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business in the form of lower net sales due to weakened demand, unfavorable changes in product price/mix, or lower profit margins. for example, global economic downturns have adversely impacted some of our end-users and customers, such as food processors, distributors, supermarket retailers, hotels, restaurants, retail establishments, other retailers, business service contractors and e-commerce and mail order fulfillment firms, and other end-users that are particularly sensitive to business and consumer spending. during economic downturns or recessions, there can be a heightened competition for sales and increased pressure to reduce selling prices as our customers may reduce their volume of purchases from us. if we lose significant sales volume or reduce selling prices significantly, then there could be a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations, profitability and cash flows. also, reduced availability of credit may adversely affect the ability of some of our customers and suppliers to obtain funds for operations and capital expenditures. this could negatively impact our ability to obtain necessary supplies as well as our sales of materials and equipment to affected customers. this also could result in reduced or delayed collections of outstanding accounts receivable. the global nature of our operations exposes us to numerous risks that could materially adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we operate in 62 countries, and our products are distributed in those countries as well as in other parts of the world. a large portion of our manufacturing operations are located outside of the u.s. and a majority of our net sales are generated outside of the u.s. these operations, particularly in developing regions, are subject to various risks that may not be present or as significant for our u.s. operations. economic uncertainty in some of the geographic regions in which we operate, including developing regions, could result in the disruption of commerce and negatively impact cash flows from our operations in those areas. risks inherent in our international operations include: foreign currency exchange controls and tax rates; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including devaluations; the potential for changes in regional and local economic conditions, including local inflationary pressures; restrictive governmental actions such as those on transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection matters, including antidumping duties, tariffs, embargoes and prohibitions or restrictions on acquisitions or joint ventures; changes in laws and regulations, including the laws and policies of the u.s. affecting trade and foreign investment; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; variations in protection of intellectual property and other legal rights; more expansive legal rights of foreign unions or works councils; changes in labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; import and export delays caused, for example, by an extended strike at the port of entry, could cause a delay in our supply chain operations; social plans that prohibit or increase the cost of certain restructuring actions; 12 the potential for nationalization of enterprises or facilities; and unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against u.s. or other interests. in addition, there are potential tax inefficiencies and tax costs in repatriating funds from our non-u.s. subsidiaries. these and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. fluctuations between foreign currencies and the u.s. dollar could materially impact our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. approximately 62% of our net sales in 2015 were generated outside the united states. we translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currency into u.s. dollars for our consolidated financial statements. as a result, the company is exposed to currency fluctuations both in receiving cash from its international operations and in translating its financial results back to u.s. dollars. during periods of a strengthening u.s. dollar, our reported international sales and net earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer u.s. dollars. the company cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations on its future operating results. as exchange rates vary, the company's results of operations and profitability may be harmed. while we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency exposures, this does not insulate us completely from foreign currency effects and exposes us to counterparty credit risk for non-performance. see note 12, derivatives and hedging activities. such hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial effect resulting from foreign currency variations. the gains or losses associated with hedging activities may harm the company's results of operations. in all jurisdictions in which we operate, we are also subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions. these laws and regulations may limit our ability to repatriate cash as dividends or otherwise to the u.s. and may limit our ability to convert foreign currency cash flows into u.s. dollars. we have recognized foreign exchange gains and losses related to the currency devaluations in venezuela and its designation as a highly inflationary economy under u.s. gaap. see note 2. summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards impact of inflation and currency fluctuation venezuela. political and economic instability and risk of government actions affecting our business and our customers or suppliers may adversely impact our business, results of operations and cash flows. we are exposed to risks inherent in doing business in each of the countries or regions in which we or our customers or suppliers operate including: civil unrest, acts of terrorism, sabotage, epidemics, force majeure, war or other armed conflict and related government actions, including sanctions/embargoes, the deprivation of contract rights, the inability to obtain or retain licenses required by us to operate our plants or import or export our goods or raw materials, the expropriation or nationalization of our assets, and restrictions on travel, payments or the movement of funds. in particular, if additional restrictions on trade with russia were adopted by the european union or the u.s., and were applicable to our products, we could lose sales and experience lower growth rates in the future. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. we may not be able to affect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities, the indentures that govern our senior notes and the agreements covering our accounts receivable securitization programs restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. 13 in addition, we conduct a substantial portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, certain of which are not guarantors of our indebtedness. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiari es and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. unless they are guarantors of our indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contract ual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. while the indenture governing certain of our senior notes, these notes and the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities limit the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to qualifications and exceptions. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiari es, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. if we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could terminate their commitments to loan money, the lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. the terms of our credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities and accounts receivable securitization programs and the indentures governing our senior notes restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. the indentures governing our senior notes and the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities and accounts receivable securitization programs contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to: incur additional indebtedness; pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; make loans and investments; sell assets; incur liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; alter the businesses we conduct; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. in addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit agreement governing our senior credit facilities require us to maintain a specified net leverage ratio. our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control. a breach of the covenants under the indenture governing our senior notes or under the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. in addition, an event of default under the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities would permit the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under those facilities. furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our senior secured credit facilities, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. in the event our lenders or note holders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. as a result of these restrictions, we may be: limited in how we conduct our business; unable to respond to changing market conditions; 14 unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns or to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due; or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. in addition, amounts available under our accounts receivable securitization programs can be impacted by a number of factors, including but not limited to our credit ratings, accounts receivable balances, the creditworthiness of our customers and our receivables collection experience. our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. if interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. as of december 31, 2015, we had $1.264 billion of borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities at variable interest rates. a 1/8% increase or decrease in the assumed interest rates on the senior secured credit facilities would result in a $1.6 million increase or a $1.6 million decrease in annual interest expense. in the future, we may enter into interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility. however, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. raw material pricing, availability and allocation by suppliers as well as energy-related costs may negatively impact our results of operations, including our profit margins. we use petrochemical-based raw materials to manufacture many of our products. the prices for these raw materials are cyclical, and increases in market demand or fluctuations in the global trade for petrochemical- based raw materials and energy could increase our costs. in addition, the prices of many of the other key raw materials used in our businesses, such as caustic soda, solvents, waxes, phosphates, surfactants, polymers and resins, chelates and fragrances, are cyclical based on numerous supply and demand factors that are beyond our control. if we are unable to minimize the effects of increased raw material costs through sourcing, pricing or other actions, our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we also have some sole-source suppliers, and the lack of availability of supplies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers and suppliers of other raw materials in the future. these factors could lead to increased prices for our raw materials, curtailment of supplies and allocation of raw materials by our suppliers, which could reduce revenues and profit margins and harm relations with our customers and which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. unfavorable consumer responses to price increases could have a material adverse impact on our sales and earnings. from time to time, and especially in periods of rising raw material costs, we increase the prices of our products. significant price increases could impact our earnings depending on, among other factors, the pricing by competitors of similar products and the response by the customers to higher prices. such price increases may result in lower volume of sales and a subsequent decrease in gross margin and adversely impact earnings. the full realization of our deferred tax assets may be affected by a number of factors, including our earnings in the u.s. we have deferred tax assets including state and foreign net operating loss carry forwards, foreign tax credits, accruals not yet deductible for tax purposes, employee benefit items and other items. we have established valuation allowances to reduce the deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. our ability to utilize the deferred tax assets depends in part upon our ability to generate future taxable income within each respective jurisdiction during the periods in which these temporary differences reverse or our ability to carryback any losses created by the deduction of these temporary differences. we expect to realize the assets over an extended period. if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in the u.s. and/or certain foreign jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. our effective tax rate would increase if we were required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. 15 our most significant deferred tax asset is our foreign tax credit carryforwards. the benefit from the amount carried forward may depend upon many factors, including the jurisdictional mix of our anticipated future earnings. a reduction in our anticipated u.s. earnings, or an unfavorable mix of domestic versus foreign-sourced u.s earnings may change our foreign tax credit position which could result in a significant increase in our effective tax rate and could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in the periods in which any such condition occurs. in addition, changes in statutory tax rates or other legislation or re gulation may change our deferred tax assets or liability balances, with either favorable or unfavorable impacts on our effective tax rate. we may not achieve all of the expected benefits from our restructuring programs. we have implemented a number of restructuring programs in the last few years, including our fusion program, earnings quality improvement program (eqip) and integration and optimization program (iop). these programs include various cost savings and reorganization initiatives, including the relocation of our corporate headquarters to charlotte, north carolina, the consolidation of certain facilities and the reduction of headcount. we have made certain assumptions in estimating the anticipated savings we expect to achieve under such programs, which include the estimated savings from the elimination of certain headcount and the consolidation of facilities. these assumptions may turn out to be incorrect due to a variety of factors. in addition, our ability to realize the expected benefits from these programs is subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unsuccessful in implementing these programs or if we do not achieve our expected results, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected or our business operations could be disrupted. the effects of animal and food-related health issues, such as porcine epidemic diarrhea or ped , bovine spongiform encephalopathy, also known as mad cow disease, foot-and-mouth disease, avian influenza or bird-flu , as well as other health issues affecting the food industry, may lead to decreased revenues. we manufacture and sell food packaging products, among other products. various health issues affecting the food industry have in the past and may in the future have a negative effect on the sales of food packaging products. in recent years, occasional cases of ped and mad cow disease have been confirmed and incidents of bird-flu have surfaced in various countries. outbreaks of animal diseases may lead governments to restrict exports and imports of potentially affected animals and food products, leading to decreased demand for our products and possibly also to the culling or slaughter of significant numbers of the animal population otherwise intended for food supply. also, consumers may change their eating habits as a result of perceived problems with certain types of food. these factors may lead to reduced sales of food packaging products, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. risks related to implementation of our new global enterprise resource planning system. we are currently engaged in a multi-year process of conforming the majority of our operations onto one global enterprise resource planning system ( erp ). the erp is designed to improve the efficiency of our supply chain and financial transaction processes, accurately maintain our books and records, and provide information important to the operation of the business to our management team. the erp will continue to require significant investment of human and financial resources, and we may experience significant delays, increased costs and other difficulties as a result. any significant disruption or deficiency in the design and implementation of the erp could adversely affect our ability to fulfill and invoice customer orders, apply cash receipts, place purchase orders with suppliers, and make cash disbursements, and could negatively impact data processing and electronic communications among business locations, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we also face the challenge of supporting our older systems and implementing necessary upgrades to those systems while we implement the new erp system. while we have invested significant resources in planning and project management, significant implementation issues may arise. 16 although the settlement agreem ent (as defined in note 17, commitments and contingencies ) has been implemented and we have been released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against us arising from a 1998 transact ion with grace (as defined below), if the courts were to refuse to enforce the injunctions or releases contained in the plan (as defined below) and the settlement agreement with respect to any claims and if grace were unwilling or unable to defend and inde mnify us for such claims, then we could be required to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we are also a defendant in a number of asbestos-related actions in canada arising from grace's activities in canada prior to the 1998 transaction. on march 31, 1998, sealed air completed a multi-step transaction (the cryovac transaction ) involving w.r. grace &amp; co. ( grace ) which brought the cryovac packaging business and the former sealed air's business under the common ownership of the company. as part of that transaction, grace and its subsidiaries retained all liabilities arising out of their operations before the cryovac transaction (including asbestos-related liabilities), other than liabilities relating to cryovac's operations, and agreed to indemnify the company with respect to such retained liabilities. since the beginning of 2000, we have been served with a number of lawsuits alleging that, as a result of the cryovac transaction, we are responsible for alleged asbestos liabilities of grace and its subsidiaries. while they vary, these suits all appear to allege that the transfer of the cryovac business was a fraudulent transfer or gave rise to successor liability. on april 2, 2001, grace and a number of its subsidiaries filed petitions for reorganization under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code in the u.s. bankruptcy court for the district of delaware (the bankruptcy court ). in connection with grace's chapter 11 case, the bankruptcy court issued orders dated may 3, 2001 and january 22, 2002, staying all asbestos actions against the company (the preliminary injunction ). however, the official committees appointed to represent asbestos claimants in grace's chapter 11 case (the committees ) received the court's permission to pursue fraudulent transfer and other claims against the company and its subsidiary cryovac, inc. based upon the cryovac transaction. this proceeding was brought in the u.s. district court for the district of delaware (the district court ) (adv. no. 02-02210). on november 27, 2002, we reached an agreement in principle with the committees to resolve all current and future asbestos-related claims made against us and our affiliates in connection with the cryovac transaction. the settlement agreement provided for the resolution of the fraudulent transfer claims and successor liability claims, as well as indemnification claims by fresenius medical care holdings, inc. and affiliated companies in connection with the cryovac transaction. the parties to the agreement in principle signed the definitive settlement agreement as of november 10, 2003 consistent with the terms of the agreement in principle. on june 27, 2005, the bankruptcy court signed an order approving the settlement agreement. although grace is not a party to the settlement agreement, under the terms of the order, grace is directed to comply with the settlement agreement subject to limited exceptions. on september 19, 2008, grace, the official committee of asbestos personal injury claimants, the asbestos pi future claimants' representative, and the official committee of equity security holders filed, as co-proponents, a plan of reorganization (as filed and amended from time to time, the plan ) and several exhibits and associated documents, including a disclosure statement, with the bankruptcy court. the plan provides for the establishment of two asbestos trusts under section 524(g) of the united states bankruptcy code to which present and future asbestos-related personal injury and property damage claims are channeled. the plan incorporates the settlement agreement, including our payment of amounts contemplated by the settlement agreement and the releases and injunctions contemplated by the settlement agreement. on february 3, 2014 (the effective date ), the plan implementing the settlement agreement became effective with grace emerging from bankruptcy. in accordance with the plan and the settlement agreement, on the effective date, cryovac, inc. made aggregate cash payments in the amount of $929.7 million to the wrg asbestos pi trust (the pi trust ) and the wrg asbestos pd trust (the pd trust ) and transferred 18 million shares of sealed air common stock to the pi trust, in each case reflecting adjustments made in accordance with the settlement agreement. under the plan, the preliminary injunction remained in place through the effective date and, on the effective date, the plan and settlement agreement injunctions and releases with respect to asbestos claims and certain other claims became effective. following the effective date, the bankruptcy court issued an order dismissing the proceedings pursuant to which the preliminary injunction was issued. the plan further provides for the channeling of existing and future asbestos claims to the pi trust or the pd trust, as applicable. in addition, under the plan and the settlement agreement, grace is required to indemnify us with respect to asbestos and certain other liabilities. notwithstanding the foregoing, and although we believe the possibility to be remote, if any courts were to refuse to enforce the injunctions or releases contained in the plan and the settlement agreement with respect to any claims, and if, in addition, grace were unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us for such claims, then we could be required to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. 17 since november 2004, the company a nd specified subsidiaries have been named as defendants in a number of cases, including a number of putative class actions, brought in canada as a result of grace's alleged marketing, manufacturing or distributing of asbestos or asbestos containing product in canada prior to the cryovac transaction in 1998. grace has agreed to defend and indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases. a global settlement of these canadian claims to be funded by grace has been approved by the canadian court, and the plan provides for payment of these claims. we do not have any positive obligations under the canadian settlement, but we are a beneficiary of the release of claims. the release in favor of the grace parties (including us) became operative upon the effective dat e of a plan of reorganization in grace's united states chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding. as filed, the plan contemplates that the claims released under the canadian settlement will be subject to injunctions under section 524(g) of the bankruptcy code. as i ndicated above, the bankruptcy court entered the bankruptcy court confirmation order on january 31, 2011 and the clarifying order on february 15, 2011 and the district court entered the original district court confirmation order on january 30, 2012 and the amended district court confirmation order on june 11, 2012. the canadian court issued an order on april 8, 2011 recognizing and giving full effect to the bankruptcy court's confirmation order in all provinces and territories of canada in accordance with t he bankruptcy court confirmation order's terms. as described above, the plan became effective on february 3, 2014. in accordance with an order of the canadian court, on the effective date the actions became permanently stayed until they are amended to rem ove the grace parties as named defendants. two actions were dismissed by the manitoba court as against the grace parties on february 19, 2014. the remaining actions were either dismissed or discontinued with prejudice by the canadian courts as against the grace parties in may and june 2015, but for two actions in the province of quebec, for which motions to dismiss are pending. notwithstanding the foregoing, and although we believe the possibility to be remote, if the canadian courts refuse to enforce the final plan of reorganization in the canadian courts, and if in addition grace is unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases, then we could be required to pay damages, which we cannot estimate at this time. for furth er information concerning these matters, see note 17, commitments and contingencies. demand for our products could be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences. our sales depend heavily on the volumes of sales by our customers in the food processing and food service industries. consumer preferences for food and packaging formats of prepackaged food can influence our sales, as can consumer preferences for fresh and unpackaged foods. changes in consumer behavior, including changes in consumer preferences driven by various health-related concerns and perceptions, could negatively impact demand for our products. the consolidation of customers may adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. customers in the food service, food and beverage processing, building care, lodging, industrial distribution and healthcare sectors have been consolidating in recent years, and we believe this trend may continue. such consolidation could have an adverse impact on the pricing of our products and services and our ability to retain customers, which could in turn adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we experience competition in the markets for our products and services and in the geographic areas in which we operate. our packaging products compete with similar products made by other manufacturers and with a number of other types of materials or products. we compete on the basis of performance characteristics of our products, as well as service, price and innovations in technology. a number of competing domestic and foreign companies are well-established. the market for our hygiene products is highly competitive. our hygiene products businesses face significant competition from global, national, regional and local companies within some or all of our product lines in each sector that we serve. barriers to entry and expansion in the institutional and industrial cleaning, sanitation and hygiene industry are low. our inability to maintain a competitive advantage could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes for our products. additionally, we may not successfully implement our pricing actions. these factors may have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. concerns about greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions and climate change and the resulting governmental and market responses to these issues could increase costs that we incur and could otherwise affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives have been enacted and proposed in response to concerns about ghg emissions and climate change. we are a manufacturing entity that utilizes petrochemical-based raw materials to produce many of our products, including plastic packaging materials. increased environmental legislation or regulation could result in higher costs for us in the form of higher raw materials and freight and energy costs. we could also incur additional compliance costs for monitoring and reporting emissions and for maintaining permits. it is also possible that certain materials might cease to be permitted to be used in our processes. 18 disruption and volatility of the financial and credit market could affect our external liquidity sources. our principal sources of liquidity are accumulated cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flow from operations and amounts available under our lines of credit, including our senior secured credit facilities and our accounts receivable securitization programs. we may be unable to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our senior notes, our accounts receivable securitization programs and our senior secured credit facilities, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. additionally, conditions in financial markets could affect financial institutions with which we have relationships and could result in adverse effects on our ability to utilize fully our committed borrowing facilities. for example, a lender under the senior secured credit facilities may be unwilling or unable to fund a borrowing request, and we may not be able to replace such lender. strengthening of the u.s. dollar and other foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could materially impact our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. approximately 62% of our net sales in 2015 were generated outside the united states. we translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currency into u.s. dollars for our consolidated financial statements. during periods of a strengthening u.s. dollar, our reported international sales and net earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer u.s. dollars. also, while we often produce in the same geographic markets as our products are sold, expenses are more concentrated in the u.s. than sales, so that in a time of strengthening of the u.s. dollar, our profit margins could be reduced. while we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency exposures, this does not insulate us completely from foreign currency effects and exposes us to counterparty credit risk for non-performance. see note 12, derivatives and hedging activities. we have recognized foreign exchange gains and losses related to the currency devaluations in venezuela and its designation as a highly inflationary economy under u.s. gaap. see note 2. summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards impact of inflation and currency fluctuation venezuela. in all jurisdictions in which we operate, we are also subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions. these laws and regulations may limit our ability to repatriate cash as dividends or otherwise to the u.s. and may limit our ability to convert foreign currency cash flows into u.s. dollars. new and stricter legislation and regulations may affect our business and consolidated financial condition and results of operations. increased legislative and regulatory activity and burdens, and a more stringent manner in which they are applied (particularly in the u.s.), could significantly impact our business and the economy as a whole. this includes, among other things, the possible taxation under u.s. law of certain income from foreign operations, compliance costs and enforcement under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank act), and costs associated with complying with the patient protection and affordable care act of 2010 and the regulations promulgated thereunder. for example, under section 1502 of the dodd-frank act, the sec has adopted additional disclosure requirements related to the source of certain conflict minerals for issuers for which such conflict minerals are necessary to the functionality or product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by that issuer. the metals covered by the rules include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, commonly referred to as 3tg. our suppliers may use some or all of these materials in their production processes. the sec's rules require us to perform due diligence on our suppliers. global supply chains can have multiple layers, thus the costs of complying with these requirements could be substantial. these requirements may also reduce the number of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. compliance costs and the unavailability of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. as another example, the affordable care act (the aca ), which was adopted in 2010 and is being phased in over several years, significantly affects the provision of both healthcare services and benefits in the u.s.; the aca may impact our cost of providing our employees and retirees with health insurance and/or benefits, and may also impact various other aspects of our business. we provide benefits to our employees which are competitive within the industries in which we operate. the aca did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations in 2015, 2014 or 2013; however, we are continuing to assess the impact of the aca on our healthcare benefit costs. the regulatory environment is still developing, and the potential exists for future legislation and regulations to be adopted. these developments, as well as the increasingly strict regulatory environment, may also adversely affect the customers to which, and the markets into which, we sell our products, and increase our costs and otherwise negatively affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations, including in ways that cannot yet be foreseen. 19 our annual effective income tax rate can change materially as a result of changes in our mix of u.s. and foreign earnings and other factors, including changes in tax laws and changes made by regulatory authorities. our overall effective income tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of total earnings before tax. however, income tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global basis but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis. losses in one jurisdiction may not be used to offset profits in other jurisdictions and may cause an increase in our tax rate. changes in the mix of earnings (or losses) between jurisdictions and assumptions used in the calculation of income taxes, among other factors, could have a significant effect on our overall effective income tax rate. we are subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. as a result, any adverse development in the tax laws of any of these jurisdictions or any disagreement with our tax positions could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to taxation in, and to the tax laws and regulations of, multiple jurisdictions as a result of the international scope of our operations and our corporate and financing structure. we are also subject to transfer pricing laws with respect to our intercompany transactions, including those relating to the flow of funds among our companies. adverse developments in these laws or regulations, or any change in position regarding the application, administration or interpretation thereof, in any applicable jurisdiction, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of our operations. in addition, the tax authorities in any applicable jurisdiction, including the u.s., may disagree with the positions we have taken or intend to take regarding the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions. if any applicable tax authorities, including u.s. tax authorities, were to successfully challenge the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of our operations. our performance and prospects for future growth could be adversely affected if new products do not meet sales or margin expectations. our competitive advantage is due in part to our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the development and introduction cycle of new products can be lengthy and involve high levels of investment. new products may not meet sales or margin expectations due to many factors, including our inability to (i) accurately predict demand, end-user preferences and evolving industry standards; (ii) resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner; or (iii) achieve manufacturing efficiencies. a major loss of or disruption in our manufacturing and distribution operations or our information systems and telecommunication resources could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we experienced a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or other severe weather event, or a casualty loss from an event such as a fire or flood, at one of our larger strategic facilities or if such event affected a key supplier, our supply chain or our information systems and telecommunication resources, then there could be a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on internal and third party information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. in particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for fulfilling and invoicing customer orders, applying cash receipts, and placing purchase orders with suppliers, making cash disbursements, and conducting digital marketing activities, data processing and electronic communications among business locations. we also depend on telecommunication systems for communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. future system disruptions, security breaches or shutdowns could significantly disrupt our operations or result in lost or misappropriated information and may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. as a result of previous acquisitions, including diversey, we recorded a significant amount of additional goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets and we may never realize the full carrying value of these assets. as a result of certain acquisitions, including the acquisition of diversey, we recorded a significant amount of additional goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including customer relationships, trademarks and developed technologies. 20 we test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for possible impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. amortizable intan gible assets are periodically reviewed for possible impairment whenever there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. impairment may result from, among other things, (i) a decrease in our expected net earnings; (ii) adverse equity market conditions; (iii) a decline in current market multiples; (iv) a decline in our common stock price; (v) a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climates; (vi) an adverse action or assessme nt by a regulator; (vii) heightened competition; (viii) strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions; or (ix) a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold o r disposed of. in the event that we determine that events or circumstances exist that indicate that the carrying value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, we might have to recognize a non-cash impairment of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial results or harm our reputation or the value of our brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of our products arise in the ordinary course of our business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm our reputation in the marketplace or adversely impact the value of our brands or our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. we could also be required to recall possibly defective products, or voluntarily do so, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, potential product liabilities claims could be excluded or exceed coverage limits under the terms of our insurance policies or could result in increased costs for such coverage. the relationship with s.c. johnson &amp; son, inc. ( scj ) is important to our diversey care segment, and any damage to this relationship could have a material adverse effect on this segment. diversey is party to various agreements with scj under which it is granted a license in specified territories to sell certain scj products and use specified trade names owned by scj in the institutional and industrial channels of trade and, subject to certain limitations, in specified channels of trade in which both our diversey care segment and scj's consumer business operate, which expires in 2017. although the term of this agreement may be extended, it is uncertain the parties will agree to do so. if we default under our agreements with scj and the agreements are terminated, we are not able to amicably resolve any disputes in accordance with the terms of the agreements, scj fails to perform its obligations under these agreements, or our relationship with scj is otherwise damaged or severed, this could have a material adverse effect on our diversey care segment, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. the relationship with unilever plc ( unilever ) is important to our diversey care segment and any damage to this relationship could have a material adverse effect on this segment. diversey is a party to various agreements with unilever under which it is granted a license to produce and sell professional size packs of unilever's consumer brand cleaning products in the institutional and industrial channels of trade, which expires at the end of 2017 (with the exception of a sub-set of the uk business which expires at the end of 2022). although the term of this agreement may be extended, it is uncertain that the parties will agree to do so. in addition, diversey also holds licenses to use some trademarks and technology of unilever in the market for institutional and industrial cleaning, sanitation and hygiene products and related services. if we default under our agreements with unilever and the agreements are terminated, unilever fails to perform its obligations under these agreements, or our relationship with unilever is otherwise damaged or severed, this could have a material adverse effect on our diversey care segment, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we are unable to retain key employees and other personnel, our consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other key personnel. their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us, and we need their expertise to execute our business strategies. if any of our senior management or other key personnel cease to work for us and we are unable to successfully replace any departing senior management or key personnel, our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 21 we coul d experience disruptions in operations and/or increased labor costs. in europe and latin america, most of our employees are represented by either labor unions or workers councils and are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are generally renewable on an annual basis. as is the case with any negotiation, we may not be able to negotiate acceptable new collective bargaining agreements, which could result in strikes or work stoppages by affected workers. renewal of collective bargaining agreements could also result in higher wages or benefits paid to union members. a disruption in operations or higher ongoing labor costs could materially affect our business. we are subject to a variety of environmental and product registration laws that expose us to potential financial liability and increased operating costs. our operations are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the manufacture of our products, the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil and water and the use, handling, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. many jurisdictions require us to have operating permits for our production and warehouse facilities and operations. any failure to obtain, maintain or comply with the terms of these permits could result in fines or penalties, revocation or nonrenewal of our permits, or orders to cease certain operations, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we generate, use and dispose of hazardous materials in our manufacturing processes. in the event our operations result in the release of hazardous materials into the environment, we may become responsible for the costs associated with the investigation and remediation of sites at which we have released pollutants, or sites where we have disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes, even if we fully complied with environmental laws at the time of disposal. we have been, and may continue to be, responsible for the cost of remediation at some locations. some jurisdictions have laws and regulations that govern the registration and labeling of some of our products. we expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our european operations as a result of a european union ( eu ) directive registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals (eu directive no. 2006/1907) enacted on december 18, 2006. the directive imposes several requirements related to the identification and management of risks related to chemical substances manufactured or marketed in europe. the eu has also recently enacted a classification, packaging and labeling regulation. other jurisdictions may impose similar requirements. we cannot predict with reasonable certainty the future cost to us of environmental compliance, product registration, or environmental remediation. environmental laws have become more stringent and complex over time. our environmental costs and operating expenses will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the scope and timing of the effectiveness of requirements in these various jurisdictions. as a result of such requirements, we may be subject to an increased regulatory burden, and we expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our operations. increased compliance costs, increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, or our inability to market some of our products in certain jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. the legacy diversey business had tendered various environmental indemnification claims to unilever pursuant to the unilever acquisition agreement (as defined below). under a previous acquisition agreement between the legacy diversey business and unilever (the unilever acquisition agreement ), unilever made warranties to diversey with respect to the facilities formerly owned by unilever. in addition, unilever agreed to indemnify diversey for specified types of environmental liabilities if the aggregate amount of damages meets various dollar thresholds, subject to a cap of $250 million in the aggregate. diversey was required to notify unilever of any environmental indemnification claims by may 3, 2008. any environmental claims pending after this date, with respect to which diversey has notified unilever, remain subject to indemnification until remediation is completed in accordance with the unilever acquisition agreement. diversey has previously tendered various environmental indemnification claims to unilever in connection with former unilever locations. unilever has not indicated its agreement with diversey's request for indemnification. we may file additional requests for reimbursement in the future in connection with pending indemnification claims. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover any amounts relating to these indemnification claims from unilever. 22 our insurance policies may not cover all operating risks and a casualty loss beyond the limits of o ur coverage could adversely impact our business. our business is subject to operating hazards and risks relating to handling, storing, transporting and use of the products we sell. we maintain insurance policies in amounts and with coverage and deductibles that we believe are reasonable and prudent. nevertheless, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us from all liabilities and expenses that may arise from claims for personal injury or death or property damage arising in the ordinary course of business, and our current levels of insurance may not be maintained or available in the future at economical prices. if a significant liability claim is brought against us that are not adequately covered by insurance, we may have to pay the claim with our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we are not able to protect our trade secrets or maintain our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property, we may not be able to prevent competitors from developing similar products or from marketing their products in a manner that capitalizes on our trademarks, and this loss of a competitive advantage could decrease our profitability and liquidity. our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. if we were unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property and our significant current or proposed products, this loss of a competitive advantage could result in decreased sales or increased operating costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we rely on trade secrets to maintain our competitive position, including protecting the formulation and manufacturing techniques of many of our products. as such, we have not sought u.s. or international patent protection for some of our principal product formulas and manufacturing processes. accordingly, we may not be able to prevent others from developing products that are similar to or competitive with our products. we own a large number of patents and pending patent applications on our products, aspects thereof, methods of use and/or methods of manufacturing. there is a risk that our patents may not provide meaningful protection and patents may never be issued for our pending patent applications. we own, or have licenses to use, all of the material trademark and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our major products both in the u.s. and in other countries where our products are principally sold. trademark and trade name protection is important to our business. although most of our trademarks are registered in the u.s. and in the foreign countries in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s. the costs required to protect our trademarks and trade names may be substantial. we cannot be certain that we will be able to assert these intellectual property rights successfully in the future or that they will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute the value of our intellectual property in the marketplace. third parties, including competitors, may assert intellectual property infringement or invalidity claims against us that could be upheld. intellectual property litigation, which could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by us, may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or proprietary technology or for us to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of others' proprietary rights. we may not prevail in any such litigation, and if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on reasonable terms or at all. any failure by us to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. cyber risk and the failure to maintain the integrity of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties with which we do business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to an increasing number of information technology vulnerabilities, threats and targeted computer crimes which pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of our networks or systems, could result in the loss of customers and business opportunities, legal liability, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensatory costs, and additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. while we attempt to mitigate these risks, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced and persistent threats. 23 we also maintain and have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer controls. despite our efforts to protect such sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, our facilities and systems and th ose of our customers and third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors that could lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, im proper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our cons olidated, financial condition and results of operations. 24 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in the conditions in the global financial markets, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices and the creditworthiness of our customers and suppliers, which may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we seek to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. we do not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rates from time to time, we may use interest rate swaps, collars or options to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. at december 31, 2015, we had no outstanding interest rate swaps and no outstanding interest rate collars or options. the information set forth in item 8 of part ii of this annual report on form 10-k in note 12, derivatives and hedging activities, under the caption interest rate swaps, is incorporated herein by reference. see note 13, fair value measurements and other financial instruments, for details of the methodology and inputs used to determine the fair value of our fixed rate debt. the fair value of our fixed rate debt varies with changes in interest rates. generally, the fair value of fixed rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease of $109 million in the fair value of the total debt balance at december 31, 2015. these changes in the fair value of our fixed rate debt do not alter our obligations to repay the outstanding principal amount or any related interest of such debt. foreign exchange rates operations as a large global organization, we face exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could materially impact our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in the future. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, above for the impacts foreign currency translation had on our operations. 65 venezuela economic and political events in venezuela have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risk. see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards impact of inflation and currency fluctuation - venezuela for additional details. argentina recent economic events in argentina, including the default on some of its international debt obligations, have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risks. however, as of december 31, 2015, we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact to our 2016 outlook discussed above. for 2015, about 2% of our consolidated net sales and operating income were derived from our businesses in argentina. as of december 31, 2015, we had net assets of $23 million (including $6 million of cash and cash equivalents) in argentina. russia the u.s. and the european union (eu) have recently imposed sanctions on various sectors of the russian economy and on transactions with certain russian nationals and entities. russia has also announced economic sanctions against the u.s. and other nations that include a ban on imports of certain products. these sanctions are not expected to have a material impact on our business as much of the operations in russia support local production; however they may limit the amount of future business the company does with customers involved in activities in russia. as of december 31, 2015, less than 2% of our consolidated net sales were derived from products sold into russia. greece recent economic events in greece, including missing payment to the international monetary fund and the uncertainties relating to the ability of greece to remain in the european monetary union may require us to tighten credit controls that will have adverse impact on our sales and bad debt expense. however, as of december 31, 2015, we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact on our 2016 results of operations. as of december 31, 2015, less than 1% of our consolidated net sales were derived from products sold into greece. brazil recent economic events in brazil, including the increase in the benchmark interest rate set by the brazilian central bank, have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risks. however, as of december 31, 2015, we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact on our 2016 results of operations. as of december 31, 2015, less than 3% of our consolidated net sales were derived from products sold into brazil. impact of inflation and currency fluctuation economic and political events in certain countries have exposed us to heightened levels of inflation and foreign currency exchange risks. the effects of these could impact our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k for details regarding the impact of inflation and currency fluctuation. also, for a discussion of our risk factors, please refer to part ii, item 1a, risk factors. foreign currency forward contracts we use foreign currency forward contracts to fix the amounts payable or receivable on some transactions denominated in foreign currencies. a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates at december 31, 2015 would have caused us to pay approximately $50 million to terminate these contracts. based on our overall foreign exchange exposure, we estimate this change would not materially affect our financial position and liquidity. the effect on our results of operations would be substantially offset by the impact of the hedged items. our foreign currency forward contracts are described in note 12, derivatives and hedging activities, which is contained in part ii, item 8, and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources derivative financial instruments foreign currency forward contracts, contained in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k, which information is incorporated herein by reference. 66 interest rate and currency swap in connection with exercising the $100 million delayed draw under the senior secured credit facility, we entered into a series of interest rate and currency swaps. these swaps convert the u.s dollar denominated variable rate obligation under the credit facility into a fixed rate brazilian real denominated obligation. the delayed draw and the interest rate and currency swaps are used to fund expansion and general corporate purposes of our brazilian subsidiaries. net investment hedge during the second quarter of 2015, we entered into a series of foreign currency exchange forwards totaling 270 million. these foreign currency exchange forwards hedged a portion of the net investment in a certain european subsidiary against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and expired in june 2015. the loss of $3.5 million ($2.2 million after tax) is recorded in aoci on our consolidated balance sheet. the 400 million 4.50% notes issued in june 2015 are designated as a net investment hedge, hedging a portion of our net investment in a certain european subsidiary against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. the change in the fair value of the debt was $(12.4) million ($(7.6) million after tax) at december 31, 2015, and is reflected in long-term debt on our consolidated balance sheet. in march 2015, we entered into a series of cross-currency swaps with a combined notional amount of $425 million, hedging a portion of the net investment in a certain european subsidiary against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. the fair value of this hedge as of december 31, 2015 was $(12.0) million ($(7.4) million after tax) on our consolidated balance sheet. semi-annual interest settlements resulted in aoci of $5.9 million ($3.6 million after tax). for derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedges of net investments in foreign operations, settlements and changes in fair values of the derivative instruments are recognized in unrealized net gains or loss on derivative instruments for net investment hedge, a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of taxes, to offset the changes in the values of the net investments being hedged. any portion of the net investment hedge that is determined to be ineffective is recorded in other income, net on the consolidated statements of operations. other derivative instruments during the second quarter of 2015, we entered into a series of foreign currency exchange options to partially protect the company's euro-denominated earnings from a decline in the value of the euro. the options have expired as of december 31, 2015. we may use other derivative instruments from time to time to manage exposure to foreign exchange rates and to access to international financing transactions. these instruments can potentially limit foreign exchange exposure by swapping borrowings denominated in one currency for borrowings denominated in another currency. outstanding debt our outstanding debt is generally denominated in the functional currency of the borrower. we believe that this enables us to better match operating cash flows with debt service requirements and to better match the currency of assets and liabilities. the amount of outstanding debt denominated in a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar was $1 billion at december 31, 2015 and $500 million at december 31, 2014. customer credit we are exposed to credit risk from our customers. in the normal course of business we extend credit to our customers if they satisfy pre-defined credit criteria. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the failure of our customers to make required payments. an additional allowance may be required if the financial condition of our customers deteriorates. the allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that management assesses to be appropriate to absorb estimated losses in the accounts receivable portfolio. our customers may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. our provision for bad debt expense was $4 million in 2015, $8 million in 2014 and $12 million in 2013. the allowance for doubtful accounts was $25 million at december 31, 2015 and $29 million at december 31, 2014. 67 pensions recent market conditions have resulted in an unusually high degree of volatility and increased risks and short-term liquidity concerns associated with some of the plan assets held by our defined benefit pension plans, which have impacted the performance of some of the plan assets. based upon the annual valuation of our defined benefit pension plans at december 31, 2015, we expect our net periodic benefit costs to be approximately $9 million in 2016. see note 14, profit sharing, retirement savings plans and defined benefit pension plans, for further details on our defined benefit pension plans. commodities we use various commodity raw materials such as plastic resins and other chemicals and energy products such as electric power and natural gas in conjunction with our manufacturing processes. generally, we acquire these components at market prices in the region in which they will be used and do not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. moreover, we seek to maintain appropriate levels of commodity raw material inventories thus minimizing the expense and risks of carrying excess inventories. we do not typically purchase substantial quantities in advance of production requirements. as a result, we are exposed to market risks related to changes in commodity prices of these components. 68risk factors 13 risk factors introduction the risks described below should be carefully considered before making an investment decision. these are the most significant risk factors, but they are not the only risk factors that should be considered in making an investment decision. this form 10-k also contains and may incorporate by reference forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. see the cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements, in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. the trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks, and investors in our securities may lose all or part of their investment. uncertain global economic conditions have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. uncertain global economic conditions have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business in the form of lower net sales due to weakened demand, unfavorable changes in product price/mix, or lower profit margins. for example, global economic downturns have adversely impacted some of our end-users and customers, such as food processors, distributors, supermarket retailers, hotels, restaurants, retail establishments, other retailers, business service contractors and e-commerce and mail order fulfillment firms, and other end-users that are particularly sensitive to business and consumer spending. during economic downturns or recessions, there can be a heightened competition for sales and increased pressure to reduce selling prices as our customers may reduce their volume of purchases from us. if we lose significant sales volume or reduce selling prices significantly, then there could be a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations, profitability and cash flows. also, reduced availability of credit may adversely affect the ability of some of our customers and suppliers to obtain funds for operations and capital expenditures. this could negatively impact our ability to obtain necessary supplies as well as our sales of materials and equipment to affected customers. this also could result in reduced or delayed collections of outstanding accounts receivable. the global nature of our operations exposes us to numerous risks that could materially adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we operate in 60 countries, and our products are distributed in those countries as well as in other parts of the world. a large portion of our manufacturing operations are located outside of the u.s. and a majority of our net sales are generated outside of the u.s. these operations, particularly in developing regions, are subject to various risks that may not be present or as significant for our u.s. operations. economic uncertainty in some of the geographic regions in which we operate, including developing regions, could result in the disruption of commerce and negatively impact cash flows from our operations in those areas. risks inherent in our international operations include: foreign currency exchange controls and tax rates; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including devaluations; the potential for changes in regional and local economic conditions, including local inflationary pressures; restrictive governmental actions such as those on transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection matters, including antidumping duties, tariffs, embargoes and prohibitions or restrictions on acquisitions or joint ventures; changes in laws and regulations, including the laws and policies of the u.s. affecting trade and foreign investment; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; variations in protection of intellectual property and other legal rights; more expansive legal rights of foreign unions or works councils; changes in labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; import and export delays caused, for example, by an extended strike at the port of entry, could cause a delay in our supply chain operations; social plans that prohibit or increase the cost of certain restructuring actions; 13 the potential for nationalization of enterprises or facilities; and unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against u.s. or other interests. in addition, there are potential tax inefficiencies and tax costs in repatriating funds from our non-u.s. subsidiaries. these and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. fluctuations between foreign currencies and the u.s. dollar could materially impact our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. approximately 62% of our net sales in 2016 were generated outside the united states. we translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currency into u.s. dollars for our consolidated financial statements. as a result, the company is exposed to currency fluctuations both in receiving cash from its international operations and in translating its financial results back to u.s. dollars. during periods of a strengthening u.s. dollar, our reported international sales and net earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer u.s. dollars. the company cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations on its future operating results. as exchange rates vary, the company's results of operations and profitability may be harmed. while we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency exposures, this does not insulate us completely from foreign currency effects and exposes us to counterparty credit risk for non-performance. see note 12, derivatives and hedging activities of the notes to consolidated financial statements. such hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial effect resulting from foreign currency variations. the gains or losses associated with hedging activities may harm the company's results of operations. in all jurisdictions in which we operate, we are also subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions. these laws and regulations may limit our ability to repatriate cash as dividends or otherwise to the u.s. and may limit our ability to convert foreign currency cash flows into u.s. dollars. we have recognized foreign exchange gains and losses related to the currency devaluations in venezuela and its designation as a highly inflationary economy under u.s. gaap. see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards of the notes to consolidated financial statements under the section impact of inflation and currency fluctuation venezuela. political and economic instability and risk of government actions affecting our business and our customers or suppliers may adversely impact our business, results of operations and cash flows. we are exposed to risks inherent in doing business in each of the countries or regions in which we or our customers or suppliers operate including: civil unrest, acts of terrorism, sabotage, epidemics, force majeure, war or other armed conflict and related government actions, including sanctions/embargoes, the deprivation of contract rights, the inability to obtain or retain licenses required by us to operate our plants or import or export our goods or raw materials, the expropriation or nationalization of our assets, and restrictions on travel, payments or the movement of funds. in particular, if additional restrictions on trade with russia were adopted by the european union or the u.s., and were applicable to our products, we could lose sales and experience lower growth rates in the future. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on time or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. 14 if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. we may not be able to affect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities, the indentures that govern our senior notes and the agreements covering our accounts receivable securitization programs restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. in addition, we conduct a substantial portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, certain of which are not guarantors of our indebtedness. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. unless they are guarantors of our indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. while the indenture governing certain of our senior notes, these notes and the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities limit the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to qualifications and exceptions. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. if we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could terminate their commitments to loan money, the lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. the terms of our credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities and accounts receivable securitization programs and the indentures governing our senior notes restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. the indentures governing our senior notes and the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities and accounts receivable securitization programs contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to: incur additional indebtedness; pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; make loans and investments; sell assets; incur liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; alter the businesses we conduct; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. in addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit agreement governing our senior credit facilities require us to maintain a specified net leverage ratio. our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control. 15 a breach of the covenants under the indenture governing our senior notes or under the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. in addition, an event of default under the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities would permit the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under those facilities. furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our senior secured credit facilities, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. in the event our lenders or note holders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. as a result of these restrictions, we may be: limited in how we conduct our business; unable to respond to changing market conditions; unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns or to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due; or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. in addition, amounts available under our accounts receivable securitization programs can be impacted by a number of factors, including but not limited to our credit ratings, accounts receivable balances, the creditworthiness of our customers and our receivables collection experience. our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. if interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. as of december 31, 2016, we had $1.226 billion of borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities at variable interest rates. a 1/8% increase or decrease in the assumed interest rates on the senior secured credit facilities would result in a $1.5 million increase or decrease in annual interest expense. in the future, we may enter into interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility. however, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. raw material pricing, availability and allocation by suppliers as well as energy-related costs may negatively impact our results of operations, including our profit margins. we use petrochemical-based raw materials to manufacture many of our products. the prices for these raw materials are cyclical, and increases in market demand or fluctuations in the global trade for petrochemical- based raw materials and energy could increase our costs. in addition, the prices of many of the other key raw materials used in our businesses, such as caustic soda, solvents, waxes, phosphates, surfactants, polymers and resins, chelates and fragrances, are cyclical based on numerous supply and demand factors that are beyond our control. if we are unable to minimize the effects of increased raw material costs through sourcing, pricing or other actions, our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we also have some sole-source suppliers, and the lack of availability of supplies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers and suppliers of other raw materials in the future. these factors could lead to increased prices for our raw materials, curtailment of supplies and allocation of raw materials by our suppliers, which could reduce revenues and profit margins and harm relations with our customers and which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. unfavorable consumer responses to price increases could have a material adverse impact on our sales and earnings. from time to time, and especially in periods of rising raw material costs, we increase the prices of our products. significant price increases could impact our earnings depending on, among other factors, the pricing by competitors of similar products and the response by the customers to higher prices. such price increases may result in lower volume of sales and a subsequent decrease in gross margin and adversely impact earnings. 16 the full realization of our deferred tax assets may be affected by a number of factors, including our earnings in the u.s. we have deferred tax assets including state and foreign net operating loss carry forwards, foreign tax credits, accruals not yet deductible for tax purposes, employee benefit items and other items. we have established valuation allowances to reduce the deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. our ability to utilize the deferred tax assets depends in part upon our ability to generate future taxable income within each respective jurisdiction during the periods in which these temporary differences reverse or our ability to carryback any losses created by the deduction of these temporary differences. we expect to realize the assets over an extended period. if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in the u.s. and/or certain foreign jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. our effective tax rate would increase if we were required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. a significant deferred tax asset is our foreign tax credit carryforwards. the benefit from the amount carried forward may depend upon many factors, including the jurisdictional mix of our anticipated future earnings. a reduction in our anticipated u.s. earnings, or an unfavorable mix of domestic versus foreign-sourced u.s earnings may change our foreign tax credit position which could result in a significant increase in our effective tax rate and could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in the periods in which any such condition occurs. in addition, changes in statutory tax rates or other legislation or regulation may change our deferred tax assets or liability balances, with either favorable or unfavorable impacts on our effective tax rate. we may not achieve all of the expected benefits from our restructuring program. we have implemented a number of restructuring programs in the last few years.these programs include various cost savings and reorganization initiatives, including the relocation of our corporate headquarters to charlotte, north carolina, the consolidation of certain facilities and the reduction of headcount. we have made certain assumptions in estimating the anticipated savings we expect to achieve under such programs, which include the estimated savings from the elimination of certain headcount and the consolidation of facilities. these assumptions may turn out to be incorrect due to a variety of factors. in addition, our ability to realize the expected benefits from these programs is subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unsuccessful in implementing these programs or if we do not achieve our expected results, our consolidated results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected or our business operations could be disrupted. the effects of animal and food-related health issues, such as porcine epidemic diarrhea or ped , bovine spongiform encephalopathy, also known as mad cow disease, foot-and-mouth disease, avian influenza or bird-flu , as well as other health issues affecting the food industry, may lead to decreased revenues. we manufacture and sell food packaging products, among other products. various health issues affecting the food industry have in the past and may in the future have a negative effect on the sales of food packaging products. in recent years, occasional cases of ped and mad cow disease have been confirmed and incidents of bird-flu have surfaced in various countries. outbreaks of animal diseases may lead governments to restrict exports and imports of potentially affected animals and food products, leading to decreased demand for our products and possibly also to the culling or slaughter of significant numbers of the animal population otherwise intended for food supply. also, consumers may change their eating habits as a result of perceived problems with certain types of food. these factors may lead to reduced sales of food packaging products, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. risks related to implementation of our new global enterprise resource planning system. we are currently engaged in a multi-year process of conforming the majority of our operations onto one global enterprise resource planning system ( erp ). the erp is designed to improve the efficiency of our supply chain and financial transaction processes, accurately maintain our books and records, and provide information important to the operation of the business to our management team. the erp will continue to require significant investment of human and financial resources, and we may experience significant delays, increased costs and other difficulties as a result. any significant disruption or deficiency in the design and implementation of the erp could adversely affect our ability to fulfill and invoice customer orders, apply cash receipts, place purchase orders with suppliers, and make cash disbursements, and could negatively impact data processing and electronic communications among business locations, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we also face the challenge of supporting our older systems and implementing necessary upgrades to those systems while we implement the new erp system. while we have invested significant resources in planning and project management, significant implementation issues may arise. as of december 31, 2016, implementations have been substantially completed for our operations in north america, south america, australia/new zealand, and europe, with the exception of turkey and russia. more simplified implementations are scheduled to be completed in 2017 for singapore, philippines, indonesia and malaysia. 17 although the settlement agreement (as defined in note 17, commitments and contingencies ) has been implemented and we have been released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against us arising from a 1998 transaction with grace (as defined below), if the courts were to refuse to enforce the injunctions or releases contained in the plan (as defined below) and the settlement agreement with respect to any claims and if grace were unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us for such claims, then we could be required to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we are also a defendant in a number of asbestos-related actions in canada arising from grace's activities in canada prior to the 1998 transaction. on march 31, 1998, sealed air completed a multi-step transaction (the cryovac transaction ) involving w.r. grace &amp; co. ( grace ) which brought the cryovac packaging business and the former sealed air's business under the common ownership of the company. as part of that transaction, grace and its subsidiaries retained all liabilities arising out of their operations before the cryovac transaction (including asbestos-related liabilities), other than liabilities relating to cryovac's operations, and agreed to indemnify the company with respect to such retained liabilities. since the beginning of 2000, we have been served with a number of lawsuits alleging that, as a result of the cryovac transaction, we are responsible for alleged asbestos liabilities of grace and its subsidiaries. while they vary, these suits all appear to allege that the transfer of the cryovac business was a fraudulent transfer or gave rise to successor liability. on april 2, 2001, grace and a number of its subsidiaries filed petitions for reorganization under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code in the u.s. bankruptcy court for the district of delaware (the bankruptcy court ). in connection with grace's chapter 11 case, the bankruptcy court issued orders dated may 3, 2001 and january 22, 2002, staying all asbestos actions against the company (the preliminary injunction ). however, the official committees appointed to represent asbestos claimants in grace's chapter 11 case (the committees ) received the court's permission to pursue fraudulent transfer and other claims against the company and its subsidiary cryovac, inc. based upon the cryovac transaction. this proceeding was brought in the u.s. district court for the district of delaware (the district court ) (adv. no. 02-02210). on november 27, 2002, we reached an agreement in principle with the committees to resolve all current and future asbestos-related claims made against us and our affiliates in connection with the cryovac transaction. the settlement agreement provided for the resolution of the fraudulent transfer claims and successor liability claims, as well as indemnification claims by fresenius medical care holdings, inc. and affiliated companies in connection with the cryovac transaction. the parties to the agreement in principle signed the definitive settlement agreement as of november 10, 2003 consistent with the terms of the agreement in principle. on june 27, 2005, the bankruptcy court signed an order approving the settlement agreement. although grace is not a party to the settlement agreement, under the terms of the order, grace is directed to comply with the settlement agreement subject to limited exceptions. on september 19, 2008, grace, the official committee of asbestos personal injury claimants, the asbestos pi future claimants' representative, and the official committee of equity security holders filed, as co-proponents, a plan of reorganization (as filed and amended from time to time, the plan ) and several exhibits and associated documents, including a disclosure statement, with the bankruptcy court. the plan provides for the establishment of two asbestos trusts under section 524(g) of the united states bankruptcy code to which present and future asbestos-related personal injury and property damage claims are channeled. the plan incorporates the settlement agreement, including our payment of amounts contemplated by the settlement agreement and the releases and injunctions contemplated by the settlement agreement. on february 3, 2014 (the effective date ), the plan implementing the settlement agreement became effective with grace emerging from bankruptcy. in accordance with the plan and the settlement agreement, on the effective date, cryovac, inc. made aggregate cash payments in the amount of $929.7 million to the wrg asbestos pi trust (the pi trust ) and the wrg asbestos pd trust (the pd trust ) and transferred 18 million shares of sealed air common stock to the pi trust, in each case reflecting adjustments made in accordance with the settlement agreement. under the plan, the preliminary injunction remained in place through the effective date and, on the effective date, the plan and settlement agreement injunctions and releases with respect to asbestos claims and certain other claims became effective. following the effective date, the bankruptcy court issued an order dismissing the proceedings pursuant to which the preliminary injunction was issued. the plan further provides for the channeling of existing and future asbestos claims to the pi trust or the pd trust, as applicable. in addition, under the plan and the settlement agreement, grace is required to indemnify us with respect to asbestos and certain other liabilities. notwithstanding the foregoing, and although we believe the possibility to be remote, if any courts were to refuse to enforce the injunctions or releases contained in the plan and the settlement agreement with respect to any claims, and if, in addition, grace were unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us for such claims, then we could be required to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. 18 from november 2004, the company and specified subsidiaries were named as defendants in a number of cases, including a number of putative class actions, brought in canada as a result of grace's alleged marketing, manufacturing or distributing of asbestos or asbestos containing products in canada prior to the cryovac transaction in 1998. grace agreed to defend and indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases. a global settlement of these canadian claims to be funded by grace has been approved by the canadian court, and the plan provides for payment of these claims. we do not have any positive obligations under the canadian settlement, but we are a beneficiary of the release of claims. the release in favor of the grace parties (including us) became operative upon the effective date of a plan of reorganization in grace's united states chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding. as filed, the plan contemplates that the claims released under the canadian settlement will be subject to injunctions under section 524(g) of the bankruptcy code. as indicated above, the bankruptcy court entered the bankruptcy court confirmation order on january 31, 2011 and the clarifying order on february 15, 2011 and the district court entered the original district court confirmation order on january 30, 2012 and the amended district court confirmation order on june 11, 2012. the canadian court issued an order on april 8, 2011 recognizing and giving full effect to the bankruptcy court's confirmation order in all provinces and territories of canada in accordance with the bankruptcy court confirmation order's terms. as described above, the plan became effective on february 3, 2014. in accordance with an order of the canadian court, on the effective date the actions became permanently stayed until they were amended to remove the grace parties as named defendants. two actions were dismissed by the manitoba court as against the grace parties on february 19, 2014. the remaining actions were either dismissed or discontinued with prejudice by the canadian courts as against the grace parties in may and june 2015, but for two actions in the province of quebec, which were discontinued by order of the quebec court in february 2016. notwithstanding the foregoing, and although we believe the possibility to be remote, if the canadian courts refuse to enforce the final plan of reorganization in the canadian courts, and if in addition grace is unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases, then we could be required to pay damages, which we cannot estimate at this time. for further information concerning these matters, see note 17, commitments and contingencies of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the u.s. internal revenue service (the irs ) has indicated that it intends to disallow our deduction of the approximately $1.49 billion for the payments made pursuant to the settlement agreement (as defined in note 17, commitments and contingencies ). we are currently under examination by the irs with respect to the deduction of the approximately $1.49 billion for the 2014 taxable year for the payments made pursuant to the settlement agreement. the irs has indicated that it intends to disallow this deduction in full. we strongly disagree with the irs position and are protesting this finding with the office of appeals of the irs. the resolution of the irs's challenge could take several years and the outcome cannot be predicted. nevertheless, we believe that we have meritorious defenses for the deduction of the payments made pursuant to the settlement agreement. if the irs's disallowance of the deduction were sustained, in whole or in part, we would have to remit all or a portion of the refund of taxes previously received, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations . for further information concerning this matter, see note 17, commitments and contingencies of the notes to consolidated financial statements. demand for our products could be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences. our sales depend heavily on the volumes of sales by our customers in the food processing and food service industries. consumer preferences for food and packaging formats of prepackaged food can influence our sales, as can consumer preferences for fresh and unpackaged foods. changes in consumer behavior, including changes in consumer preferences driven by various health-related concerns and perceptions, could negatively impact demand for our products. the consolidation of customers may adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. customers in the food service, food and beverage processing, building care, lodging, industrial distribution and healthcare sectors have been consolidating in recent years, and we believe this trend may continue. such consolidation could have an adverse impact on the pricing of our products and services and our ability to retain customers, which could in turn adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we experience competition in the markets for our products and services and in the geographic areas in which we operate. our packaging products compete with similar products made by other manufacturers and with a number of other types of materials or products. we compete on the basis of performance characteristics of our products, as well as service, price and innovations in technology. a number of competing domestic and foreign companies are well-established. the market for our hygiene products is highly competitive. our hygiene products businesses face significant competition from global, national, regional and local companies within some or all of our product lines in each sector that we serve. barriers to entry and expansion in the institutional and industrial cleaning, sanitation and hygiene industry are low. 19 our inability to maintain a competitive advantage could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes for our products. additionally, we may not successfully implement our pricing actions. these factors may have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. concerns about greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions and climate change and the resulting governmental and market responses to these issues could increase costs that we incur and could otherwise affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives have been enacted and proposed in response to concerns about ghg emissions and climate change. we are a manufacturing entity that utilizes petrochemical-based raw materials to produce many of our products, including plastic packaging materials. increased environmental legislation or regulation could result in higher costs for us in the form of higher raw materials and freight and energy costs. we could also incur additional compliance costs for monitoring and reporting emissions and for maintaining permits. it is also possible that certain materials might cease to be permitted to be used in our processes. disruption and volatility of the financial and credit markets could affect our external liquidity sources. our principal sources of liquidity are accumulated cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flow from operations and amounts available under our lines of credit, including our senior secured credit facilities and our accounts receivable securitization programs. we may be unable to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our senior notes, our accounts receivable securitization programs and our senior secured credit facilities, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. additionally, conditions in financial markets could affect financial institutions with which we have relationships and could result in adverse effects on our ability to utilize fully our committed borrowing facilities. for example, a lender under the senior secured credit facilities may be unwilling or unable to fund a borrowing request, and we may not be able to replace such lender. strengthening of the u.s. dollar and other foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could materially impact our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. approximately 62% of our net sales in 2016 were generated outside the united states. we translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currency into u.s. dollars for our consolidated financial statements. during periods of a strengthening u.s. dollar, our reported international sales and net earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer u.s. dollars. also, while we often produce in the same geographic markets as our products are sold, expenses are more concentrated in the u.s. than sales, so that in a time of strengthening of the u.s. dollar, our profit margins could be reduced. while we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency exposures, this does not insulate us completely from foreign currency effects and exposes us to counterparty credit risk for non-performance. see note 12, derivatives and hedging activities of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we have recognized foreign exchange gains and losses related to the currency devaluations in venezuela and its designation as a highly inflationary economy under u.s. gaap. see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards of the notes to consolidated financial statements under the section impact of inflation and currency fluctuation venezuela. in all jurisdictions in which we operate, we are also subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions. these laws and regulations may limit our ability to repatriate cash as dividends or otherwise to the u.s. and may limit our ability to convert foreign currency cash flows into u.s. dollars. new and stricter legislation and regulations may affect our business and consolidated financial condition and results of operations. increased legislative and regulatory activity and burdens, and a more stringent manner in which they are applied (particularly in the u.s.), could significantly impact our business and the economy as a whole. this includes, among other things, the possible taxation under u.s. law of certain income from foreign operations, compliance costs and enforcement under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank act), and costs associated with complying with the patient protection and affordable care act of 2010 and the regulations promulgated thereunder. 20 for example, under section 1502 of the dodd-frank act, the sec has adopted additional disclosure requirements related to the source of certain conflict minerals for issuers for which such conflict minerals are necessary to the functionality or product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by that issuer. the metals covered by the rules include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, commonly referred to as 3tg. our suppliers may use some or all of these materials in their production processes. the sec's rules require us to perform due diligence on our suppliers. global supply chains can have multiple layers, thus the costs of complying with these requirements could be substantial. these requirements may also reduce the number of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. compliance costs and the unavailability of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. as another example, the affordable care act (the aca ), which was adopted in 2010 and is being phased in over several years, significantly affects the provision of both healthcare services and benefits in the u.s.; the aca may impact our cost of providing our employees and retirees with health insurance and/or benefits, and may also impact various other aspects of our business. we provide benefits to our employees which are competitive within the industries in which we operate. the aca did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations in 2016, 2015 or 2014; however, we are continuing to assess the impact of the aca on our healthcare benefit costs. the regulatory environment is still developing, and the potential exists for future legislation and regulations to be adopted. these developments, as well as the increasingly strict regulatory environment, may also adversely affect the customers to which, and the markets into which, we sell our products, and increase our costs and otherwise negatively affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations, including in ways that cannot yet be foreseen. our annual effective income tax rate can change materially as a result of changes in our mix of u.s. and foreign earnings and other factors, including changes in tax laws and changes made by regulatory authorities. our overall effective income tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of total earnings before tax. however, income tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global basis but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis. losses in one jurisdiction may not be used to offset profits in other jurisdictions and may cause an increase in our tax rate. changes in the mix of earnings (or losses) between jurisdictions and assumptions used in the calculation of income taxes, among other factors, could have a significant effect on our overall effective income tax rate. we are subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. as a result, any adverse development in the tax laws of any of these jurisdictions or any disagreement with our tax positions could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to taxation in, and to the tax laws and regulations of, multiple jurisdictions as a result of the international scope of our operations and our corporate and financing structure. we are also subject to transfer pricing laws with respect to our intercompany transactions, including those relating to the flow of funds among our companies. adverse developments in these laws or regulations, or any change in position regarding the application, administration or interpretation thereof, in any applicable jurisdiction, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of our operations. in addition, the tax authorities in any applicable jurisdiction, including the u.s., may disagree with the positions we have taken or intend to take regarding the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions. if any applicable tax authorities, including u.s. tax authorities, were to successfully challenge the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of our operations. our performance and prospects for future growth could be adversely affected if new products do not meet sales or margin expectations. our competitive advantage is due in part to our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the development and introduction cycle of new products can be lengthy and involve high levels of investment. new products may not meet sales or margin expectations due to many factors, including our inability to (i) accurately predict demand, end-user preferences and evolving industry standards; (ii) resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner; or (iii) achieve manufacturing efficiencies. 21 a major loss of or disruption in our manufacturing and distribution operations or our information systems and telecommunication resources could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we experienced a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or other severe weather event, or a casualty loss from an event such as a fire or flood, at one of our larger strategic facilities or if such event affected a key supplier, our supply chain or our information systems and telecommunication resources, then there could be a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on internal and third party information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. in particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for fulfilling and invoicing customer orders, applying cash receipts, and placing purchase orders with suppliers, making cash disbursements, and conducting digital marketing activities, data processing and electronic communications among business locations. we also depend on telecommunication systems for communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. future system disruptions, security breaches or shutdowns could significantly disrupt our operations or result in lost or misappropriated information and may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. as a result of previous acquisitions, including diversey, we recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets and we may never realize the full carrying value of these assets. as a result of certain acquisitions, including the acquisition of diversey, we recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including customer relationships, trademarks and developed technologies. we test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for possible impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. amortizable intangible assets are periodically reviewed for possible impairment whenever there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. impairment may result from, among other things, (i) a decrease in our expected net earnings; (ii) adverse equity market conditions; (iii) a decline in current market multiples; (iv) a decline in our common stock price; (v) a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climates; (vi) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; (vii) heightened competition; (viii) strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions; or (ix) a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of. in the event that we determine that events or circumstances exist that indicate that the carrying value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, we might have to recognize a non-cash impairment of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial results or harm our reputation or the value of our brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of our products arise in the ordinary course of our business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm our reputation in the marketplace or adversely impact the value of our brands or our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. we could also be required to recall possibly defective products, or voluntarily do so, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, potential product liabilities claims could be excluded or exceed coverage limits under the terms of our insurance policies or could result in increased costs for such coverage. it is uncertain we will be able to fully replace the business we lose once the agreement with s.c. johnson &amp; son, inc. ( scj ) expires later this year. in october 2016 we announced a mutual agreement to end the existing business relating to diversey's distribution of scj branded products to the professional market, effective may 2, 2017 (with the exception of australia, new zealand, argentina, chile, czech republic and poland, which ended on january 1, 2017). although the loss of this business will have a negative impact on results of operations near term, we are actively working to replace our scj sales and to develop new products to replace the scj products. it is uncertain when and if we will be able to fully replace this lost business, which could also negatively impact our future results of operations. 22 the relationship with unilever plc ( unilever ) is important to our diversey care segment and any damage to this relationship could have a material adverse effect on this segment. diversey is a party to various agreements with unilever under which it is granted a license to produce and sell professional size packs of unilever's consumer brand cleaning products in the institutional and industrial channels of trade, which expires at the end of 2017 (with the exception of a sub-set of the uk business which expires at the end of 2022). although the term of this agreement may be extended, it is uncertain that the parties will agree to do so. in addition, diversey also holds licenses to use some trademarks and technology of unilever in the market for institutional and industrial cleaning, sanitation and hygiene products and related services. if we default under our agreements with unilever and the agreements are terminated, unilever fails to perform its obligations under these agreements, or our relationship with unilever is otherwise damaged or severed, this could have a material adverse effect on our diversey care segment, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we are unable to retain key employees and other personnel, our consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other key personnel. their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us, and we need their expertise to execute our business strategies. if any of our senior management or other key personnel cease to work for us and we are unable to successfully replace any departing senior management or key personnel, our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we could experience disruptions in operations and/or increased labor costs. in europe and latin america, most of our employees are represented by either labor unions or workers councils and are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are generally renewable on an annual basis. as is the case with any negotiation, we may not be able to negotiate acceptable new collective bargaining agreements, which could result in strikes or work stoppages by affected workers. renewal of collective bargaining agreements could also result in higher wages or benefits paid to union members. a disruption in operations or higher ongoing labor costs could materially affect our business. we are subject to a variety of environmental and product registration laws that expose us to potential financial liability and increased operating costs. our operations are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the manufacture of our products, the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil and water and the use, handling, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. many jurisdictions require us to have operating permits for our production and warehouse facilities and operations. any failure to obtain, maintain or comply with the terms of these permits could result in fines or penalties, revocation or nonrenewal of our permits, or orders to cease certain operations, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we generate, use and dispose of hazardous materials in our manufacturing processes. in the event our operations result in the release of hazardous materials into the environment, we may become responsible for the costs associated with the investigation and remediation of sites at which we have released pollutants, or sites where we have disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes, even if we fully complied with environmental laws at the time of disposal. we have been, and may continue to be, responsible for the cost of remediation at some locations. some jurisdictions have laws and regulations that govern the registration and labeling of some of our products. we expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our european operations as a result of a european union ( eu ) directive registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals (eu directive no. 2006/1907) enacted on december 18, 2006. the directive imposes several requirements related to the identification and management of risks related to chemical substances manufactured or marketed in europe. the eu has also recently enacted a classification, packaging and labeling regulation. other jurisdictions may impose similar requirements. we cannot predict with reasonable certainty the future cost to us of environmental compliance, product registration, or environmental remediation. environmental laws have become more stringent and complex over time. our environmental costs and operating expenses will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the scope and timing of the effectiveness of requirements in these various jurisdictions. as a result of such requirements, we may be subject to an increased regulatory burden, and we expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our operations. increased compliance costs, increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, or our inability to market some of our products in certain jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 23 our insurance policies may not cover all operating risks and a casualty loss beyond the limits of our coverage could adversely impact our business. our business is subject to operating hazards and risks relating to handling, storing, transporting and use of the products we sell. we maintain insurance policies in amounts and with coverage and deductibles that we believe are reasonable and prudent. nevertheless, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us from all liabilities and expenses that may arise from claims for personal injury or death or property damage arising in the ordinary course of business, and our current levels of insurance may not be maintained or available in the future at economical prices. if a significant liability claim is brought against us that are not adequately covered by insurance, we may have to pay the claim with our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we are not able to protect our trade secrets or maintain our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property, we may not be able to prevent competitors from developing similar products or from marketing their products in a manner that capitalizes on our trademarks, and this loss of a competitive advantage could decrease our profitability and liquidity. our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. if we were unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property and our significant current or proposed products, this loss of a competitive advantage could result in decreased sales or increased operating costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we rely on trade secrets to maintain our competitive position, including protecting the formulation and manufacturing techniques of many of our products. as such, we have not sought u.s. or international patent protection for some of our principal product formulas and manufacturing processes. accordingly, we may not be able to prevent others from developing products that are similar to or competitive with our products. we own a large number of patents and pending patent applications on our products, aspects thereof, methods of use and/or methods of manufacturing. there is a risk that our patents may not provide meaningful protection and patents may never be issued for our pending patent applications. we own, or have licenses to use, all of the material trademark and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our major products both in the u.s. and in other countries where our products are principally sold. trademark and trade name protection is important to our business. although most of our trademarks are registered in the u.s. and in the foreign countries in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s. the costs required to protect our trademarks and trade names may be substantial. we cannot be certain that we will be able to assert these intellectual property rights successfully in the future or that they will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute the value of our intellectual property in the marketplace. third parties, including competitors, may assert intellectual property infringement or invalidity claims against us that could be upheld. intellectual property litigation, which could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by us, may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or proprietary technology or for us to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of others' proprietary rights. we may not prevail in any such litigation, and if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on reasonable terms or at all. any failure by us to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. cyber risk and the failure to maintain the integrity of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties with which we do business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to an increasing number of information technology vulnerabilities, threats and targeted computer crimes which pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of our networks or systems, could result in the loss of customers and business opportunities, legal liability, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensatory costs, and additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. while we attempt to mitigate these risks, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced and persistent threats. 24 we also maintain and have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer controls. despite our efforts to protect such sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, our facilities and systems and those of our customers and third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors that could lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. risks relating to our proposed spin-off or sale of our diversey care division and the food hygiene and cleaning business within our food care division ( new diversey ) we previously announced a plan to pursue a tax-free spin-off or sale of new diversey. any spin-off or sale would be contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, will require significant time and attention of our management and may have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations, even if it is not completed. we announced a plan to pursue a tax-free spin-off or sale of new diversey. any spin-off or sale will be subject to various conditions and may be affected by unanticipated developments or changes in market conditions. completion of a spin-off or sale will be contingent upon several factors, including, but not limited to, authorization and approval of our board of directors, receipt of governmental and regulatory approvals of the transactions contemplated by the spin-off or sale, execution of intercompany agreements, and, in the case of a spin-off, confirmation of the tax-free status of the spin-off and the effectiveness of a registration statement with the sec. for these and other reasons, a spin-off or sale of new diversey may not be completed during 2017, if at all. even if we do not complete a spin-off or sale of new diversey, our ongoing businesses may be adversely affected, and we may be subject to certain risks and consequences, including, but not limited to, the following: execution of any proposed spin-off or sale will require significant time and attention from management, which may postpone the execution of other initiatives that may have been beneficial to us; we will be required to pay certain costs and expenses relating to any proposed spin-off or sale process, such as legal, accounting and other professional fees, whether or not a spin-off or sale is completed; and we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets if we fail to complete a spin-off or sale of new diversey. we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from any spin-off or sale of new diversey. although we believe that separating new diversey from the company will provide financial, operational, managerial and other benefits to us and our stockholders, a spin-off or sale may not provide such results on the scope or scale we anticipate, and we may not realize the assumed benefits of such spin-off or sale. in addition, we will incur one-time costs in connection with a spin-off or sale that may exceed our estimates and negate some of the benefits we expect to achieve. if we do not realize these assumed benefits, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if any proposed spin-off of new diversey is completed, the trading price of our common stock may be expected to decline. we expect the trading price of our common stock immediately following any proposed spin-off to be significantly lower than immediately preceding the spin-off because the trading price of our common stock will no longer reflect the value of new diversey. following any proposed spin-off, the combined market value of the shares of common stock held in the company and in new diversey may be less than what the market value of the company's common stock would have been had no spin-off occurred. the common stock of the company and of any new, independent company that operates new diversey that you may hold following any proposed spin-off may collectively trade at a price that is less than the price at which the company's common stock would have traded had no spin-off occurred. the combined market value of your common stock in the company and in the new, independent company that operates new diversey will depend on the future performance of the company and that new company as separate, independent companies, the nature of the stockholder base of each company, how the market for the company's common stock and the common stock of the company operating new diversey may differ and the prices at which each company's shares subsequently trade. 25 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in the conditions in the global financial markets, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices and the creditworthiness of our customers and suppliers, which may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we seek to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. we do not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rates from time to time, we may use interest rate swaps, collars or options to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. at december 31, 2016, we had no outstanding interest rate swaps and no outstanding interest rate collars or options. the information set forth in note 12, derivatives and hedging activities, of the notes to consolidated financial statements under the caption interest rate swaps, is incorporated herein by reference. see note 13, fair value measurements and other financial instruments, of the notes to consolidated financial statements for details of the methodology and inputs used to determine the fair value of our fixed rate debt. the fair value of our fixed rate debt varies with changes in interest rates. generally, the fair value of fixed rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease of $85 million in the fair value of the total debt balance at december 31, 2016. these changes in the fair value of our fixed rate debt do not alter our obligations to repay the outstanding principal amount or any related interest of such debt. 68 foreign exchange rates operations as a large global organization, we face exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could materially impact our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in the future. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, above for the impacts foreign currency translation had on our operations. venezuela economic and political events in venezuela have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risk. see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards of the notes to consolidated financial statements under the section impact of inflation and currency fluctuation - venezuela for additional details. argentina recent economic events in argentina, including the default on some of its international debt obligations, have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risks. however, as of december 31, 2016, we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact to our 2017 outlook discussed above. for 2016, about 2% of our consolidated net sales and operating income were derived from our businesses in argentina. as of december 31, 2016, we had net assets of $25 million (including $5 million of cash and cash equivalents) in argentina. also, as of december 31, 2016, our argentina subsidiaries had a negative cumulative translation adjustment balance of $45 million. russia the u.s. and the european union (eu) have recently imposed sanctions on various sectors of the russian economy and on transactions with certain russian nationals and entities. russia has also announced economic sanctions against the u.s. and other nations that include a ban on imports of certain products. these sanctions are not expected to have a material impact on our business as much of the operations in russia support local production; however they may limit the amount of future business the company does with customers involved in activities in russia. however, as of december 31, 2016, we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact to our 2017 outlook discussed above. as of december 31, 2016, less than 2% of our consolidated net sales were derived from products sold into russia. as of december 31, 2016, we had net assets of $76 million (including $5 million of cash and cash equivalents) in russia. also, as of december 31, 2016, our russia subsidiaries had a negative cumulative translation adjustment balance of $48 million. greece recent economic events in greece, including missing payment to the international monetary fund and the uncertainties relating to the ability of greece to remain in the european monetary union may require us to tighten credit controls that will have adverse impact on our sales and bad debt expense. however, as of december 31, 2016, we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact on our 2017 results of operations. as of december 31, 2016, less than 1% of our consolidated net sales were derived from products sold into greece. as of december 31, 2016, we had net assets of $19 million (including $4 million of cash and cash equivalents) in greece. also, as of december 31, 2016, our greece subsidiaries had a negative cumulative translation adjustment balance of $5 million. brazil recent economic events in brazil, including the increase in the benchmark interest rate set by the brazilian central bank, have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risks. however, as of december 31, 2016, we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact on our 2017 results of operations. as of december 31, 2016, about 3% of our consolidated net sales were derived from products sold into brazil. as of december 31, 2016, we had net assets of $180 million (including $6 million of cash and cash equivalents) in brazil. also, as of december 31, 2016, our brazil subsidiaries had a negative cumulative translation adjustment balance of $103 million. 69 united kingdom recent economic events in united kingdom, including their intention to exit from the european union may require us to tighten credit controls that will have adverse impact on our sales and bad debt expense. however, as of december 31, 2016, we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact on our 2017 results of operations. as of december 31, 2016, about 5% of our consolidated net sales were derived from products sold into united kingdom. as of december 31, 2016, we had net assets of $330 million (including $12 million of cash and cash equivalents) in united kingdom. also, as of december 31, 2016, our united kingdom subsidiaries had a negative cumulative translation adjustment balance of $74 million. impact of inflation and currency fluctuation economic and political events in certain countries have exposed us to heightened levels of inflation and foreign currency exchange risks. the effects of these could impact our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards in the notes to consolidated financial statements for details regarding the impact of inflation and currency fluctuation. also, for a discussion of our risk factors, please refer to part ii, item 1a, risk factors. foreign currency forward contracts we use foreign currency forward contracts to fix the amounts payable or receivable on some transactions denominated in foreign currencies. a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates at december 31, 2016 would have caused us to pay approximately $50 million to terminate these contracts. based on our overall foreign exchange exposure, we estimate this change would not materially affect our financial position and liquidity. the effect on our results of operations would be substantially offset by the impact of the hedged items. our foreign currency forward contracts are described in note 12, derivatives and hedging activities, which is contained in the notes to consolidated financial statements, and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources derivative financial instruments foreign currency forward contracts, contained in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k, which information is incorporated herein by reference. interest rate and currency swap in 2014, in connection with exercising the $100 million delayed draw under the senior secured credit facility, we entered into a series of interest rate and currency swaps in a notional amount of $100 million. on september 30, 2016, the first $20 million swap contract matured and was settled. as a result of the settlement, the company received $5 million. these swaps convert the u.s. dollar-denominated variable rate obligation under the senior secured credit facility into a fixed brazilian real-denominated obligation. the delayed draw and the interest rate and currency swaps are used to fund expansion and general corporate purposes of our brazilian subsidiaries. net investment hedge during the second quarter of 2015, we entered into a series of foreign currency exchange forwards totaling 270 million. these foreign currency exchange forwards hedged a portion of the net investment in a certain european subsidiary against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and expired in june 2015. the loss of $4 million ($2 million after tax) is recorded in aoci on our consolidated balance sheet. the 400 million 4.50% notes issued in june 2015 are designated as a net investment hedge, hedging a portion of our net investment in a certain european subsidiary against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. the change in the fair value of the debt was $29 million ($18 million after tax) at december 31, 2016, and is reflected in long-term debt on our consolidated balance sheet. in march 2015, we entered into a series of cross-currency swaps with a combined notional amount of $425 million, hedging a portion of the net investment in a certain european subsidiary against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. the fair value of this hedge as of december 31, 2016 was $(5) million ($(3) million after tax) on our consolidated balance sheet. semi-annual interest settlements resulted in aoci of $14 million ($9 million after tax). for derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedges of net investments in foreign operations, settlements and changes in fair values of the derivative instruments are recognized in unrealized net gains or loss on derivative instruments for net investment hedge, a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of taxes, to offset the changes in the values of the net investments being hedged. any portion of the net investment hedge that is determined to be ineffective is recorded in other income, net on the consolidated statements of operations. 70 other derivative instruments we may use other derivative instruments from time to time to manage exposure to foreign exchange rates and to access to international financing transactions. these instruments can potentially limit foreign exchange exposure by swapping borrowings denominated in one currency for borrowings denominated in another currency. outstanding debt our outstanding debt is generally denominated in the functional currency of the borrower. we believe that this enables us to better match operating cash flows with debt service requirements and to better match the currency of assets and liabilities. the amount of outstanding debt denominated in a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar was $875 million at december 31, 2016 and $1 billion at december 31, 2015. customer credit we are exposed to credit risk from our customers. in the normal course of business we extend credit to our customers if they satisfy pre-defined credit criteria. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the failure of our customers to make required payments. an additional allowance may be required if the financial condition of our customers deteriorates. the allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that management assesses to be appropriate to absorb estimated losses in the accounts receivable portfolio. our customers may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. our provision for bad debt expense was $4 million in 2016, $4 million in 2015 and $8 million in 2014. the allowance for doubtful accounts was $20 million at december 31, 2016 and $25 million at december 31, 2015. pensions recent market conditions have resulted in an unusually high degree of volatility and increased risks and short-term liquidity concerns associated with some of the plan assets held by our defined benefit pension plans, which have impacted the performance of some of the plan assets. based upon the annual valuation of our defined benefit pension plans at december 31, 2016, we expect our net periodic benefit income to be approximately $3 million in 2017. see note 14, profit sharing, retirement savings plans and defined benefit pension plans, of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further details on our defined benefit pension plans. commodities we use various commodity raw materials such as plastic resins and other chemicals and energy products such as electric power and natural gas in conjunction with our manufacturing processes. generally, we acquire these components at market prices in the region in which they will be used and do not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. moreover, we seek to maintain appropriate levels of commodity raw material inventories thus minimizing the expense and risks of carrying excess inventories. we do not typically purchase substantial quantities in advance of production requirements. as a result, we are exposed to market risks related to changes in commodity prices of these components. 71risk factors 10 risk factors introduction the risks described below should be carefully considered before making an investment decision. these are the most significant risk factors, but they are not the only risk factors that should be considered in making an investment decision. this form 10-k also contains and may incorporate by reference forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. see the cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements, in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. the trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks, and investors in our securities may lose all or part of their investment. uncertain global economic conditions have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. uncertain global economic conditions have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business in the form of lower net sales due to weakened demand, unfavorable changes in product price/mix, or lower profit margins. for example, global economic downturns have adversely impacted some of our end-users and customers, such as food processors, distributors, supermarket retailers, hotels, restaurants, retail establishments, other retailers, business service contractors and e-commerce and mail order fulfillment firms, and other end-users that are particularly sensitive to business and consumer spending. during economic downturns or recessions, there can be a heightened competition for sales and increased pressure to reduce selling prices as our customers may reduce their volume of purchases from us. if we lose significant sales volume or reduce selling prices significantly, then there could be a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations, profitability and cash flows. 10 also, reduced availability of credit may adversely affect the ability of some of our customers and suppliers to obtain funds for operations and capital expenditures. this could negatively impact our ability to obtain necessary supplies as well as our sales of materials and equipment to affected customers. this also could result in reduced or delayed collections of outstanding accounts receivable. the global nature of our operations exposes us to numerous risks that could materially adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we operate in 58 countries/regions, and our products are distributed to 122 countries/regions around the world. a large portion of our manufacturing operations are located outside of the u.s. and a majority of our net sales are generated outside of the u.s. these operations, particularly in developing regions, are subject to various risks that may not be present or as significant for our u.s. operations. economic uncertainty in some of the geographic regions in which we operate, including developing regions, could result in the disruption of commerce and negatively impact cash flows from our operations in those areas. risks inherent in our international operations include: foreign currency exchange controls and tax rates; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including devaluations; the potential for changes in regional and local economic conditions, including local inflationary pressures; restrictive governmental actions such as those on transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection matters, including antidumping duties, tariffs, embargoes and prohibitions or restrictions on acquisitions or joint ventures; changes in laws and regulations, including the laws and policies of the u.s. affecting trade and foreign investment; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; variations in protection of intellectual property and other legal rights; more expansive legal rights of foreign unions or works councils; changes in labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; import and export delays caused, for example, by an extended strike at the port of entry, could cause a delay in our supply chain operations; social plans that prohibit or increase the cost of certain restructuring actions; the potential for nationalization of enterprises or facilities; and unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against u.s. or other interests. in addition, there are potential tax inefficiencies and tax costs in repatriating funds from our non-u.s. subsidiaries. these and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. fluctuations between foreign currencies and the u.s. dollar could materially impact our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. approximately 49% of our net sales in 2017 were generated outside the u.s. we translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currency into u.s. dollars for our consolidated financial statements. as a result, the company is exposed to currency fluctuations both in receiving cash from its international operations and in translating its financial results back to u.s. dollars. during periods of a strengthening u.s. dollar, our reported international sales and net earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer u.s. dollars. foreign exchange rates can also impact the competitiveness of products produced in certain jurisdictions and exported for sale into other jurisdictions. these changes may impact the value received for the sale of our goods versus those of our competitors. the company cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations on its future operating results. as exchange rates vary, the company's results of operations and profitability may be harmed. while we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency exposures, this does not insulate us completely from foreign currency effects and exposes us to counterparty credit risk for non-performance. see note 12, derivatives and hedging activities of the notes to consolidated financial statements. such hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial effect resulting from foreign currency variations. the gains or losses associated with hedging activities may harm the company's results of operations. in all jurisdictions in which we operate, we are also subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions. these laws and regulations may limit our ability to repatriate cash as dividends or otherwise to the u.s. and may limit our ability to convert foreign currency cash flows into u.s. dollars. 11 we have recognized foreign exchange gains and losses related to the currency devaluations in venezuela and its designation as a highly inflationary economy under u.s. gaap. see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards of the notes to consolidated financial statements under the section impact of inflation and currency fluctuation venezuela. raw material pricing, availability and allocation by suppliers as well as energy-related costs may negatively impact our results of operations, including our profit margins. we use petrochemical-based raw materials to manufacture many of our products. the prices for these raw materials are cyclical, and increases in market demand or fluctuations in the global trade for petrochemical- based raw materials and energy could increase our costs. while, historically we have been able to successfully manage the impact of higher raw material costs by increasing our selling prices, if we are unable to minimize the effects of increased raw material costs through sourcing, pricing or other actions, our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we also have some sole-source suppliers, and the lack of availability of supplies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers and suppliers of other raw materials in the future. these factors could lead to increased prices for our raw materials, curtailment of supplies and allocation of raw materials by our suppliers, which could reduce revenues and profit margins and harm relations with our customers and which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. unfavorable customer responses to price increases could have a material adverse impact on our sales and earnings. from time to time, and especially in periods of rising raw material costs, we increase the prices of our products. significant price increases could impact our earnings depending on, among other factors, the pricing by competitors of similar products and the response by the customers to higher prices. such price increases may result in lower volume of sales and a subsequent decrease in gross margin and adversely impact earnings. demand for our products could be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences. our sales depend heavily on the volumes of sales by our customers in the food processing and food service industries. consumer preferences for food and packaging formats of prepackaged food can influence our sales, as can consumer preferences for fresh and unpackaged foods. changes in consumer behavior, including changes in consumer preferences driven by various health-related concerns and perceptions, could negatively impact demand for our products. the consolidation of customers may adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. customers in the food service, food and beverage processing sectors have been consolidating in recent years, and we believe this trend may continue. such consolidation could have an adverse impact on the pricing of our products and services and our ability to retain customers, which could in turn adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we experience competition in the markets for our products and services and in the geographic areas in which we operate. our packaging products compete with similar products made by other manufacturers and with a number of other types of materials or products. we compete on the basis of performance characteristics of our products, as well as service, price and innovations in technology. a number of competing domestic and foreign companies are well-established. our inability to maintain a competitive advantage could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes for our products. additionally, we may not successfully implement our pricing actions. these factors may have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. cyber risk and the failure to maintain the integrity of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties with which we do business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to an increasing number of information technology vulnerabilities, threats and targeted computer crimes which pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. 12 disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of our networks or systems, could result in the loss of customers and business opportunities, legal liability, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensatory costs, and additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. while we attempt to mitigate these risks, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced and persistent threats. we also maintain and have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer controls. despite our efforts to protect such sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, our facilities and systems and those of our customers and third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors that could lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. the effects of animal and food-related health issues, such as porcine epidemic diarrhea or ped , bovine spongiform encephalopathy, also known as mad cow disease, foot-and-mouth disease, avian influenza or bird-flu , as well as other health issues affecting the food industry, may lead to decreased revenues. we manufacture and sell food packaging products, among other products. various health issues affecting the food industry have in the past and may in the future have a negative effect on the sales of food packaging products. in recent years, occasional cases of ped and mad cow disease have been confirmed and incidents of bird-flu have surfaced in various countries/regions. outbreaks of animal diseases may lead governments to restrict exports and imports of potentially affected animals and food products, leading to decreased demand for our products and possibly also to the culling or slaughter of significant numbers of the animal population otherwise intended for food supply. also, consumers may change their eating habits as a result of perceived problems with certain types of food. these factors may lead to reduced sales of food packaging products, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. our performance and prospects for future growth could be adversely affected if new products do not meet sales or margin expectations. our competitive advantage is due in part to our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the development and introduction cycle of new products can be lengthy and involve high levels of investment. new products may not meet sales or margin expectations due to many factors, including our inability to (i) accurately predict demand, end-user preferences and evolving industry standards; (ii) resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner; or (iii) achieve manufacturing efficiencies. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial results or harm our reputation or the value of our brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of our products arise in the ordinary course of our business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm our reputation in the marketplace or adversely impact the value of our brands or our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. we could also be required to recall possibly defective products, or voluntarily do so, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, potential product liabilities claims could be excluded or exceed coverage limits under the terms of our insurance policies or could result in increased costs for such coverage. we may not achieve all of the expected benefits from our restructuring program. we have implemented a number of restructuring programs in the last few years. these programs include various cost savings and reorganization initiatives, including the relocation of our corporate headquarters to charlotte, north carolina, the consolidation of certain facilities and the reduction of headcount. we have made certain assumptions in estimating the anticipated savings we expect to achieve under such programs, which include the estimated savings from the elimination of certain headcount and the consolidation of facilities. these assumptions may turn out to be incorrect due to a variety of factors. in addition, our ability to realize the expected benefits from these programs is subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unsuccessful in implementing 13 these programs or if we do not achieve our expected results, our consolidated results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected or our business operations could be disrupted. political and economic instability and risk of government actions affecting our business and our customers or suppliers may adversely impact our business, results of operations and cash flows. we are exposed to risks inherent in doing business in each of the countries/regions or regions in which we or our customers or suppliers operate including: civil unrest, acts of terrorism, sabotage, epidemics, force majeure, war or other armed conflict and related government actions, including sanctions/embargoes, the deprivation of contract rights, the inability to obtain or retain licenses required by us to operate our plants or import or export our goods or raw materials, the expropriation or nationalization of our assets, and restrictions on travel, payments or the movement of funds. in particular, if additional restrictions on trade with russia were adopted by the european union or the u.s., and were applicable to our products, we could lose sales and experience lower growth rates in the future. a major loss of or disruption in our manufacturing and distribution operations or our information systems and telecommunication resources could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we experienced a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or other severe weather event, or a casualty loss from an event such as a fire or flood, at one of our larger strategic facilities or if such event affected a key supplier, our supply chain or our information systems and telecommunication resources, then there could be a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on internal and third party information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. in particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for fulfilling and invoicing customer orders, applying cash receipts, and placing purchase orders with suppliers, making cash disbursements, and conducting digital marketing activities, data processing and electronic communications among business locations. we also depend on telecommunication systems for communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. future system disruptions, security breaches or shutdowns could significantly disrupt our operations or result in lost or misappropriated information and may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we are unable to retain key employees and other personnel, our consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other key personnel. their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us, and we need their expertise to execute our business strategies. if any of our senior management or other key personnel cease to work for us and we are unable to successfully replace any departing senior management or key personnel, our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we could experience disruptions in operations and/or increased labor costs. in europe and latin america, most of our employees are represented by either labor unions or workers councils and are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are generally renewable on an annual basis. as is the case with any negotiation, we may not be able to negotiate acceptable new collective bargaining agreements, which could result in strikes or work stoppages by affected workers. renewal of collective bargaining agreements could also result in higher wages or benefits paid to union members. a disruption in operations or higher ongoing labor costs could materially affect our business. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on time or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. we may not be able to affect 14 any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities, the indentures that govern our senior notes and the agreements covering our accounts receivable securitization programs restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. in addition, we conduct a substantial portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, certain of which are not guarantors of our indebtedness. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. unless they are guarantors of our indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. while the indenture governing certain of our senior notes, these notes and the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities limit the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to qualifications and exceptions. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. if we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could terminate their commitments to loan money, the lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. the terms of our credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities and accounts receivable securitization programs and the indentures governing our senior notes restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. the indentures governing our senior notes and the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities and accounts receivable securitization programs contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to: incur additional indebtedness; pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; make loans and investments; sell assets; incur liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; alter the businesses we conduct; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. in addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit agreement governing our senior credit facilities require us to maintain a specified net leverage ratio. our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control. a breach of the covenants under the indenture governing our senior notes or under the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. in addition, an event of default under the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities would permit the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under those facilities. furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our senior secured credit facilities, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. in the event our 15 lenders or note holders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. as a result of these restrictions, we may be: limited in how we conduct our business; unable to respond to changing market conditions; unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns or to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due; or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. in addition, amounts available under our accounts receivable securitization programs can be impacted by a number of factors, including but not limited to our credit ratings, accounts receivable balances, the creditworthiness of our customers and our receivables collection experience. our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. if interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. as of december 31, 2017 , we had $226 million of borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities at variable interest rates. a 1/8% increase or decrease in the assumed interest rates on the senior secured credit facilities would result in a $0.3 million increase or decrease in annual interest expense. in the future, we may enter into interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility. however, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. the full realization of our deferred tax assets may be affected by a number of factors, including our earnings in the u.s. we have deferred tax assets including state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards, foreign tax credits, accruals not yet deductible for tax purposes, employee benefit items and other items. we have established valuation allowances to reduce the deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. our ability to utilize the deferred tax assets depends in part upon our ability to generate future taxable income within each respective jurisdiction during the periods in which these temporary differences reverse or our ability to carryback any losses created by the deduction of these temporary differences. we expect to realize the assets over an extended period. if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in the u.s. and/or certain foreign jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. our effective tax rate would increase if we were required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. a significant deferred tax asset is our foreign tax credit carryforwards. the benefit from the amount carried forward may depend upon many factors, including the jurisdictional mix of our anticipated future earnings. a reduction in our anticipated u.s. earnings, or an unfavorable mix of domestic versus foreign-sourced u.s. earnings may change our foreign tax credit position which could result in a significant increase in our effective tax rate and could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in the periods in which any such condition occurs. in addition, changes in statutory tax rates or other legislation or regulation may change our deferred tax assets or liability balances, with either favorable or unfavorable impacts on our effective tax rate. although the settlement agreement (as defined in note 17, commitments and contingencies ) has been implemented and we have been released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against us arising from a 1998 transaction with grace (as defined below), if the courts were to refuse to enforce the injunctions or releases contained in the plan (as defined below) and the settlement agreement with respect to any claims and if grace were unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us for such claims, then we could be required to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we were also a defendant in a number of asbestos-related actions in canada arising from grace's activities in canada prior to the 1998 transaction. on march 31, 1998, sealed air completed a multi-step transaction (the cryovac transaction ) involving w.r. grace &amp; co. ( grace ) which brought the cryovac packaging business and the former sealed air's business under the common 16 ownership of the company. as part of that transaction, grace and its subsidiaries retained all liabilities arising out of their operations before the cryovac transaction (including asbestos-related liabilities), other than liabilities relating to cryovac's operations, and agreed to indemnify the company with respect to such retained liabilities. since the beginning of 2000, we have been served with a number of lawsuits alleging that, as a result of the cryovac transaction, we are responsible for alleged asbestos liabilities of grace and its subsidiaries. while they vary, these suits all appeared to allege that the transfer of the cryovac business was a fraudulent transfer or gave rise to successor liability. on april 2, 2001, grace and a number of its subsidiaries filed petitions for reorganization under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code in the u.s. bankruptcy court for the district of delaware (the bankruptcy court ). in connection with grace's chapter 11 case, the bankruptcy court issued orders dated may 3, 2001 and january 22, 2002, staying all asbestos actions against the company (the preliminary injunction ). however, the official committees appointed to represent asbestos claimants in grace's chapter 11 case (the committees ) received the court's permission to pursue fraudulent transfer and other claims against the company and its subsidiary cryovac, inc. based upon the cryovac transaction. this proceeding was brought in the u.s. district court for the district of delaware (the district court ) (adv. no. 02-02210). on november 27, 2002, we reached an agreement in principle with the committees to resolve all current and future asbestos-related claims made against us and our affiliates in connection with the cryovac transaction. the settlement agreement provided for the resolution of the fraudulent transfer claims and successor liability claims, as well as indemnification claims by fresenius medical care holdings, inc. and affiliated companies in connection with the cryovac transaction. the parties to the agreement in principle signed the definitive settlement agreement as of november 10, 2003 consistent with the terms of the agreement in principle. on june 27, 2005, the bankruptcy court signed an order approving the settlement agreement. although grace was not a party to the settlement agreement, under the terms of the order, grace was directed by the bankruptcy court to comply with the settlement agreement subject to limited exceptions. on september 19, 2008, grace, the official committee of asbestos personal injury claimants, the asbestos pi future claimants' representative, and the official committee of equity security holders filed, as co-proponents, a plan of reorganization (as filed and amended from time to time, the plan ) and several exhibits and associated documents, including a disclosure statement, with the bankruptcy court. the plan provided for the establishment of two asbestos trusts under section 524(g) of the u.s. bankruptcy code to which present and future asbestos-related personal injury and property damage claims are channeled. the plan incorporated the settlement agreement, including our payment of amounts contemplated by the settlement agreement and the releases and injunctions contemplated by the settlement agreement. on february 3, 2014 (the effective date ), the plan implementing the settlement agreement became effective with grace emerging from bankruptcy. in accordance with the plan and the settlement agreement, on the effective date, cryovac, inc. made aggregate cash payments in the amount of $929.7 million to the wrg asbestos pi trust (the pi trust ) and the wrg asbestos pd trust (the pd trust ) and transferred 18 million shares of sealed air common stock to the pi trust, in each case reflecting adjustments made in accordance with the settlement agreement. under the plan, the preliminary injunction remained in place through the effective date and, on the effective date, the plan and settlement agreement injunctions and releases with respect to asbestos claims and certain other claims became effective. following the effective date, the bankruptcy court issued an order dismissing the proceedings pursuant to which the preliminary injunction was issued. the plan provides for the channeling of existing and future asbestos claims to the pi trust or the pd trust, as applicable. in addition, under the plan and the settlement agreement, grace is required to indemnify us with respect to asbestos and certain other liabilities. notwithstanding the foregoing, and although we believe the possibility to be remote, if any courts were to refuse to enforce the injunctions or releases contained in the plan and the settlement agreement with respect to any claims, and if, in addition, grace were unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us for such claims, then we could be required to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. from november 2004, the company and specified subsidiaries were named as defendants in a number of cases, including a number of putative class actions, brought in canada as a result of grace's alleged marketing, manufacturing or distributing of asbestos or asbestos containing products in canada prior to the cryovac transaction in 1998. grace agreed to defend and indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases. a global settlement of these canadian claims to be funded by grace has been approved by the canadian court, and the plan provides for payment of these claims. we do not have any positive obligations under the canadian settlement, but we are a beneficiary of the release of claims. the release in favor of the grace parties (including us) became operative upon the effective date of a plan of reorganization in grace's u.s. chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding. as filed, the plan contemplates that the claims released under the canadian settlement will be subject to injunctions under section 524(g) of the bankruptcy code. as indicated above, the bankruptcy court entered the bankruptcy court confirmation order on january 31, 2011 and the clarifying order on february 15, 2011 and the district court entered the original district court confirmation order on january 30, 2012 and the amended district court confirmation order on june 11, 2012. the canadian court issued an order on april 8, 2011 recognizing and giving full effect to the bankruptcy 17 court's confirmation order in all provinces and territories of canada in accordance with the bankruptcy court confirmation order's terms. as described above, the plan became effective on february 3, 2014. in accordance with an order of the canadian court, on the effective date the actions became permanently stayed until they were amended to remove the grace parties as named defendants. two actions were dismissed by the manitoba court as against the grace parties on february 19, 2014. the remaining actions were either dismissed or discontinued with prejudice by the canadian courts as against the grace parties in may and june 2015, but for two actions in the province of quebec, which were discontinued by order of the quebec court in february 2016. notwithstanding the foregoing, and although we believe the possibility to be remote, if the canadian courts refuse to enforce the final plan of reorganization in the canadian courts, and if in addition grace is unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases, then we could be required to pay damages, which we cannot estimate at this time. for further information concerning these matters, see note 17, commitments and contingencies of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the u.s. internal revenue service (the irs ) has indicated that it intends to disallow our deduction of the approximately $1.49 billion for the payments made pursuant to the settlement agreement (as defined in note 17, commitments and contingencies ). we are currently under examination by the irs with respect to the deduction of the approximately $1.49 billion for the 2014 taxable year for the payments made pursuant to the settlement agreement. the irs has indicated that it intends to disallow this deduction in full. we strongly disagree with the irs position and are protesting this finding with the irs. the resolution of the irs's challenge could take several years and the outcome cannot be predicted. nevertheless, we believe that we have meritorious defenses for the deduction of the payments made pursuant to the settlement agreement. if the irs's disallowance of the deduction were sustained, in whole or in part, we would have to remit all or a portion of the refund of taxes previously received, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. for further information concerning this matter, see note 17, commitments and contingencies of the notes to consolidated financial statements. disruption and volatility of the financial and credit markets could affect our external liquidity sources. our principal sources of liquidity are accumulated cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flow from operations and amounts available under our lines of credit, including our senior secured credit facilities and our accounts receivable securitization programs. we may be unable to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our senior notes, our accounts receivable securitization programs and our senior secured credit facilities, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. additionally, conditions in financial markets could affect financial institutions with which we have relationships and could result in adverse effects on our ability to utilize fully our committed borrowing facilities. for example, a lender under the senior secured credit facilities may be unwilling or unable to fund a borrowing request, and we may not be able to replace such lender. new and stricter legislation and regulations may affect our business and consolidated financial condition and results of operations. increased legislative and regulatory activity and burdens, and a more stringent manner in which they are applied (particularly in the u.s.), could significantly impact our business and the economy as a whole. this includes, among other things, interpretations and clarifications of recently enacted u.s. tax legislation, compliance costs and enforcement under the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank act), and costs associated with complying with the patient protection and affordable care act of 2010 and the regulations promulgated thereunder. for example, under section 1502 of the dodd-frank act, the sec has adopted additional disclosure requirements related to the source of certain conflict minerals for issuers for which such conflict minerals are necessary to the functionality or product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by that issuer. the metals covered by the rules include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, commonly referred to as 3tg. our suppliers may use some or all of these materials in their production processes. the sec's rules require us to perform due diligence on our suppliers. global supply chains can have multiple layers, thus the costs of complying with these requirements could be substantial. these requirements may also reduce the number of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. compliance costs and the unavailability of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. as another example, the affordable care act (the aca ), which was adopted in 2010 and is being phased in over several years, significantly affects the provision of both healthcare services and benefits in the u.s.; the aca may impact our 18 cost of providing our employees and retirees with health insurance and/or benefits, and may also impact various other aspects of our business. we provide benefits to our employees which are competitive within the industries in which we operate. the aca did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations in 2017, 2016 or 2015; however, we are continuing to assess the impact of the aca on our healthcare benefit costs. the regulatory environment is still developing, and the potential exists for future legislation and regulations to be adopted. these developments, as well as the increasingly strict regulatory environment, may also adversely affect the customers to which, and the markets into which, we sell our products, and increase our costs and otherwise negatively affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations, including in ways that cannot yet be foreseen. our annual effective income tax rate can change materially as a result of changes in our mix of u.s. and foreign earnings and other factors, including changes in tax laws and changes made by regulatory authorities. our overall effective income tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of total earnings before tax. however, income tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global basis but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis. losses in one jurisdiction may not be used to offset profits in other jurisdictions and may cause an increase in our tax rate. changes in the mix of earnings (or losses) between jurisdictions and assumptions used in the calculation of income taxes, among other factors, could have a significant effect on our overall effective income tax rate. we are subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. as a result, any adverse development in the tax laws of any of these jurisdictions or any disagreement with our tax positions could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to taxation in, and to the tax laws and regulations of, multiple jurisdictions as a result of the international scope of our operations and our corporate and financing structure. tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. the u.s. recently enacted significant tax reform, and certain provisions of the new law may adversely affect us. many countries in the european union, as well as a number of other countries and organizations such as the organization for economic cooperation and development, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws that, if enacted, could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business. additional changes in tax laws could increase our overall taxes and our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations could be adversely effected in a material way. in addition, the tax authorities in any applicable jurisdiction, including the u.s., may disagree with the positions we have taken or intend to take regarding the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions. if any applicable tax authorities, including u.s. tax authorities, were to successfully challenge the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of our operations. u.s. federal income tax reform could adversely affect us. the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act (the "tcja"), which was enacted on december 22, 2017, significantly affects u.s. tax law by changing how the u.s. imposes income tax on multinational corporations. the tcja, among other things, reduces the u.s. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, creates a territorial tax system with a one-time mandatory tax on previously deferred foreign earnings of u.s. subsidiaries, and creates a new tax on certain foreign earnings. we continue to examine the impact the tcja may have on our business. the tcja requires complex computations not previously provided in u.s. tax law. as such, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain. further, compliance with the tcja and the accounting for such provisions require the accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced. as a result, and in conjunction with the complexity of the tax implications associated with the sale of diversey, we are in the process of quantifying the mandatory tax on previously deferred foreign earnings of our u.s. subsidiaries. this amount could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and/or statement of cash flows. concerns about greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions and climate change and the resulting governmental and market responses to these issues could increase costs that we incur and could otherwise affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives have been enacted and proposed in response to concerns about ghg emissions and climate change. we are a manufacturing entity that utilizes petrochemical-based raw materials to produce many of our products, including plastic packaging materials. increased environmental legislation or regulation could result in higher costs for us in the form of higher raw materials, freight and energy costs. we could also incur additional compliance costs for monitoring and reporting emissions and for maintaining permits. it is also possible that certain materials might cease to be permitted to be used in our processes. 19 we are subject to a variety of environmental and product registration laws that expose us to potential financial liability and increased operating costs. our operations are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the manufacture of our products, the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil and water and the use, handling, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. many jurisdictions require us to have operating permits for our production and warehouse facilities and operations. any failure to obtain, maintain or comply with the terms of these permits could result in fines or penalties, revocation or nonrenewal of our permits, or orders to cease certain operations, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we generate, use and dispose of hazardous materials in our manufacturing processes. in the event our operations result in the release of hazardous materials into the environment, we may become responsible for the costs associated with the investigation and remediation of sites at which we have released pollutants, or sites where we have disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes, even if we fully complied with environmental laws at the time of disposal. we have been, and may continue to be, responsible for the cost of remediation at some locations. some jurisdictions have laws and regulations that govern the registration and labeling of some of our products. we expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our european operations as a result of a european union ( eu ) directive registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals (eu directive no. 2006/1907) enacted on december 18, 2006. the directive imposes several requirements related to the identification and management of risks related to chemical substances manufactured or marketed in europe. the eu has also recently enacted a classification, packaging and labeling regulation. other jurisdictions may impose similar requirements. we cannot predict with reasonable certainty the future cost to us of environmental compliance, product registration, or environmental remediation. environmental laws have become more stringent and complex over time. our environmental costs and operating expenses will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the scope and timing of the effectiveness of requirements in these various jurisdictions. as a result of such requirements, we may be subject to an increased regulatory burden, and we expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our operations. increased compliance costs, increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, or our inability to market some of our products in certain jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. our insurance policies may not cover all operating risks and a casualty loss beyond the limits of our coverage could adversely impact our business. our business is subject to operating hazards and risks relating to handling, storing, transporting and use of the products we sell. we maintain insurance policies in amounts and with coverage and deductibles that we believe are reasonable and prudent. nevertheless, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us from all liabilities and expenses that may arise from claims for personal injury or death or property damage arising in the ordinary course of business, and our current levels of insurance may not be maintained or available in the future at economical prices. if a significant liability claim is brought against us that are not adequately covered by insurance, we may have to pay the claim with our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we are not able to protect our trade secrets or maintain our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property, we may not be able to prevent competitors from developing similar products or from marketing their products in a manner that capitalizes on our trademarks, and this loss of a competitive advantage could decrease our profitability and liquidity. our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. if we were unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property and our significant current or proposed products, this loss of a competitive advantage could result in decreased sales or increased operating costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we rely on trade secrets to maintain our competitive position, including protecting the formulation and manufacturing techniques of many of our products. as such, we have not sought u.s. or international patent protection for some of our principal product formulas and manufacturing processes. accordingly, we may not be able to prevent others from developing products that are similar to or competitive with our products. 20 we own a large number of patents and pending patent applications on our products, aspects thereof, methods of use and/or methods of manufacturing. there is a risk that our patents may not provide meaningful protection and patents may never be issued for our pending patent applications. we own, or have licenses to use, all of the material trademark and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our major products both in the u.s. and in other countries/regions where our products are principally sold. trademark and trade name protection is important to our business. although most of our trademarks are registered in the u.s. and in the foreign countries/regions in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries/regions may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s. the costs required to protect our trademarks and trade names may be substantial. we cannot be certain that we will be able to assert these intellectual property rights successfully in the future or that they will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute the value of our intellectual property in the marketplace. third parties, including competitors, may assert intellectual property infringement or invalidity claims against us that could be upheld. intellectual property litigation, which could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by us, may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or proprietary technology or for us to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of others' proprietary rights. we may not prevail in any such litigation, and if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on reasonable terms or at all. any failure by us to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. as a result of acquisitions we may record a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets and we may never realize the full carrying value of the related assets. as a result of acquisitions we record a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including customer relationships, trademarks and developed technologies. we test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for possible impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. amortizable intangible assets are periodically reviewed for possible impairment whenever there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. impairment may result from, among other things, (i) a decrease in our expected net earnings; (ii) adverse equity market conditions; (iii) a decline in current market multiples; (iv) a decline in our common stock price; (v) a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climates; (vi) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; (vii) heightened competition; (viii) strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions; or (ix) a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of. in the event that we determine that events or circumstances exist that indicate that the carrying value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, we might have to recognize a non-cash impairment of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in the conditions in the global financial markets, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices and the creditworthiness of our customers and suppliers, which may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we seek to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. we do not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rates from time to time, we may use interest rate swaps, collars or options to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. at december 31, 2017 , we had no outstanding interest rate swaps and no outstanding interest rate collars or options. the information set forth in note 12, derivatives and hedging activities, of the notes to consolidated financial statements under the caption interest rate swaps, is incorporated herein by reference. see note 13, fair value measurements and other financial instruments, of the notes to consolidated financial statements for details of the methodology and inputs used to determine the fair value of our fixed rate debt. the fair value of our fixed rate debt varies with changes in interest rates. generally, the fair value of fixed rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease of $72 million in the fair value of the total debt balance at december 31, 2017 . these changes in the fair value of our fixed rate debt do not alter our obligations to repay the outstanding principal amount or any related interest of such debt. foreign exchange rates operations as a large global organization, we face exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could materially impact our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in the future. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, above for the impacts foreign currency translation had on our operations. venezuela economic and political events in venezuela have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risk. see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards of the notes to consolidated financial statements under the section impact of inflation and currency fluctuation - venezuela for additional details. argentina recent economic events in argentina, including the default on some of its international debt obligations, have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risks. however, as of december 31, 2017 , we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact to our 2018 results of operations. for 2017, about 1% of our consolidated net sales and operating income were derived from our businesses in argentina. as of december 31, 2017 , we had net assets of $9 million (including less than $1 million of cash and cash equivalents) in argentina. also, as of december 31, 2017 , our argentina subsidiaries had a negative cumulative translation adjustment balance of $21 million. russia the u.s. and the european union (eu) have recently imposed sanctions on various sectors of the russian economy and on transactions with certain russian nationals and entities. russia has also announced economic sanctions against the u.s. and other nations that include a ban on imports of certain products. these sanctions are not expected to have a material impact on our business as much of the operations in russia support local production; however they may limit the amount of future business the company does with customers involved in activities in russia. however, as of december 31, 2017 , we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact to our 2018 result of operations. as of december 31, 2017 , about 2% of our consolidated net sales were derived from products sold into russia. as of december 31, 2017 , we had net assets of $50 million 59 (including $3 million of cash and cash equivalents) in russia. also, as of december 31, 2017 , our russia subsidiaries had a negative cumulative translation adjustment balance of $23 million. greece recent economic events in greece, including missing payment to the international monetary fund and the uncertainties relating to the ability of greece to remain in the european monetary union may require us to tighten credit controls that will have adverse impact on our sales and bad debt expense. however, as of december 31, 2017 , we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact on our 2018 results of operations. as of december 31, 2017 , less than 1% of our consolidated net sales were derived from products sold into greece. as of december 31, 2017 , we had net assets of $7 million (including less $5 million of cash and cash equivalents) in greece. also, as of december 31, 2017 , our greece subsidiaries had a positive cumulative translation adjustment balance of less than $1 million. brazil recent economic events in brazil, including the increase in the benchmark interest rate set by the brazilian central bank, have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risks. however, as of december 31, 2017 , we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact on our 2018 results of operations. as of december 31, 2017 , about 3% of our consolidated net sales were derived from products sold into brazil. as of december 31, 2017 , we had net assets of $116 million (including $6 million of cash and cash equivalents) in brazil. also, as of december 31, 2017 , our brazil subsidiaries had a negative cumulative translation adjustment balance of $26 million. united kingdom recent economic events in united kingdom, including their intention to exit from the european union may require us to tighten credit controls that will have adverse impact on our sales and bad debt expense. however, as of december 31, 2017 , we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact on our 2018 results of operations. as of december 31, 2017 , about 4% of our consolidated net sales were derived from products sold into united kingdom. as of december 31, 2017 , we had net assets of $254 million (including $2 million of cash and cash equivalents) in united kingdom. also, as of december 31, 2017 , our united kingdom subsidiaries had a negative cumulative translation adjustment balance of $17 million. impact of inflation and currency fluctuation economic and political events in certain countries have exposed us to heightened levels of inflation and foreign currency exchange risks. the effects of these could impact our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards in the notes to consolidated financial statements for details regarding the impact of inflation and currency fluctuation. also, for a discussion of our risk factors, please refer to part ii, item 1a, risk factors. foreign currency forward contracts we use foreign currency forward contracts to fix the amounts payable or receivable on some transactions denominated in foreign currencies. a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates at december 31, 2017 would have caused us to pay approximately $67 million to terminate these contracts. based on our overall foreign exchange exposure, we estimate this change would not materially affect our financial position and liquidity. the effect on our results of operations would be substantially offset by the impact of the hedged items. our foreign currency forward contracts are described in note 12, derivatives and hedging activities, which is contained in the notes to consolidated financial statements, and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources derivative financial instruments foreign currency forward contracts, contained in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k, which information is incorporated herein by reference. interest rate and currency swap in 2014 in connection with exercising the $100 million delayed draw under the senior secured credit facility, we entered into a series of interest rate and currency swaps in a notional amount of $100 million . on september 30, 2016, the first $20 million swap contract matured and was settled. as a result of the settlement, the company received $5 million . for the year ended december 31, 2017 , net cash received for these swaps was $15 million . in july 2017, we prepaid the brazilian tranche of 60 our term loan a facility due in july 2019 in the amount of $96 million in connection with the anticipated diversey transaction. in anticipation of this loan prepayment, we terminated all the swaps used to convert the related u.s. dollar-denominated variable rate obligation into a fixed brazilian real-denominated obligation. the related activity has been classified as net earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax on the consolidated statement of operations. net investment hedge during the second quarter of 2015, we entered into a series of foreign currency exchange forwards totaling 270 million. these foreign currency exchange forwards hedged a portion of the net investment in a certain european subsidiary against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and expired in june 2015. the loss of $4 million ($2 million after tax) is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income ("aoci") on our consolidated balance sheet. the 400 million 4.50% notes issued in june 2015 are designated as a net investment hedge, hedging a portion of our net investment in a certain european subsidiary against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. the change in the fair value of the debt was $28 million ($17 million after tax) as of december 31, 2017 , and is reflected in long-term debt on our consolidated balance sheet. in march 2015, we entered into a series of cross-currency swaps with a combined notional amount of $425 million, hedging a portion of the net investment in a certain european subsidiary against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. as a result of the sale of diversey, we terminated these cross-currency swaps in september 2017 and settled these swaps in october 2017. the fair value of the swaps on the date of termination was a liability of $62 million which was partially offset by semi-annual interest settlements of $18 million. this resulted in a net impact of $(44) million recorded in aoci. for derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedges of net investments in foreign operations, settlements and changes in fair values of the derivative instruments are recognized in unrealized net gains or loss on derivative instruments for net investment hedge, a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of taxes, to offset the changes in the values of the net investments being hedged. any portion of the net investment hedge that is determined to be ineffective is recorded in other income, net on the consolidated statements of operations. other derivative instruments we may use other derivative instruments from time to time to manage exposure to foreign exchange rates and to access to international financing transactions. these instruments can potentially limit foreign exchange exposure by swapping borrowings denominated in one currency for borrowings denominated in another currency. outstanding debt our outstanding debt is generally denominated in the functional currency of the borrower or in euros as is the case with the issuance of 400 million of 4.50% senior notes due 2023. we believe that this enables us to better match operating cash flows with debt service requirements and to better match the currency of assets and liabilities. the amount of outstanding debt denominated in a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar was $544 million at december 31, 2017 and $875 million at december 31, 2016. customer credit we are exposed to credit risk from our customers. in the normal course of business we extend credit to our customers if they satisfy pre-defined credit criteria. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the failure of our customers to make required payments. an additional allowance may be required if the financial condition of our customers deteriorates. the allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that management assesses to be appropriate to absorb estimated losses in the accounts receivable portfolio. our customers may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. our provision for bad debt expense was less than $1 million for the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015. the allowance for doubtful accounts was $7 million at december 31, 2017 and $8 million at december 31, 2016. pensions recent market conditions have resulted in an unusually high degree of volatility and increased risks and short-term liquidity concerns associated with some of the plan assets held by our defined benefit pension plans, which have impacted the 61 performance of some of the plan assets. based upon the annual valuation of our defined benefit pension plans at december 31, 2017 , we expect our net periodic benefit income to be approximately $9 million in 2018. see note 14, profit sharing, retirement savings plans and defined benefit pension plans, of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further details on our defined benefit pension plans. commodities we use various commodity raw materials such as plastic resins and other chemicals and energy products such as electric power and natural gas in conjunction with our manufacturing processes. generally, we acquire these components at market prices in the region in which they will be used and do not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. moreover, we seek to maintain appropriate levels of commodity raw material inventories thus minimizing the expense and risks of carrying excess inventories. we do not typically purchase substantial quantities in advance of production requirements. as a result, we are exposed to market risks related to changes in commodity prices of these components. 62risk factors 8 risk factors introduction the risks described below should be carefully considered before making an investment decision. these are the most significant risk factors, but they are not the only risk factors that should be considered in making an investment decision. this form 10-k also contains and may incorporate by reference forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. see the cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements, in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. the trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks, and investors in our securities may lose all or part of their investment. uncertain global economic conditions have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. uncertain global economic conditions have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business in the form of lower net sales due to weakened demand, unfavorable changes in product price/mix, or lower profit margins. for example, global economic downturns have adversely impacted some of our end-users and customers, such as food processors, distributors, supermarket retailers, hotels, restaurants, retail establishments, other retailers, business service contractors and e-commerce and mail order fulfillment firms, and other end-users that are particularly sensitive to business and consumer spending. during economic downturns or recessions, there can be a heightened competition for sales and increased pressure to reduce selling prices as our customers may reduce their volume of purchases from us. if we lose significant sales volume or reduce selling prices significantly, then there could be a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations, profitability and cash flows. also, reduced availability of credit may adversely affect the ability of some of our customers and suppliers to obtain funds for operations and capital expenditures. this could negatively impact our ability to obtain necessary supplies as well as our sales of materials and equipment to affected customers. this also could result in reduced or delayed collections of outstanding accounts receivable. the global nature of our operations exposes us to numerous risks that could materially adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we operate in 48 countries/regions, and our products are distributed to 123 countries/regions around the world. a large portion of our manufacturing operations are located outside of the u.s. and a majority of our net sales are generated outside of the u.s. these operations, particularly in developing regions, are subject to various risks that may not be present or as significant for our u.s. operations. economic uncertainty in some of the geographic regions in which we operate, including developing regions, could result in the disruption of commerce and negatively impact cash flows from our operations in those areas. risks inherent in our international operations include: foreign currency exchange controls and tax rates; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including devaluations; the potential for changes in regional and local economic conditions, including local inflationary pressures or impacts resulting from the united kingdom's exit from the european union; restrictive governmental actions such as those on transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection matters, including antidumping duties, tariffs, embargoes and prohibitions or restrictions on acquisitions or joint ventures; changes in laws and regulations, including the laws and policies of the u.s. affecting trade and foreign investment; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; variations in protection of intellectual property and other legal rights; 8 more expansive legal rights of foreign unions or works councils; changes in labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; import and export delays caused, for example, by an extended strike at the port of entry, could cause a delay in our supply chain operations; social plans that prohibit or increase the cost of certain restructuring actions; the potential for nationalization of enterprises or facilities; unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against u.s. or other interests; and there are potential tax inefficiencies and tax costs in repatriating funds from our non-u.s. subsidiaries. these and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. fluctuations between foreign currencies and the u.s. dollar could materially impact our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. approximately 49% of our net sales in 2018 were generated outside the u.s. we translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currency into u.s. dollars for our consolidated financial statements. as a result, the company is exposed to currency fluctuations both in receiving cash from its international operations and in translating its financial results back to u.s. dollars. during periods of a strengthening u.s. dollar, our reported international sales and net earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer u.s. dollars. foreign exchange rates can also impact the competitiveness of products produced in certain jurisdictions and exported for sale into other jurisdictions. these changes may impact the value received for the sale of our goods versus those of our competitors. the company cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations on its future operating results. as exchange rates vary, the company's results of operations and profitability may be harmed. while we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency exposures, this does not insulate us completely from foreign currency effects and exposes us to counterparty credit risk for non-performance. see note 13, derivatives and hedging activities of the notes to consolidated financial statements. such hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial effect resulting from foreign currency variations. the gains or losses associated with hedging activities may harm the company's results of operations. in all jurisdictions in which we operate, we are also subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions. these laws and regulations may limit our ability to repatriate cash as dividends or otherwise to the u.s. and may limit our ability to convert foreign currency cash flows into u.s. dollars. we have recognized foreign exchange gains and losses related to the currency devaluations in argentina and venezuela and its designation as a highly inflationary economy under u.s. gaap. see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards of the notes to consolidated financial statements. raw material pricing, availability and allocation by suppliers as well as energy-related costs may negatively impact our results of operations, including our profit margins. we use petrochemical-based raw materials to manufacture many of our products. the prices for these raw materials are cyclical, and increases in market demand or fluctuations in the global trade for petrochemical- based raw materials and energy could increase our costs. while, historically we have been able to successfully manage the impact of higher raw material costs by increasing our selling prices, if we are unable to minimize the effects of increased raw material costs through sourcing, pricing or other actions, our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we also have some sole-source suppliers, and the lack of availability of supplies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers and suppliers of other raw materials in the future. these factors could lead to increased prices for our raw materials, curtailment of supplies and allocation of raw materials by our suppliers, which could reduce revenues and profit margins and harm relations with our customers and which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. unfavorable customer responses to price increases could have a material adverse impact on our sales and earnings. 9 from time to time, and especially in periods of rising raw material costs, we increase the prices of our products. significant price increases could impact our earnings depending on, among other factors, the pricing by competitors of similar products and the response by the customers to higher prices. such price increases may result in lower volume of sales and a subsequent decrease in gross margin and adversely impact earnings. we may not achieve all of the expected benefits from our restructuring program. we have implemented a number of restructuring programs, including various cost savings and reorganization initiatives. most recently the company announced a restructuring program as part of its reinvent see strategy. we have made certain assumptions in estimating the anticipated savings we expect to achieve under such programs, which include the estimated savings from the elimination of certain headcount and the consolidation of facilities. we have also made assumptions on the expected cash spend to achieve the anticipated savings. these assumptions may turn out to be incorrect due to a variety of factors. in addition, our ability to realize the expected benefits from these programs is subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unsuccessful in implementing these programs or if we do not achieve our expected results, our consolidated results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected or our business operations could be disrupted. demand for our products could be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences. our sales depend heavily on the volumes of sales by our customers in the food processing and food service industries. consumer preferences for food and packaging formats of prepackaged food can influence our sales, as can consumer preferences for fresh and unpackaged foods. changes in consumer behavior, including changes in consumer preferences driven by various health-related concerns and perceptions, could negatively impact demand for our products. the consolidation of customers may adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. customers in the food service, food and beverage processing sectors have been consolidating in recent years, and we believe this trend may continue. such consolidation could have an adverse impact on the pricing of our products and services and our ability to retain customers, which could in turn adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we experience competition in the markets for our products and services and in the geographic areas in which we operate. our packaging products compete with similar products made by other manufacturers and with a number of other types of materials or products. we compete on the basis of performance characteristics of our products, as well as service, price and innovations in technology. a number of competing domestic and foreign companies are well-established. our inability to maintain a competitive advantage could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes for our products. additionally, we may not successfully implement our pricing actions. these factors may have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to a variety of environmental and product registration laws that expose us to regulatory scrutiny, potential financial liability and increased operating costs. our operations are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the manufacture of our products, the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil and water and the use, handling, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. many jurisdictions require us to have operating permits for our production and warehouse facilities and operations. any failure to obtain, maintain or comply with the terms of these permits could result in fines or penalties, revocation or nonrenewal of our permits, or orders to cease certain operations, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we generate, use and dispose of hazardous materials in our manufacturing processes. in the event our operations result in the release of hazardous materials into the environment, we may become responsible for the costs associated with the investigation and remediation of sites at which we have released pollutants, or sites where we have disposed or arranged for the 10 disposal of hazardous wastes, even if we fully complied with environmental laws at the time of disposal. we have been, and may continue to be, responsible for the cost of remediation at some locations. some jurisdictions have laws and regulations that govern the registration and labeling of some of our products. we expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our european operations as a result of a european union ( eu ) directive registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals (eu directive no. 2006/1907) enacted on december 18, 2006. the directive imposes several requirements related to the identification and management of risks related to chemical substances manufactured or marketed in europe. the eu has also enacted a classification, packaging and labeling regulation. other jurisdictions may impose similar requirements. ongoing development of government policies to restrict waste imports, to ban single use plastics and to increase recycling and recovery such as those recently announced in the eu and china highlight a variety of financial liability and increased operating cost exposures. we are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that regulate products manufactured and sold by us for controlling microbial growth on humans, animals and processed foods. in the u.s., these requirements are generally administered by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ). we maintain programs designed to comply with these laws and regulations and to monitor their evolution. to date, the cost of complying with product registration requirements and fda compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we cannot predict with reasonable certainty the future cost to us of environmental compliance, product registration, or environmental remediation. environmental laws have become more stringent and complex over time. our environmental costs and operating expenses will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the scope and timing of the effectiveness of requirements in these various jurisdictions. as a result of such requirements, we may be subject to an increased regulatory burden, and we expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our operations. increased compliance costs, increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, or our inability to market some of our products in certain jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. our performance and prospects for future growth could be adversely affected if new products do not meet sales or margin expectations. our competitive advantage is due in part to our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the development and introduction cycle of new products can be lengthy and involve high levels of investment. new products may not meet sales or margin expectations due to many factors, including our inability to (i) accurately predict demand, end-user preferences and evolving industry and regulatory standards; (ii) resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner; or (iii) achieve manufacturing efficiencies. cyber risk and the failure to maintain the integrity of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties with which we do business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to an increasing number of information technology vulnerabilities, threats and targeted computer crimes which pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of our networks or systems, could result in the loss of customers and business opportunities, legal liability, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensatory costs, and additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. while we attempt to mitigate these risks, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced and persistent threats. we also maintain and have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer controls. despite our efforts to protect such sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, our facilities and systems and those of our customers and third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors that could lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. 11 we may not be able to complete future acquisitions or acquired businesses may underperform relative to our expectations. furthermore, we may not be able to successfully integrate these businesses without significant use of resources or diversion of management's attention. successful acquisition and integration of target companies may be limited by the availability of suitable acquisition candidates, the ability to obtain necessary third-party approvals and availability of financial resources. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulty determining valuation, integration of acquired operations, technologies, services and products, key personnel turnover, and the diversion of management's attention from other business matters. ultimately, we may be unable to achieve the expected benefits and synergies which could adversely affect our business. disruptive forces of nature, such as significant regional droughts, prolonged severe weather conditions, floods, natural disasters and large-scale animal health issues as well as other health issues affecting the food industry may lead to decreased revenues. we manufacture and sell food packaging products, among other products. various forces of nature affecting the food industry have in the past and may in the future have a negative effect on the sales of food packaging products. outbreaks of animal diseases may lead governments to restrict exports and imports of potentially affected animals and food products, leading to decreased demand for our products and possibly also to the culling or slaughter of significant numbers of the animal population otherwise intended for food supply. other disruptive forces of nature such as droughts, floods and other severe weather can lead to agricultural market impacts resulting in reduced herd size or modifications to the traditional herd cycles which could affect demand for our products. also, consumers may change their eating habits as a result of perceived problems with certain types of food. these factors may lead to reduced sales of food packaging products, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial results or harm our reputation or the value of our brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of our products arise in the ordinary course of our business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm our reputation in the marketplace or adversely impact the value of our brands or our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. we could also be required to recall possibly defective products, or voluntarily do so, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, potential product liabilities claims could be excluded or exceed coverage limits under the terms of our insurance policies or could result in increased costs for such coverage. changes in u.s. trade policies and regulations, as well as the overall uncertainty surrounding international trade relations, could materially adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. recent changes in u.s. trade policies, including tariffs on imports from china generally, have had, and we expect that they will continue to have, an adverse effect on our costs of products sold and margins in our north america segment. in november 2018, the united states-mexico-canada agreement (usmca), which is intended to replace the north american free trade agreement (nafta), was signed but has not yet been ratified. there remains uncertainty regarding when the usmca would be adopted as well as the specific impacts of the final agreement. further changes in u.s. trade policies may be put into place, including additional import tariffs and tariffs on raw materials imported from canada and mexico, if the replacement trade agreement reached by the three countries is not ratified. additional tariffs and changes to the u.s. trade policies would likely adversely impact our business. in response to these changes, other countries may change their own trade policies, including the imposition of additional tariffs and quotas, which could also adversely affect our business outside the u.s. in order to mitigate the impact of these trade-related increases on our costs of products sold, we may increase prices in certain markets and, over the longer term, make changes in our supply chain and, potentially, our u.s. manufacturing strategy. implementing price increases may cause our customers to find alternative sources for their products. we may be unable to successfully pass on these costs through price increases; adjust our supply chain without incurring significant costs; or locate alternative suppliers for raw materials or finished goods at acceptable costs or in a timely manner. further, the uncertainty surrounding u.s. trade policy makes it difficult to make long-term strategic decisions regarding the best way to respond to these pressures and could also increase the volatility of currency exchange rates. our inability to effectively manage the negative impacts of changing u.s. and foreign trade policies could materially adversely impact our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. 12 political and economic instability and risk of government actions affecting our business and our customers or suppliers may adversely impact our business, results of operations and cash flows. we are exposed to risks inherent in doing business in each of the countries/regions or regions in which we or our customers or suppliers operate including: civil unrest, acts of terrorism, sabotage, epidemics, force majeure, war or other armed conflict and related government actions, including sanctions/embargoes, the deprivation of contract rights, the inability to obtain or retain licenses required by us to operate our plants or import or export our goods or raw materials, the expropriation or nationalization of our assets, and restrictions on travel, payments or the movement of funds. in particular, if additional restrictions on trade with russia were adopted by the european union or the u.s., and were applicable to our products, we could lose sales and experience lower growth rates in the future. a major loss of or disruption in our manufacturing and distribution operations or our information systems and telecommunication resources could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we experienced a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or other severe weather event, or a casualty loss from an event such as a fire or flood, at one of our larger strategic facilities or if such event affected a key supplier, our supply chain or our information systems and telecommunication resources, then there could be a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on internal and third-party information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. in particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for fulfilling and invoicing customer orders, applying cash receipts, and placing purchase orders with suppliers, making cash disbursements, and conducting digital marketing activities, data processing and electronic communications among business locations. we also depend on telecommunication systems for communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. future system disruptions, security breaches or shutdowns could significantly disrupt our operations or result in lost or misappropriated information and may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we are unable to retain key employees and other personnel, our consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other key personnel. their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us, and we need their expertise to execute our business strategies. if any of our senior management or other key personnel cease to work for us and we are unable to successfully replace any departing senior management or key personnel, our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we could experience disruptions in operations and/or increased labor costs. in europe and latin america, most of our employees are represented by either labor unions or workers' councils and are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are generally renewable on an annual basis. as is the case with any negotiation, we may not be able to negotiate acceptable new collective bargaining agreements, which could result in strikes or work stoppages by affected workers. renewal of collective bargaining agreements could also result in higher wages or benefits paid to union members. a disruption in operations or higher ongoing labor costs could materially affect our business. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on time or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. we may not be able to affect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities, the indentures that govern our senior notes and the agreements covering our accounts receivable securitization programs restrict 13 our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. in addition, we conduct a substantial portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, certain of which are not guarantors of our indebtedness. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. unless they are guarantors of our indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. the indenture governing certain of our senior notes and the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities limit the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us. these limitations are subject to qualifications and exceptions. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. if we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could terminate their commitments to loan money, the lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. the terms of our credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities, our accounts receivable securitization programs and the indentures governing our senior notes restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. the indentures governing our senior notes and the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities and accounts receivable securitization programs contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to: incur additional indebtedness; pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; make loans and investments; sell assets; incur liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; alter the businesses we conduct; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. in addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit agreement governing our senior credit facilities require us to maintain a specified net leverage ratio. our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control. a breach of the covenants under the indenture governing our senior notes or under the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. in addition, an event of default under the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities would permit the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under those facilities. furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our senior secured credit facilities, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. in the event our lenders or note holders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. as a result of these restrictions, we may be: limited in how we conduct our business; 14 unable to respond to changing market conditions; unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns or to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due; or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. in addition, amounts available under our accounts receivable securitization programs can be impacted by a number of factors, including but not limited to our credit ratings, accounts receivable balances, the creditworthiness of our customers and our receivables collection experience. our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. if interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. as of december 31, 2018 , we had $224 million of long-term borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities at variable interest rates. a 1/8% increase or decrease in the assumed interest rates on the senior secured credit facilities would result in a $0.3 million increase or decrease in annual interest expense. in the future, we may enter into interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility. however, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. the full realization of our deferred tax assets may be affected by a number of factors, including our earnings in the u.s. we have deferred tax assets including state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards, accruals not yet deductible for tax purposes, employee benefit items and other items. we have established valuation allowances to reduce the deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. our ability to utilize the deferred tax assets depends in part upon our ability to generate future taxable income within each respective jurisdiction during the periods in which these temporary differences reverse or our ability to carryback any losses created by the deduction of these temporary differences. we expect to realize the assets over an extended period. if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in the u.s. and/or certain foreign jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. our effective tax rate would increase if we were required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. although the settlement agreement (as defined in note 18, commitments and contingencies ) has been implemented and we have been released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against us arising from a 1998 transaction with grace (as defined below), if the courts were to refuse to enforce the injunctions or releases contained in the plan (as defined below) and the settlement agreement with respect to any claims and if grace were unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us for such claims, then we could be required to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we were also a defendant in a number of asbestos-related actions in canada arising from grace's activities in canada prior to the 1998 transaction. on march 31, 1998, we completed a multi-step transaction (the cryovac transaction ) involving w.r. grace &amp; co. ( grace ) which brought the cryovac packaging business and the former sealed air's business under the common ownership of the company. as part of that transaction, grace and its subsidiaries retained all liabilities arising out of their operations before the cryovac transaction (including asbestos-related liabilities), other than liabilities relating to cryovac's operations, and agreed to indemnify the company with respect to such retained liabilities. beginning in 2000, we were served with a number of lawsuits alleging that the cryovac transaction was a fraudulent transfer or gave rise to successor liability or both, and as a result we were responsible for alleged asbestos liabilities of grace and its subsidiaries. on april 2, 2001, grace and a number of its subsidiaries filed petitions for reorganization under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code in the u.s. bankruptcy court for the district of delaware (the bankruptcy court ). in connection with grace's chapter 11 case, the bankruptcy court issued orders staying all asbestos actions against the company (the preliminary injunction ) but granted the official committees appointed to represent asbestos claimants in grace's chapter 11 case (the committees ) permission to pursue fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and other claims against the company and its subsidiary cryovac, inc. based upon the cryovac transaction. 15 on november 27, 2002, we reached an agreement in principle with the committees to resolve all current and future asbestos-related claims made against us and our affiliates, as well as indemnification claims by fresenius medical care holdings, inc. and affiliated companies, in each case, in connection with the cryovac transaction. a definitive settlement agreement was entered into as of november 10, 2003 consistent with the terms of the agreement in principle. on june 27, 2005, the bankruptcy court approved the settlement agreement. subsequently, the bankruptcy court issued a confirmation order confirming grace's plan or reorganization (as filed and amended from time to time, the "plan") and the district court issued a similar confirmation order. on february 3, 2014 (the effective date ), in accordance with the plan, grace emerged from bankruptcy. in accordance with the plan and the settlement agreement, on the effective date, cryovac, inc. made aggregate cash payments in the amount of $929.7 million to the wrg asbestos pi trust (the pi trust ) and the wrg asbestos pd trust (the pd trust ) and transferred 18 million shares of sealed air common stock to the pi trust. among other things, the plan incorporated and implemented the settlement agreement and provided for the establishment of two asbestos trusts under section 524(g) of the u.s. bankruptcy code to which present and future asbestos-related personal injury and property damage claims are channeled. the plan also provided injunctions and releases with respect to asbestos claims and certain other claims for our benefit. in addition, under the plan and the settlement agreement, grace is required to indemnify us with respect to asbestos and certain other liabilities. the bankruptcy court entered orders overruling all objections and confirming the plan on january 31, 2011 and february 15, 2011 (collectively, the bankruptcy court confirmation order ). on january 30, 2012 and june 11, 2012, the district court entered orders (collectively with the bankruptcy court confirmation orders, the confirmation orders ) overruling all objections to the plan and confirming the plan in its entirety, including the approval and issuance of the injunctions, releases, and indemnifications set forth in the plan and the bankruptcy court confirmation order. five appeals to the confirmation orders were filed with the united states court of appeals for the third circuit (the third circuit court of appeals ). the third circuit court of appeals dismissed or denied the appeals in separate opinions, with the final dismissal occurring on february 3, 2014 (the effective date ). following the effective date, the bankruptcy court issued an order dismissing the proceedings pursuant to which the preliminary injunction was issued. notwithstanding the foregoing, and although we believe the possibility to be remote, if any courts were to refuse to enforce the injunctions or releases contained in the plan and the settlement agreement with respect to any claims, and if, in addition, grace were unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us for such claims, then we could be required to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. from november 2004, the company and specified subsidiaries were named as defendants in a number of cases, including a number of putative class actions, brought in canada as a result of grace's alleged marketing, manufacturing or distributing of asbestos or asbestos containing products in canada prior to the cryovac transaction in 1998. grace agreed to defend and indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases. a global settlement of these canadian claims to be funded by grace was approved by the canadian court, and the plan provides for payment of these claims. we have no positive obligations under the canadian settlement, but we are a beneficiary of the release of claims. the release in favor of the grace parties (including us) became operative upon the effective date of a plan of reorganization in grace's u.s. chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding. the plan contemplates that the claims released under the canadian settlement will be subject to injunctions under section 524(g) of the bankruptcy code. the canadian court issued an order on april 8, 2011 recognizing and giving full effect to the bankruptcy court's confirmation order in all provinces and territories of canada. these and other canadian actions were dismissed or discontinued with prejudice. notwithstanding the foregoing, and although we believe the possibility to be remote, if the canadian courts refuse to enforce the final plan of reorganization in the canadian courts, and if in addition grace is unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases, then we could be required to pay damages, which we cannot estimate at this time. for further information concerning these matters, see note 18, commitments and contingencies of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the u.s. internal revenue service (the irs ) has indicated that it intends to disallow our deduction of the approximately $1.49 billion for the payments made pursuant to the settlement agreement (as defined in note 18, commitments and contingencies ). we are currently under examination by the irs with respect to the deduction of the approximately $1.49 billion for the 2014 taxable year for the payments made pursuant to the settlement agreement. the irs has indicated that it intends to disallow this deduction in full. we strongly disagree with the irs position and are protesting this finding with the irs. the resolution of the irs's challenge could take several years and the outcome cannot be predicted. nevertheless, we believe that we have meritorious defenses for the deduction of the payments made pursuant to the settlement agreement. if the irs's disallowance of the deduction were sustained, in whole or in part, we would have to remit all or a portion of the benefit received associated with the settlement agreement deduction which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our 16 consolidated financial condition and results of operations. for further information concerning this matter, see note 18, commitments and contingencies, of the notes to consolidated financial statements. disruption and volatility of the financial and credit markets could affect our external liquidity sources. our principal sources of liquidity are accumulated cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flow from operations and amounts available under our lines of credit, including our senior secured credit facilities and our accounts receivable securitization programs. we may be unable to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our senior notes, our accounts receivable securitization programs and our senior secured credit facilities, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. additionally, conditions in financial markets could affect financial institutions with which we have relationships and could result in adverse effects on our ability to utilize fully our committed borrowing facilities. for example, a lender under the senior secured credit facilities may be unwilling or unable to fund a borrowing request, and we may not be able to replace such lender. our annual effective income tax rate can change materially as a result of changes in our geographic mix of u.s. and foreign earnings and other factors, including changes in tax laws and changes made by regulatory authorities. our overall effective income tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of total earnings before tax. however, income tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global basis but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis. losses in one jurisdiction may not be used to offset profits in other jurisdictions and may cause an increase in our tax rate. changes in the mix of earnings (or losses) between jurisdictions and assumptions used in the calculation of income taxes, among other factors, could have a significant effect on our overall effective income tax rate. we are subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. as a result, any adverse development in the tax laws of any of these jurisdictions or any disagreement with our tax positions could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to taxation in, and to the tax laws and regulations of, multiple jurisdictions as a result of the international scope of our operations and our corporate and financing structure. tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. in 2017 the united states enacted significant tax reform, (the tax cuts and jobs act or "tcja") and certain provisions or interpretations of the new law may adversely affect us. for example, the one-time mandatory tax on previously deferred foreign earnings of foreign subsidiaries, or transition tax , involved complex calculations and had a material impact on our financial results in 2018. many countries in the european union, as well as a number of other countries and organizations such as the organization for economic cooperation and development, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws that, if enacted, could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business. additional changes in tax laws could increase our overall taxes and our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected in a material way. the tax authorities in any applicable jurisdiction, including the u.s., may disagree with the positions we have taken or intend to take regarding the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions. if any applicable tax authorities, including u.s. tax authorities, were to successfully challenge the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of our operations. concerns about greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions and climate change and the resulting governmental and market responses to these issues could increase costs that we incur and could otherwise affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives have been enacted and proposed in response to concerns about ghg emissions and climate change. we are a manufacturing entity that utilizes petrochemical-based raw materials to produce many of our products, including plastic packaging materials. increased environmental legislation or regulation could result in higher costs for us in the form of higher raw materials, freight and energy costs. we could also incur additional compliance costs for monitoring and reporting emissions and for maintaining permits. it is also possible that certain materials might cease to be permitted to be used in our processes. our insurance policies may not cover all operating risks and a casualty loss beyond the limits of our coverage could materially and adversely impact our business. our business is subject to operating hazards and risks relating to handling, storing, transporting and use of the products we sell. we maintain insurance policies in amounts and with coverage and deductibles that we believe are reasonable and 17 prudent. nevertheless, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us from all liabilities and expenses that may arise from claims for personal injury or death or property damage arising in the ordinary course of business, and our current levels of insurance may not be maintained or available in the future at economical prices. if a significant liability claim is brought against us that are not adequately covered by insurance, we may have to pay the claim with our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we are not able to protect our trade secrets or maintain our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property, we may not be able to prevent competitors from developing similar products or from marketing their products in a manner that capitalizes on our trademarks, and this loss of a competitive advantage could decrease our profitability and liquidity. our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. if we were unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property and our significant current or future products, the resulting loss of associated competitive advantage could lead to decreased sales or increased operating costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we rely on trade secrets to maintain our competitive position, including protecting the formulation and manufacturing techniques of many of our products. as such, we have not sought u.s. or international patent protection for some of our principal product formulas and manufacturing processes. accordingly, we may not be able to prevent others from developing products that are similar to or competitive with our products. we own a large number of patents and pending patent applications on our products, aspects thereof, methods of use and/or methods of manufacturing. there is a risk that our patents may not provide meaningful protection and patents may never be issued for our pending patent applications. we own, or have licenses to use, all of the material trademark and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our major products both in the u.s. and in other countries/regions where our products are principally sold. trademark and trade name protection is important to our business. although most of our trademarks are registered in the u.s. and in the foreign countries/regions in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries/regions may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s. the costs required to protect our trademarks and trade names may be substantial. we cannot be certain that we will be able to assert these intellectual property rights successfully in the future or that they will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute the value of our intellectual property in the marketplace. third parties, including competitors, may assert intellectual property infringement or invalidity claims against us that could be upheld. intellectual property litigation, which could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by us, may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or proprietary technology or for us to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of others' proprietary rights. we may not prevail in any such litigation, and if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on reasonable terms or at all. any failure by us to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. as a result of acquisitions, we may record a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets and we may never realize the full carrying value of the related assets. as a result of acquisitions, we may record a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including customer relationships, trademarks and developed technologies. we test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for possible impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. amortizable intangible assets are periodically reviewed for possible impairment whenever there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. impairment may result from, among other things, (i) a decrease in our expected net earnings; (ii) adverse equity market conditions; (iii) a decline in current market multiples; (iv) a decline in our common stock price; (v) a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climates; (vi) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; (vii) heightened competition; (viii) strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions; or (ix) a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of. in the event that we determine that events or circumstances exist that indicate that the 18 carrying value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, we might have to recognize a non-cash impairment of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in the conditions in the global financial markets, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices and the creditworthiness of our customers and suppliers, which may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we seek to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. we do not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rates from time to time, we may use interest rate swaps, collars or options to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. at december 31, 2018 , we had no outstanding interest rate swaps, collars or options. the information set forth in note 13, derivatives and hedging activities, of the notes to consolidated financial statements under the caption interest rate swaps, is incorporated herein by reference. see note 14, fair value measurements and other financial instruments, of the notes to consolidated financial statements for details of the methodology and inputs used to determine the fair value of our fixed rate debt. the fair value of our fixed rate debt varies with changes in interest rates. generally, the fair value of fixed rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease of $77 million in the fair value of the total debt balance at december 31, 2018 . these changes in the fair value of our fixed rate debt do not alter our obligations to repay the outstanding principal amount or any related interest of such debt. foreign exchange rates operations as a large global organization, we face exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could materially impact our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in the future. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, above for the impacts foreign currency translation had on our operations. venezuela economic and political events in venezuela have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risk. foreign exchange control regulations have affected our venezuelan subsidiaries' ability to obtain inventory and maintain normal production. as a result, of the ongoing challenging economic situation in venezuela, the company ceased operations in the country in 2016 and has an insignificant amount of operations in the country, including sales derived from the country and cash. this resulted in total costs of $49 million being incurred which included the following (i) a voluntary reduction in headcount including severance and termination benefits for employees of less than $1 million, (ii) depreciation and amortization expense related to fixed assets and intangibles of $1 million , (iii) inventory reserves of less than $1 million and (iv) income tax expense of $1 million and (v) the reclassification of $47 million of cumulative translation adjustment resulting in a charge to net income as the company's decision to cease operations is similar to a substantially complete liquidation. as of december 31, 2018 , we do not believe the economic and political events in venezuela will have a material impact on our 2019 results of operations. argentina 51 recent economic events in argentina, including the default on some of its international debt obligations, have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risks. as of july 1, 2018, argentina was designated as a highly-inflationary economy. from the date of this designation through december 31, 2018 , we recognized $2 million of net foreign currency exchange losses in net foreign exchange transaction loss, within other (expense) income, net on the consolidated statements of operations, primarily related to the designation of argentina as a highly inflationary economy under u.s gaap. see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information. as of december 31, 2018 , 1% of our consolidated net sales were derived from our products sold in argentina and net assets include $3 million of cash and cash equivalents. also, as of december 31, 2018 , our argentina subsidiaries had cumulative translation losses of $24 million . russia the u.s. and the european union (eu) have imposed sanctions on various sectors of the russian economy and on transactions with certain russian nationals and entities. russia has also announced economic sanctions against the u.s. and other nations that include a ban on imports of certain products. these sanctions are not expected to have a material impact on our business as much of the operations in russia support local production; however, they may limit the amount of future business the company does with customers involved in activities in russia. as of december 31, 2018 , we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact to our 2019 result of operations. as of december 31, 2018 , 2% of our consolidated net sales were derived from products sold into russia and net assets include $6 million of cash and cash equivalents. also, as of december 31, 2018 , our russia subsidiaries had cumulative translation losses of $33 million . brazil recent economic events in brazil, including the increase in the benchmark interest rate set by the brazilian central bank, have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risks. however, as of december 31, 2018 , we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact on our 2019 results of operations. as of december 31, 2018 , 3% of our consolidated net sales were derived from products sold into brazil and net assets include $10 million of cash and cash equivalents. also, as of december 31, 2018 , our brazil subsidiaries had cumulative translation losses of $40 million . united kingdom the united kingdom is in the process of exiting the european union, which is currently scheduled for march 2019 (referred to as "brexit"). although the final terms of the withdrawal are not yet known, we continue to assess the risk and impact of the united kingdom's exit from the european union on our operations, controls, and financial performance. brexit may impact the way we currently serve our customers in the united kingdom and in ireland, as we expect the united kingdom's exit from the european union to reduce efficiencies associated with serving customers in these countries from a central location. we are monitoring our processes as well as operating and legal entity structure to continue to efficiently address changes that may arise from brexit including: customs processing and clearance, transit and logistics time and potential updates to terms and conditions present within our customer contracts. we continue to monitor inventory levels including any incremental stock that may be required to minimize disruptions to our business and our customers' business. brexit may also require us to tighten credit controls that will have adverse impact on our sales and bad debt expense. continued devaluation of the sterling will have a negative impact on our financial results reported in us dollar. however, as of december 31, 2018 , we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact on our 2019 results of operations. as of december 31, 2018 , 4% of our consolidated net sales were derived from products sold into united kingdom. net assets in the united kingdom include $3 million of cash and cash equivalents and $10 million in inventory. also, as of december 31, 2018 , our united kingdom subsidiaries had cumulative translation adjustment losses of $32 million . a large concentration of the company's defined benefit plans is in the united kingdom. approximately 35% of the company's projected benefit obligation and 45% of defined benefit plan assets are in the united kingdom. market volatility could have a negative impact on both our plan assets and our benefit obligations. however, our plan assets and obligations presented in our consolidated balance sheets and in note 15, "profit sharing, retirement savings plan and defined benefit plans," of the notes to consolidated financial statements are valued as of december 31, 2018. we believe that the market and associated impacts on the value of our plan assets and assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligation reflect the uncertainties related to brexit. the company and the plans' trustees have employed de-risking strategies in the defined benefit asset portfolios to reduce market volatility risk, interest rate risk and future cash flow risk. our defined benefit assets in the united kingdom are diversified between international equities, fixed income investments, and insurance buy-in contracts which all help mitigate market volatility risk. 52 we have deployed a cross functional project team working to mitigate the impact and risk associated with brexit. we continue to monitor the progress of the final terms of the united kingdom's exit from the european union along with associated impacts to our business. impact of inflation and currency fluctuation economic and political events in certain countries have exposed us to heightened levels of inflation and foreign currency exchange risks. the effects of these could impact our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards in the notes to consolidated financial statements for details regarding the impact of inflation and currency fluctuation. also, for a discussion of our risk factors, please refer to part ii, item 1a, risk factors. foreign currency forward contracts we use foreign currency forward contracts to fix the amounts payable or receivable on some transactions denominated in foreign currencies. a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates at december 31, 2018 would have caused us to pay approximately $42 million to terminate these contracts. based on our overall foreign exchange exposure, we estimate this change would not materially affect our financial position and liquidity. the effect on our results of operations would be substantially offset by the impact of the hedged items. our foreign currency forward contracts are described in note 13, derivatives and hedging activities, which is contained in the notes to consolidated financial statements, and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources derivative financial instruments foreign currency forward contracts, contained in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k, which information is incorporated herein by reference. net investment hedge the 400 million 4.50% notes issued in june 2015 are designated as a net investment hedge, hedging a portion of our net investment in a certain european subsidiary against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. the change in the fair value of the debt was $8 million ( $6 million net of tax) as of december 31, 2018 , and is reflected in long-term debt on our consolidated balance sheets. in march 2015, we entered into a series of cross-currency swaps with a combined notional amount of $425 million, hedging a portion of the net investment in a certain european subsidiary against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. as a result of the sale of diversey, we terminated these cross-currency swaps in september 2017 and settled these swaps in october 2017. the fair value of the swaps on the date of termination was a liability of $62 million which was partially offset by semi-annual interest settlements of $18 million . this resulted in a net impact of $(44) million recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss ("aocl"). for derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedges of net investments in foreign operations, settlements and changes in fair values of the derivative instruments are recognized in unrealized net gains or loss on derivative instruments for net investment hedge, a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of taxes, to offset the changes in the values of the net investments being hedged. any portion of the net investment hedge that is determined to be ineffective is recorded in other income, net on the consolidated statements of operations. other derivative instruments we may use other derivative instruments from time to time to manage exposure to foreign exchange rates and to access to international financing transactions. these instruments can potentially limit foreign exchange exposure by swapping borrowings denominated in one currency for borrowings denominated in another currency. outstanding debt our outstanding debt is generally denominated in the functional currency of the borrower or in euros as is the case with the issuance of 400 million of 4.50% senior notes due 2023. we believe that this enables us to better match operating cash flows with debt service requirements and to better match the currency of assets and liabilities. the amount of outstanding debt denominated in a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar was $590 million at december 31, 2018 and $544 million at december 31, 2017 . 53 customer credit we are exposed to credit risk from our customers. in the normal course of business, we extend credit to our customers if they satisfy pre-defined credit criteria. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the failure of our customers to make required payments. an additional allowance may be required if the financial condition of our customers deteriorates. the allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that management assesses to be appropriate to absorb estimated losses in the accounts receivable portfolio. our customers may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. our provision for bad debt expense was $2 million for the years ended december 31, 2018 , and less than $1 million for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. the allowance for doubtful accounts was $9 million and $7 million at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. pensions recent market conditions have resulted in an unusually high degree of volatility and increased risks and short-term liquidity concerns associated with some of the plan assets held by our defined benefit pension plans, which have impacted the performance of some of the plan assets. based upon the annual valuation of our defined benefit pension plans at december 31, 2018 , we expect net periodic benefit expense to be less than $1 million in 2019 . see note 15, profit sharing, retirement savings plans and defined benefit pension plans, of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further details on our defined benefit pension plans. commodities we use various commodity raw materials such as plastic resins and other chemicals and energy products such as electric power and natural gas in conjunction with our manufacturing processes. generally, we acquire these components at market prices in the region in which they will be used and do not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. moreover, we seek to maintain appropriate levels of commodity raw material inventories thus minimizing the expense and risks of carrying excess inventories. we do not typically purchase substantial quantities in advance of production requirements. as a result, we are exposed to market risks related to changes in commodity prices of these components. 54risk factors 10 risk factors introduction the risks described below should be carefully considered before making an investment decision. these are the most significant risk factors, but they are not the only risk factors that should be considered in making an investment decision. this form 10-k also contains and may incorporate by reference forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. see the cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements, in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. the trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks, and investors in our securities may lose all or part of their investment. uncertain global economic conditions have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. uncertain global economic conditions have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business in the form of lower net sales due to weakened demand, unfavorable changes in product price/mix, or lower profit margins. for example, global economic downturns have adversely impacted some of our end-users and customers, such as food processors, distributors, supermarket retailers, restaurants, industrial manufacturers, retail establishments, business service contractors and e-commerce and mail order fulfillment firms, and other end-users that are particularly sensitive to business and consumer spending. during economic downturns or recessions, there can be a heightened competition for sales and increased pressure to reduce selling prices as our customers may reduce their volume of purchases from us. if we lose significant sales volume or reduce selling prices significantly, then there could be a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations, profitability and cash flows. also, reduced availability of credit may adversely affect the ability of some of our customers and suppliers to obtain funds for operations and capital expenditures. this could negatively impact our ability to obtain necessary supplies as well as our sales of materials and equipment to affected customers. this also could result in reduced or delayed collections of outstanding accounts receivable. we may face risks related to health epidemics or outbreaks of communicable diseases. the outbreak of such a communicable disease could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect general commercial activity and the economies and financial markets of many countries. for example, the recent outbreak in china of the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) which has been declared by the world health organization to be a public health emergency of international concern, has spread across the globe and is impacting worldwide economic activity. a public health epidemic, including covid-19, poses the risk that we or our employees, contractors, suppliers, customers and other business partners may be prevented from conducting business activities for an indefinite period of time, including due to shutdowns that may be requested or mandated by governmental authorities. while it is not possible at this time to estimate the impact that covid-19 could have on our business, the continued spread of covid-19 and the measures taken by the governments of countries affected could disrupt the supply chain and the manufacture or shipment of our products and adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. the global nature of our operations exposes us to numerous risks that could materially adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we operate in 48 countries/regions, and our products are distributed to 124 countries around the world. a large portion of our manufacturing operations are located outside of the u.s. and approximately one-half of our net sales are generated outside of the u.s. these operations, particularly in developing regions, are subject to various risks that may not be present or as significant for our u.s. operations. economic uncertainty in some of the geographic regions in which we operate, including developing regions, could result in the disruption of commerce and negatively impact cash flows from our operations in those areas. risks inherent in our international operations include: foreign currency exchange controls and tax rates; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including devaluations; 10 adverse impacts resulting from regional or global human health related illness such as the recent outbreak of covid-19 which may impact travel, trade and the overall economic conditions of regions with the greatest concentration of transmission, specifically parts of china and may impact other geographic areas in which we have operations. the covid-19 has and may continue to have an impact on ports and trade into and out of china. we have eight manufacturing facilities in china. additionally, china accounted for approximately 3% of sales in 2019; the potential for changes in regional and local economic conditions, including local inflationary pressures or impacts resulting from the united kingdom's exit from the european union; restrictive governmental actions such as those on transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection matters, including antidumping duties, tariffs, embargoes and prohibitions or restrictions on acquisitions or joint ventures; changes in laws and regulations, including the laws and policies of the u.s. affecting trade and foreign investment; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; variations in protection of intellectual property and other legal rights; more expansive legal rights of foreign unions or works councils; changes in labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; import and export delays caused, for example, by an extended strike at the port of entry, could cause a delay in our supply chain operations; social plans that prohibit or increase the cost of certain restructuring actions; the potential for nationalization of enterprises or facilities; unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against u.s. or other interests; and there are potential tax inefficiencies and tax costs in repatriating funds from our non-u.s. subsidiaries. these and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. fluctuations between foreign currencies and the us dollar could materially impact our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. approximately 48% of our net sales in 2019 were generated outside the u.s. we translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currency into us dollars for our consolidated financial statements. as a result, the company is exposed to currency fluctuations both in receiving cash from its international operations and in translating its financial results back to us dollars. during periods of a strengthening us dollar, our reported international sales and net earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer us dollars. foreign exchange rates can also impact the competitiveness of products produced in certain jurisdictions and exported for sale into other jurisdictions. these changes may impact the value received for the sale of our goods versus those of our competitors. the company cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations on its future operating results. as exchange rates vary, the company's results of operations and profitability may be harmed. while we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency exposures, this does not insulate us completely from foreign currency effects and exposes us to counterparty credit risk for non-performance. see note 15, derivatives and hedging activities, of the notes to consolidated financial statements. such hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial effect resulting from foreign currency variations. the gains or losses associated with hedging activities may negatively impact the company's results of operations. in all jurisdictions in which we operate, we are also subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions. these laws and regulations may limit our ability to repatriate cash as dividends or otherwise to the u.s. and may limit our ability to convert foreign currency cash flows into us dollars. we have recognized foreign exchange losses related to the currency devaluations in argentina and its designation as a highly inflationary economy under u.s. gaap. see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards, of the notes to consolidated financial statements. raw material pricing, including how our selling prices reflect the cost of raw materials, availability and allocation by suppliers as well as energy-related costs may negatively impact our results of operations, including our profit margins. we use petrochemical-based raw materials to manufacture many of our products. the prices for these raw materials are cyclical and increases in market demand or fluctuations in the global trade for petrochemical-based raw materials and energy could increase our costs. while, historically we have been able to successfully manage the impact of higher raw material costs by increasing our selling prices, if we are unable to minimize the effects of increased raw material costs through sourcing, 11 pricing or other actions, our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. a portion of our sales prices are determined using formula based pricing which reflects changes in underlying raw material indices. formula based pricing lags raw material cost movement by approximately six months. we may experience a benefit (when resin prices decrease) or detriment (when resin prices increase) to our cost of goods sold before those price changes are reflected in our selling prices. as such, trends in raw material pricing may have a negative impact on future profit margins. we also have some sole-source suppliers, and the lack of availability of supplies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers and suppliers of other raw materials in the future. these factors could lead to increased prices for our raw materials, curtailment of supplies and allocation of raw materials by our suppliers and harm relations with our customers which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. unfavorable customer responses to price increases could have a material adverse impact on our sales and earnings. from time to time, and especially in periods of rising raw material costs, we increase the prices of our products. significant price increases could impact our earnings depending on, among other factors, the pricing by competitors of similar products and the response by the customers to higher prices. such price increases may result in lower volume of sales and a subsequent decrease in gross margin and adversely impact earnings. demand for our products could be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or if we are not able to innovate and bring new products to market. our sales depend heavily on the volumes of sales by our customers in food processing and service industries, the industrial manufacturing and electronics sections, and e-commerce. consumer preferences for food and durable goods packaging can influence our sales. consumer preferences for fresh and unpackaged foods and the global e-commerce and industrial market change over time. changes in consumer behavior, including changes driven by cost, availability, durability, sustainability, innovation, or various health-related concerns and perceptions, could negatively impact demand for our products. innovation is key to our strategy. our performance and prospects for future growth could be adversely affected if new products do not meet sales or margin expectations and we are not able to meet our innovation rate goals. our customers' preferences continue to trend towards sustainable packaging solutions. we believe that we are well positioned to offer these solutions to our customers, but our success is dependent on continued innovation in sustainability and our ability to bring new products to market in an efficient manner. o ur competitive advantage is due in part to our ability to develop and introduce new and sustainable products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the development and introduction cycle of new products can be lengthy and involve high levels of investment. new products may not meet sales or margin expectations due to many factors, including our inability to (i) accurately predict demand, end-user preferences and evolving industry and regulatory standards; (ii) resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner; or (iii) achieve manufacturing efficiencies. we experience competition in the markets for our products and services and in the geographic areas in which we operate. our packaging products compete with similar products made by other manufacturers and with a number of other types of materials or products. we compete on the basis of performance characteristics of our products, as well as service, price and innovations in technology. a number of competing domestic and foreign companies are well-established. customers in the e-commerce and food service industry and peers in the packaging industry have been consolidating in recent years, and we believe this trend may continue. such consolidation could have an adverse impact on the pricing of our products and services and our ability to retain customers, which could in turn adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. our inability to maintain a competitive advantage could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes for our products. additionally, we may not successfully implement our pricing actions. these factors may have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 12 large-scale animal health issues as well as other health issues affecting the food industry and disruptive forces of nature, such as significant regional droughts, prolonged severe weather conditions, floods, and natural disasters may lead to decreased revenues. we manufacture and sell food packaging products, among other products. various forces of nature affecting the food industry have in the past and may in the future have a negative effect on the sales of food packaging products. outbreaks of animal diseases may lead governments to restrict exports and imports of potentially affected animals and food products, leading to decreased demand for our products and possibly also to the culling or slaughter of significant numbers of the animal population otherwise intended for food supply. recently, african swine fever, a viral disease affecting both domestic and wild pigs, has spread throughout china, south korea and vietnam as well as within parts of the european union and has disrupted pork production. other disruptive forces of nature such as droughts, floods and other severe weather can lead to agricultural market impacts resulting in reduced herd size or modifications to the traditional herd cycles which could affect demand for our products. severe wildfires in australia in late 2019 and early 2020 may have a negative impact on cattle and beef production in the region. also, consumers may change their eating habits as a result of perceived problems with certain types of food. these factors may lead to reduced sales of food packaging products, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are involved in ongoing investigations by the u.s. attorney's office ("usao") and u.s. securities and exchange commission, the results of which could adversely impact our business and results of operations and our ability to comply with certain obligations imposed by federal securities laws and other applicable rules. the company has received from the staff of the sec subpoenas for documents and requests for information in connection with the sec's previously disclosed investigation. those subpoenas and requests seek documents and information regarding the company's accounting for income taxes, its financial reporting and disclosures, the process by which the company selected its former independent audit firm which audited the fiscal years of 2015 through 2018, the independence of that audit firm, and other matters. the company has also received a grand jury subpoena from the usao seeking documents relating to the termination of our former cfo and relating to the process by which the company selected its previous independent audit firm. the company is fully cooperating with the sec and the usao. however, we cannot predict the outcome or duration of either of those investigations and there can be no guarantee as to the amount of internal and external resources we may need to devote to responding to any further requests we may receive from the sec and/or the usao. in addition, if the sec and/or the usao were to charge the company with violations, we could potentially be subject to fines, penalties or other adverse consequences, and our business and financial condition could be adversely impacted. finally, any determination that the company's previous audit firm was not independent during the years it audited could require that certain of our historical financial statements be re-audited by a different registered public accounting firm which could affect our ability to comply with certain reporting obligations imposed by federal securities laws. we are the subject of various legal proceedings, and may be subject to future claims and litigation, that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we are involved from time to time in various legal proceedings, including the securities class action lawsuit, stockholder derivative action and other actions described in part i, item 3, legal proceedings. litigation, in general, and securities, derivative actions and class action litigation, in particular, can be expensive and disruptive. some of these proceedings may involve parties seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages, and may remain unresolved for several years. litigation and other adverse legal proceedings could materially adversely affect our businesses, operating results and/or cash flows because of reputational harm to us caused by such proceedings, the cost of defending such proceedings, the cost of settlement or judgments against us or the changes in our operations that could result from such proceedings. concerns about the impact that plastic materials have on the environment, along with changes in legal, regulatory, customer preferences or market measures to address these concerns, may negatively affect our business and operations. public attention to plastic waste and its associated environmental impact continues to increase. some jurisdictions have laws and regulations that govern the registration and labeling of some of our products. customer preferences and buying behaviors may change as a result of public attention to plastic waste and current and future regulations, such as those recently announced in the eu parliament and in china. currently, single-use plastic ban proposals have focused on specific items such as grocery bags, cutlery, beverage straws and stir sticks, expanded polystyrene or oxo-degradable plastic. at present, none of the products we manufacture have been banned. 13 we maintain programs designed to comply with laws and regulations and to monitor their evolution. we also continue to innovate our packaging solutions to meet recyclability or reusability requirements, address cube optimization to eliminate non-recyclable plastic waste, and increase the use of recycled and/or renewable materials. however, while we believe that we are well positioned to meet sustainability and recyclability demands of our customers with innovative solutions and new formulations of our materials, ongoing development of government policies to restrict waste imports, to ban single use plastics and to increase recycling and recovery, and changes in customer preferences may have an adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. our operations are subject to a variety of environmental laws that expose us to regulatory scrutiny, potential financial liability and increased operating costs. our operations are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the manufacture of our products, the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil and water and the use, handling, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. many jurisdictions require us to have operating permits for our production and warehouse facilities and operations. any failure to obtain, maintain or comply with the terms of these permits could result in fines or penalties, revocation or nonrenewal of our permits, or orders to cease certain operations, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we generate, use and dispose of hazardous materials in our manufacturing processes. in the event our operations result in the release of hazardous materials into the environment, we may become responsible for the costs associated with the investigation and remediation of sites at which we have released pollutants, or sites where we have disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes, even if we fully complied with environmental laws at the time of disposal. we have been, and may continue to be, responsible for the cost of remediation at some locations. we are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that regulate products manufactured and sold by us for controlling microbial growth on humans, animals and processed foods. in the u.s., these requirements are generally administered by the fda. we maintain programs designed to comply with these laws and regulations and to monitor their evolution. to date, the cost of complying with product registration requirements and fda compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we cannot predict with reasonable certainty the future cost to us of environmental compliance, product registration, or environmental remediation. environmental laws have become more stringent and complex over time. our environmental costs and operating expenses will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the scope and timing of the effectiveness of requirements in these various jurisdictions. as a result of such requirements, we may be subject to an increased regulatory burden, and we expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our operations. increased compliance costs, increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, or our inability to market some of our products in certain jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. cyber risk and the failure to maintain the integrity of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties with which we do business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to an increasing number of information technology vulnerabilities, threats and targeted computer crimes which pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of our networks or systems, could result in the loss of customers and business opportunities, legal liability, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensatory costs, and additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. while we attempt to mitigate these risks, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced and persistent threats. we also maintain and have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer controls. despite our efforts to protect such sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, our facilities and systems and those of our customers and third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors that could lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, software 14 solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. the regulatory environment surrounding cybersecurity and data privacy is increasingly demanding, with new and changing regulations, such as the european union's general data protection regulation (gdpr). we could be required to expend additional resources to comply with any such regulations, and failure to comply could subject us to significant penalties or claims. we may not be able to complete future acquisitions or acquired businesses may underperform relative to our expectations. furthermore, we may not be able to successfully integrate these businesses without significant use of resources or diversion of management's attention. successful acquisition and integration of target companies may be limited by the availability of suitable acquisition candidates, the ability to obtain necessary third-party approvals and availability of financial resources. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulty determining valuation, integration of acquired operations, technologies, services and products, key personnel turnover, and the diversion of management's attention from other business matters. ultimately, we may be unable to achieve the expected benefits and synergies which could adversely affect our business. we may be required to make payments or unable to collect payments owed to us under agreements or other claims or litigation associated with previous acquisition or divestiture activity. we have made various acquisitions and divestitures as part of executing our business strategy. from time to time this activity may result in the future settlement of amounts with the counterparty. examples of these items include but are not limited to purchase price adjustments, transition service agreements, clawback agreements or contingent considerations. the settlement of activity associated with previous acquisitions or divestitures, may result in us making cash payments, including amounts beyond what has been accrued on our consolidated balance sheets, or recognizing a loss on receivables recorded on our consolidated balance sheets. this may also result in higher legal fees and a negative impact on future cash flow. we may not achieve or be able to sustain all of the expected benefits from our restructuring program. over time, we have implemented a number of restructuring programs, including various cost savings and reorganization initiatives. currently the company is in the midst of a restructuring program as part our reinvent see strategy. we have made certain assumptions in estimating the anticipated savings we expect to achieve under such programs, which include the estimated savings from the elimination of certain headcount and the consolidation of facilities. we have also made assumptions on the expected cash spend to achieve the anticipated savings. these assumptions may turn out to be incorrect due to a variety of factors. in addition, our ability to realize and sustain the expected benefits from these programs is subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unsuccessful in implementing these programs, do not achieve our expected results or are unable to maintain the savings on a long-term basis, our consolidated results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected or our business operations could be disrupted. product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial results or harm our reputation or the value of our brands. claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of our products arise in the ordinary course of our business. in addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm our reputation in the marketplace or adversely impact the value of our brands or our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. we could also be required to recall possibly defective products, or voluntarily do so, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, potential product liabilities claims could be excluded or exceed coverage limits under the terms of our insurance policies or could result in increased costs for such coverage. 15 changes in u.s. trade policies and regulations, as well as the overall uncertainty surrounding international trade relations, could materially adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. continued developments and recent changes in u.s. trade policies, including tariffs on imports from china generally, have had, and we expect that they will continue to have, an adverse effect on our costs of products sold and margins in our north america region. in january 2020, the united states congress ratified the united states-mexico-canada agreement (usmca), which is intended to replace the north american free trade agreement (nafta). mexico has previously ratified the agreement and canada's parliament is expected to do the same. the effective date of the trade agreement is not yet known. additionally, in january 2020, the united states and china signed an economic and trade agreement which relaxes some of the tariffs that had been imposed on imports between the two countries. however, the agreement has been referred to as "phase 1" and the u.s. administration continues to seek additional reforms. despite the recent events which have eased some concerns related to the u.s. trade policies, uncertainty remains on future trade deals or continued tariffs placed on imports and exports to and from other countries. additional tariffs and changes to the u.s. trade policies would likely adversely impact our business. furthermore, other countries may change their own trade policies, including the imposition of additional tariffs and quotas, which could also adversely affect our business outside the u.s. in order to mitigate the impact of these trade-related increases on our costs of products sold, we may increase prices in certain markets and, over the longer term, make changes in our supply chain and, potentially, our u.s. manufacturing strategy. implementing price increases may cause our customers to find alternative sources for their products. we may be unable to successfully pass on these costs through price increases; adjust our supply chain without incurring significant costs; or locate alternative suppliers for raw materials or finished goods at acceptable costs or in a timely manner. further, the uncertainty surrounding u.s. trade policy makes it difficult to make long-term strategic decisions regarding the best way to respond to these pressures and could also increase the volatility of currency exchange rates. our inability to effectively manage the negative impacts of changing u.s. and foreign trade policies could materially adversely impact our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. political and economic instability and risk of government actions affecting our business and our customers or suppliers may adversely impact our business, results of operations and cash flows. we are exposed to risks inherent in doing business in each of the countries or regions in which we or our customers or suppliers operate including: civil unrest, acts of terrorism, sabotage, epidemics, force majeure, war or other armed conflict and related government actions, including sanctions/embargoes, the deprivation of contract rights, the inability to obtain or retain licenses required by us to operate our plants or import or export our goods or raw materials, the expropriation or nationalization of our assets, and restrictions on travel, payments or the movement of funds. geopolitical events including, but not limited to, the u.s. presidential election in 2020 or the u.k.'s exit from the european union may have a negative impact on the global industrial macro-economic environment. a major loss of or disruption in our manufacturing and distribution operations or our information systems and telecommunication resources could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we were to experience a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or other severe weather event, a casualty loss from an event such as a fire or flood, at one of our larger strategic facilities, or experience adverse impacts, such as plant shutdowns or travel restrictions due to regional or global human health related illness or if such events were to affect a key supplier, our supply chain or our information systems and telecommunication resources, then there could be a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on internal and third-party information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. in particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for fulfilling and invoicing customer orders, applying cash receipts, and placing purchase orders with suppliers, making cash disbursements, and conducting digital marketing activities, data processing and electronic communications among business locations. we also depend on telecommunication systems for communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. future system disruptions, security breaches or shutdowns could significantly disrupt our operations or result in lost or misappropriated information and may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 16 if we are unable to retain key employees and other personnel, our consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other key personnel. their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us, and we need their expertise to execute our business strategies. if any of our senior management or other key personnel cease to work for us and we are unable to successfully replace any departing senior management or key personnel, our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we could experience disruptions in operations and/or increased labor costs. in europe and latin america, most of our employees are represented by either labor unions or workers' councils and are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are generally renewable on an annual basis. as is the case with any negotiation, we may not be able to negotiate acceptable new collective bargaining agreements, which could result in strikes or work stoppages by affected workers. renewal of collective bargaining agreements could also result in higher wages or benefits paid to union members. a disruption in operations or higher ongoing labor costs could materially affect our business. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on time or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. we may not be able to affect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities, the indentures that govern our senior notes and the agreements covering our accounts receivable securitization programs restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. in addition, we conduct a substantial portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, certain of which are not guarantors of our indebtedness. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. unless they are guarantors of our indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. the indenture governing certain of our senior notes and the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities limit the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us. these limitations are subject to qualifications and exceptions. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. if we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could terminate their commitments to loan money, the lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 17 the terms of our credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities, our accounts receivable securitization programs and the indentures governing our senior notes restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. the indentures governing our senior notes and the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities and accounts receivable securitization programs contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to: incur additional indebtedness; pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; make loans and investments; sell assets; incur liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; alter the businesses we conduct; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. in addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit agreement governing our senior credit facilities require us to maintain a specified net leverage ratio. our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control. a breach of the covenants under the indenture governing our senior notes or under the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. in addition, an event of default under the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities would permit the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under those facilities. furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our senior secured credit facilities, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. in the event our lenders or note holders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. as a result of these restrictions, we may be: limited in how we conduct our business; unable to respond to changing market conditions; unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns or to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due; or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. in addition, amounts available under our accounts receivable securitization programs and/or utilization of our supply chain financing programs can be impacted by a number of factors, including but not limited to our credit ratings, accounts receivable or payable balances, the creditworthiness of us or our customers, our receivables collection experience and/or our trade payable payment history. our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. if interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. as of december 31, 2019 , we had $700 million of long-term borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities at variable interest rates. a 1/8% increase or decrease in the assumed interest rates on the senior secured credit facilities would result in a $0.9 million increase or decrease in annual interest expense. in the future, we may enter into interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility. however, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. 18 the full realization of our deferred tax assets may be affected by a number of factors, including our earnings in the u.s. and the feasibility of on-going planning strategies. we have deferred tax assets including state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards, accruals not yet deductible for tax purposes, employee benefit items and other items. we have established valuation allowances to reduce the deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. our ability to utilize the deferred tax assets depends in part upon our ability to generate future taxable income within each respective jurisdiction during the periods in which these temporary differences reverse or our ability to carryback any losses created by the deduction of these temporary differences. we expect to realize the assets over an extended period. if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in the u.s. and/or certain foreign jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. our effective tax rate would increase if we were required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. the u.s. internal revenue service (the irs ) has indicated that it intends to disallow our deduction of the approximately $1.49 billion for the payments made pursuant to the settlement agreement (as defined below). in the past, we have reduced taxable income by approximately $1.49 billion for the payments made pursuant to the settlement agreement and thus have reduced our us federal tax liability by approximately $525 million. the irs has proposed to disallow, as deductible expense, the entirety of the $1.49 billion settlement payments. although we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the proposed disallowance and are protesting it with the irs, this matter could take several years to resolve and there can be no assurance that it will be resolved in the company's favor. an unfavorable resolution of this matter could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations, including cash flows. disruption and volatility of the financial and credit markets could affect our external liquidity sources. our principal sources of liquidity are accumulated cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flow from operations and amounts available under our lines of credit, including our senior secured credit facilities and our accounts receivable securitization programs. we may be unable to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our senior notes, our accounts receivable securitization programs and our senior secured credit facilities, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. additionally, conditions in financial markets could affect financial institutions with which we have relationships and could result in adverse effects on our ability to utilize fully our committed borrowing facilities. for example, a lender under the senior secured credit facilities may be unwilling or unable to fund a borrowing request, and we may not be able to replace such lender. our annual effective income tax rate can change materially as a result of changes in our geographic mix of u.s. and foreign earnings and other factors, including changes in tax laws and changes made by regulatory authorities. our overall effective income tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of total earnings before tax. however, income tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global basis but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis. losses in one jurisdiction may not be used to offset profits in other jurisdictions and may cause an increase in our tax rate. changes in the mix of earnings (or losses) between jurisdictions and assumptions used in the calculation of income taxes, among other factors, could have a significant effect on our overall effective income tax rate. we are subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. as a result, any adverse development in the tax laws of any of these jurisdictions or any disagreement with our tax positions could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to taxation in, and to the tax laws and regulations of, multiple jurisdictions as a result of the international scope of our operations and our corporate and financing structure. tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. in 2017 the united states enacted significant tax reform, (the tax cuts and jobs act or "tcja") and certain provisions or interpretations of the new law may adversely affect us. for example, the one-time mandatory tax on previously deferred foreign earnings of foreign subsidiaries, or transition tax , involved complex calculations and had a material impact on our financial results in 2018. many countries in the european union, as well as a number of other countries and organizations such as the organization for economic cooperation and development, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws that, if enacted, could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business. additional changes in tax laws could increase our overall taxes and our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected in a material way. the tax authorities in any applicable 19 jurisdiction, including the u.s., may disagree with the positions we have taken or intend to take regarding the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions. if any applicable tax authorities, including u.s. tax authorities, were to successfully challenge the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of our operations. our insurance policies may not cover all operating risks and a casualty loss beyond the limits of our coverage could materially and adversely impact our business. our business is subject to operating hazards and risks relating to handling, storing, transporting and use of the products we sell. we maintain insurance policies in amounts and with coverage and deductibles that we believe are reasonable and prudent. nevertheless, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us from all liabilities and expenses that may arise from claims for personal injury or death or property damage arising in the ordinary course of business, and our current levels of insurance may not be maintained or available in the future at economical prices. if a significant liability claim is brought against us that are not adequately covered by insurance, we may have to pay the claim with our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. if we are not able to protect our trade secrets or maintain our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property, we may not be able to prevent competitors from developing similar products or from marketing their products in a manner that capitalizes on our trademarks, and this loss of a competitive advantage could decrease our profitability and liquidity. our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. if we were unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property and our significant current or future products, the resulting loss of associated competitive advantage could lead to decreased sales or increased operating costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we rely on trade secrets to maintain our competitive position, including protecting the formulation and manufacturing techniques of many of our products. as such, we have not sought u.s. or international patent protection for some of our principal product formulas and manufacturing processes. accordingly, we may not be able to prevent others from developing products that are similar to or competitive with our products. we own a large number of patents and pending patent applications on our products, aspects thereof, methods of use and/or methods of manufacturing. there is a risk that our patents may not provide meaningful protection and patents may never be issued for our pending patent applications. we own, or have licenses to use, all of the material trademark and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our major products both in the u.s. and in other countries/regions where our products are principally sold. trademark and trade name protection is important to our business. although most of our trademarks are registered in the u.s. and in the foreign countries/regions in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. in addition, the laws of some foreign countries/regions may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the u.s. the costs required to protect our trademarks and trade names may be substantial. we cannot be certain that we will be able to assert these intellectual property rights successfully in the future or that they will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute the value of our intellectual property in the marketplace. third parties, including competitors, may assert intellectual property infringement or invalidity claims against us that could be upheld. intellectual property litigation, which could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by us, may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or proprietary technology or for us to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of others' proprietary rights. we may not prevail in any such litigation, and if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on reasonable terms or at all. any failure by us to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. as a result of acquisitions, we may record a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets and we may never realize the full carrying value of the related assets. as a result of acquisitions, we may record a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including customer relationships, trademarks and developed technologies. 20 we test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for possible impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. amortizable intangible assets are periodically reviewed for possible impairment whenever there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. impairment may result from, among other things, (i) a decrease in our expected net earnings; (ii) adverse equity market conditions; (iii) a decline in current market multiples; (iv) a decline in our common stock price; (v) a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climates; (vi) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; (vii) heightened competition; (viii) strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions; or (ix) a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of. in the event that we determine that events or circumstances exist that indicate that the carrying value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, we might have to recognize a non-cash impairment of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. although the settlement agreement (as defined below) has been implemented and we have been released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against us arising from a 1998 transaction with grace (as defined below), if the courts were to refuse to enforce the injunctions or releases contained in the plan (as defined below) and the settlement agreement with respect to any claims and if grace were unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us for such claims, then we could be required to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we were also a defendant in a number of asbestos-related actions in canada arising from grace's activities in canada prior to the 1998 transaction. on march 31, 1998, we completed a multi-step transaction (the cryovac transaction ) involving w.r. grace &amp; co. ( grace ) which brought the cryovac packaging business and the former sealed air's business under the common ownership of the company. as part of that transaction, grace and its subsidiaries retained all liabilities arising out of their operations before the cryovac transaction (including asbestos-related liabilities), other than liabilities relating to cryovac's operations, and agreed to indemnify the company with respect to such retained liabilities. beginning in 2000, we were served with a number of lawsuits alleging that the cryovac transaction was a fraudulent transfer or gave rise to successor liability or both, and that as a result we were responsible for alleged asbestos liabilities of grace and its subsidiaries. on april 2, 2001, grace and a number of its subsidiaries filed petitions for reorganization under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code in the u.s. bankruptcy court for the district of delaware (the bankruptcy court ). in connection with grace's chapter 11 case, the bankruptcy court issued orders staying all asbestos actions against the company (the preliminary injunction ) but granted the official committees appointed to represent asbestos claimants in grace's chapter 11 case (the committees ) permission to pursue fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and other claims against the company and its subsidiary cryovac, inc. based upon the cryovac transaction. in november 2002, we reached an agreement in principle with the committees to resolve all current and future asbestos-related claims made against us and our affiliates, as well as indemnification claims by fresenius medical care holdings, inc. and affiliated companies, in each case, in connection with the cryovac transaction (as memorialized by the parties and approved by the bankruptcy court, the settlement agreement ). a definitive settlement agreement was entered into as of november 10, 2003 consistent with the terms of the agreement in principle. on june 27, 2005, the bankruptcy court approved the settlement agreement and the settlement agreement was subsequently incorporated into the plan of reorganization for grace filed in september 2008 (as filed and amended from time to time, the "plan"). subsequently, the bankruptcy court (in january and february 2011) and the united states district court for the district of delaware (in january and june 2012) entered orders confirming grace's plan of reorganization in its entirety. on february 3, 2014 (the effective date ), in accordance with the plan, grace emerged from bankruptcy. in accordance with the plan and the settlement agreement, on the effective date, cryovac, inc. made aggregate cash payments in the amount of $929.7 million to the wrg asbestos pi trust (the pi trust ) and the wrg asbestos pd trust (the pd trust ) and transferred 18 million shares of sealed air common stock to the pi trust. among other things, the plan incorporated and implemented the settlement agreement and provided for the establishment of two asbestos trusts under section 524(g) of the u.s. bankruptcy code to which present and future asbestos-related personal injury and property damage claims are channeled. the plan also provided injunctions and releases with respect to asbestos claims and certain other claims for our benefit. in addition, under the plan and the settlement agreement, grace is required to indemnify us with respect to asbestos and certain other liabilities. notwithstanding the foregoing, and although we believe the possibility to be remote, if any courts were to refuse to enforce the injunctions or releases contained in the plan and the settlement agreement with respect to any claims, and if, in addition, grace were unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us for such claims, then we could be required to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in the conditions in the global financial markets, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices and the creditworthiness of our customers and suppliers, which may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. we seek to minimize these risks through regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. we do not purchase, hold or sell derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rates from time to time, we may use interest rate swaps, collars or options to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. at december 31, 2019 , we had no outstanding interest rate swaps, collars or options. the information set forth in note 15, derivatives and hedging activities, of the notes to consolidated financial statements under the caption interest rate swaps, is incorporated herein by reference. see note 16, fair value measurements and other financial instruments, of the notes to consolidated financial statements for details of the methodology and inputs used to determine the fair value of our fixed rate debt. the fair value of our fixed rate debt varies with changes in interest rates. generally, the fair value of fixed rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease of $58 million in the fair value of the total debt balance at december 31, 2019 . these changes in the fair value of our fixed rate debt do not alter our obligations to repay the outstanding principal amount or any related interest of such debt. foreign exchange rates operations as a large global organization, we face exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. these exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could materially impact our consolidated financial condition and results of operations in the future. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, above for the impacts foreign currency translation had on our operations. argentina economic events in argentina, including the default on some of its international debt obligations, have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risks. as of july 1, 2018, argentina was designated as a highly inflationary economy. for the year ended december 31, 2019 , we recognized $5 million of net foreign currency exchange losses in foreign currency exchange loss due to highly inflationary economies on the consolidated statements of operations, related to the designation of argentina as a highly inflationary economy under u.s. gaap. see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards, of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information. as of december 31, 2019 , 1% of our consolidated net sales were derived from our products sold in argentina and net assets include $9 million of cash and cash equivalents domiciled in argentina. also, as of december 31, 2019 , our argentina subsidiaries had cumulative translation losses of $24 million . russia the u.s. and the european union (eu) have imposed sanctions on various sectors of the russian economy and on transactions with certain russian nationals and entities. russia has also announced economic sanctions against the u.s. and other nations that include a ban on imports of certain products. these sanctions are not expected to have a material impact on our business as much of the operations in russia support local production; however, they may limit the amount of future business the company does with customers involved in activities in russia. as of december 31, 2019 , we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact to our 2020 results of operations. as of december 31, 2019 , 2% of our consolidated net sales were derived from products sold into russia and net assets include $18 million of cash and cash equivalents domiciled in russia. also, as of december 31, 2019 , our russia subsidiaries had cumulative translation losses of $27 million . 60 brazil recent economic events in brazil, including changes in the benchmark interest rate set by the brazilian central bank, have exposed us to heightened levels of foreign currency exchange risks. however, as of december 31, 2019 , we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact on our 2020 results of operations. as of december 31, 2019 , 3% of our consolidated net sales were derived from products sold into brazil and net assets include $24 million of cash and cash equivalents. also, as of december 31, 2019 , our brazil subsidiaries had cumulative translation losses of $38 million . united kingdom on january 31, 2020, the united kingdom (uk) exited the european union (referred to as "brexit"). the uk has agreed to abide by eu rules during a transition period until the end of the 2020, at which point the european union and the uk expect to have agreements in place regarding future ties including trade, customs, commerce and travel. although the uk and the eu continue to work out terms of the final arrangements and agreements, particularly around trade, the company has taken steps to mitigate the impact of brexit. the exit date was delayed several times as terms of the deal were developed, providing the company, along with our customers and suppliers, additional time to execute action plans to mitigate the impact of brexit. brexit may impact the way we serve our customers in the uk and in ireland, as we expect the uk's exit from the european union to reduce efficiencies associated with serving customers in these countries from a central location. over the last two years, we have deployed a cross-functional team to develop and implement changes to our operating model and legal entity structure to efficiently address challenges that may arise from brexit including: customs processing and clearance, transit and logistics time and potential updates to terms and conditions present within our customer contracts. we continue to monitor inventory levels including any incremental stock that may be required to minimize disruptions to our business and our customers' business. brexit may also require us to tighten credit controls. however, for the year ended december 31, 2019 , bad debt expense recognized in the uk was consistent with the year ended december 31, 2018 and was not material to the company. in the first quarter of 2020, the company will adopt a su 2016-13, which requires us to measure all expected credit losses for trade receivable balances held at the reporting date based on an expected loss model which includes historical experience and current conditions. future impacts of brexit will be included in our analysis of current and forward looking expectations, though we believe the impact of adoption, coupled with brexit will not have a material impact on bad debt expense. given the implementation of brexit we believe that the devaluation of the sterling has stabilized, with the value of the currency increasing in the later part of 2019. nevertheless, any further devaluation would have a negative impact on our financial results reported in us dollars. as of december 31, 2019 , we do not anticipate these events will have a material impact on our 2020 results of operations. as of december 31, 2019 , 3% of our consolidated net sales were derived from products sold into the uk, which is down from 4% in the prior year. we believe that the impact of brexit on the country, including an overall weight on economic growth in the uk, did have an impact on net sales. net assets in the uk include $6 million of cash and cash equivalents and $14 million in inventory. also, as of december 31, 2019 , our uk subsidiaries had cumulative translation adjustment losses of $21 million . a large concentration of the company's defined benefit plans is in the uk. approximately 36% of the company's projected benefit obligation and 47% of defined benefit plan assets are in the uk. market volatility could have a negative impact on both our plan assets and our benefit obligations. however, we believe that the market and associated impacts on the value of our plan assets and assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligation reflect the uncertainties related to brexit. our plan assets and obligations presented in our consolidated balance sheets and in note 17, "profit sharing, retirement savings plan and defined benefit plans," of the notes to consolidated financial statements are valued as of december 31, 2019 . the company and the plans' trustees have employed de-risking strategies in the defined benefit asset portfolios to reduce market volatility risk, interest rate risk and future cash flow risk. our defined benefit assets in the uk are diversified between international equities, fixed income investments, and insurance buy-in contracts which all help mitigate market volatility risk. impact of inflation and currency fluctuation economic and political events in certain countries have exposed us to heightened levels of inflation and foreign currency exchange risks. the effects of these could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. see note 2, summary of significant accounting policies and recently issued accounting standards, in the notes to consolidated financial statements for details regarding the impact of inflation and currency fluctuation. also, for a discussion of our risk factors, please refer to part i, item 1a, risk factors. 61 foreign currency forward contracts we use foreign currency forward contracts to fix the amounts payable or receivable on some transactions denominated in foreign currencies. a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates at december 31, 2019 would have caused us to pay approximately $32 million to terminate these contracts. based on our overall foreign exchange exposure, we estimate this change would not materially affect our financial position and liquidity. the effect on our results of operations would be substantially offset by the impact of the hedged items. our foreign currency forward contracts are described in note 15, derivatives and hedging activities, which is contained in the notes to consolidated financial statements, is incorporated herein by reference. net investment hedge the 400 million 4.50% notes issued in june 2015 are designated as a net investment hedge, hedging a portion of our net investment in a certain european subsidiary against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. the decrease in the translated value of the debt was $2 million net of tax as of december 31, 2019 , and is reflected in long-term debt on our consolidated balance sheets. in march 2015, we entered into a series of cross-currency swaps with a combined notional amount of $425 million, hedging a portion of the net investment in a certain european subsidiary against fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. as a result of the sale of diversey, we terminated these cross-currency swaps in september 2017 and settled these swaps in october 2017. the fair value of the swaps on the date of termination was a liability of $62 million which was partially offset by semi-annual interest settlements of $18 million . this resulted in a net impact of $(44) million recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss ("aocl"). for derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedges of net investments in foreign operations, settlements and changes in fair values of the derivative instruments are recognized in unrealized net gains or loss on derivative instruments for net investment hedge, a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of taxes, to offset the changes in the values of the net investments being hedged. any portion of the net investment hedge that is determined to be ineffective is recorded in other income, net on the consolidated statements of operations. other derivative instruments we may use other derivative instruments from time to time to manage exposure to foreign exchange rates and to access to international financing transactions. these instruments can potentially limit foreign exchange exposure by swapping borrowings denominated in one currency for borrowings denominated in another currency. outstanding debt our outstanding debt is generally denominated in the functional currency of the borrower or in euros as is the case with the issuance of 400 million of 4.50% senior notes due 2023. we believe that this enables us to better match operating cash flows with debt service requirements and to better match the currency of assets and liabilities. the us dollar equivalent amount of outstanding debt denominated in a functional currency other than the u.s. dollar was $500 million and $590 million at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. customer credit we are exposed to credit risk from our customers. in the normal course of business, we extend credit to our customers if they satisfy pre-defined credit criteria. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the failure of our customers to make required payments. an additional allowance may be required if the financial condition of our customers deteriorates. the allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level that management assesses to be appropriate to absorb estimated losses in the accounts receivable portfolio. our customers may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. our provision for bad debt expense was $2 million for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018 and less than $1 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 . the allowance for doubtful accounts was $8 million and $9 million at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. 62 pensions many of our u.s. and international defined benefit pension plans are invested in assets which will be used to cover future benefit payments. assets may include investments in mutual funds, collective investment trusts, index-funds, corporate bonds, government-backed bonds and insurance contracts or annuity or "buy-ins." the assets include both return seeking assets and liability-hedging assets. as the population of the plan participants age and future cash flows become more certain, we undertake asset de-risking initiatives, including the purchase of buy-in contracts, particularly in the united kingdom. these investments provide a stream of income equal to future benefit payments for pre-defined groups of participants, however, the company maintains the primary liability for the projected benefit obligation related to these groups. as of december 31, 2019 , buy-in contracts represented $120 million, or 16% of the company's total plan assets. additionally, our plan assets may, from time to time, be invested in assets designed to diversify the investment portfolio and protect against equity market movements. some of these assets may only be redeemed on a quarterly basis. as of december 31, 2019 , equity diversifying assets represented $55 million, or 7% of the company's total plan assets. other than the buy-in contracts and equity diversifiers noted above, we believe that our plan assets are highly liquid and may be readily redeemed to cover necessary plan payments. there is a high degree of predictability of payments made from our defined benefit plans. based upon the annual valuation of our defined benefit pension plans at december 31, 2019 , we expect net periodic benefit expense to be less than $1 million in 2020 . see note 17, profit sharing, retirement savings plans and defined benefit pension plans, of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further details on our defined benefit pension plans. commodities we use various commodity raw materials such as plastic resins and energy products such as electric power and natural gas in conjunction with our manufacturing processes. generally, we acquire these components at market prices in the region in which they will be used and do not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. moreover, we seek to maintain appropriate levels of commodity raw material inventories thus minimizing the expense and risks of carrying excess inventories. we do not typically purchase substantial quantities in advance of production requirements. as a result, we are exposed to market risks related to changes in commodity prices of these components. 63