quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk..................................................40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk discussion of this item is on page 37 of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk........29 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk discussion of this item is on page 26 of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk......37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk discussion of this item is included in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 12 risk factors factors affecting our future operating results the majority of our business is derived from companies in developed countries. the current economic downturns or recessions in these countries may continue to adversely affect our operating results. although the percentage of our sales coming from emerging markets is growing, the majority of our business is still derived from companies in developed countries. because our customers often decrease or delay capital expenditures in difficult economic times, economic downturns or recessions in developed countries adversely affect our operating results. during 2009 we have experienced significant decreases and delays in customer expenditures, which may continue and possibly worsen. customers may also purchase lower-cost products made by competitors and not resume purchasing our products even after economic conditions improve. these conditions would reduce our revenues and profitability. we are subject to certain risks associated with our international operations and fluctuating conditions in emerging markets. we conduct business in many countries, including emerging markets in asia, latin america and eastern europe, and these operations represent a significant portion of our sales and earnings. for example, our chinese operations account for $232.6 million of sales to external customers and $69.4 million of segment profit. in addition to the currency risks discussed below, international operations pose other substantial risks and problems for us. for instance, various local jurisdictions in which we operate may revise or alter their respective legal and regulatory requirements. in addition, we may encounter one or more of the following obstacles or risks: tariffs and trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and/or mandatory salary increases for local employees; credit risks arising from financial difficulties facing local customers and distributors; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; nationalization of private enterprises may result in the confiscation of assets as we hold significant assets around the world in the form of property, plant and equipment, inventory and accounts receivable, as well as $40.1 million of cash at december 31, 2009 in our chinese subsidiaries; restrictions on investments and/or limitations regarding foreign ownership; adverse tax consequences, including tax disputes, imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; and other uncertain local economic, political and social conditions, including hyper-inflationary conditions or periods of low or no productivity growth. we must also comply with a variety of regulations regarding the conversion and repatriation of funds earned in local currencies. for example, converting earnings from our operations in china into other currencies and repatriating these funds require governmental approvals. if we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in utilizing cash flow generated by these operations outside of china. economic conditions in emerging markets deteriorated significantly during 2009 and experienced recessionary trends, particularly in eastern europe. certain emerging markets have also experienced severe currency devaluations and inflationary prices. economic problems in individual markets can also spread to other economies, adding to the adverse conditions we may face in emerging markets. we remain committed to emerging markets, particularly those in asia, latin america and eastern europe. however, we expect fluctuating economic conditions may continue to affect our results of operations in these markets for the foreseeable future. 12 table of contents we operate in highly competitive markets, and it may be difficult to preserve operating margins, gain market share and maintain a technological advantage. our markets are highly competitive. many of the markets in which we compete are fragmented both geographically and by application, particularly the industrial and food retailing markets. as a result, we face numerous regional or specialized competitors, many of which are well established in their markets. in addition, some of our competitors are divisions of larger companies with potentially greater financial and other resources than our own. some of our competitors are domiciled or operate in emerging markets and may have a lower cost structure than ours. we are confronted with new competitors in emerging markets who, although relatively small in size today, could become larger companies in their home markets. given the sometimes significant growth rates of these emerging markets, and in light of their cost advantage over developed markets, emerging market competitors could become more significant global competitors. taken together, the competitive forces present in our markets can impair our operating margins in certain product lines and geographic markets. we expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive prices. although we believe that we have certain technological and other advantages over our competitors, we may not be able to realize and maintain these advantages. our product development efforts may not produce commercially viable products in a timely manner. we must introduce new products and enhancements in a timely manner, or our products could become technologically obsolete over time, which would harm our operating results. to remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development, sales and marketing and customer service and support. we cannot be sure that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments. in developing new products, we may be required to make substantial investments before we can determine their commercial viability. as a result, we may not be successful in developing new products and we may never realize the benefits of our research and development activities. our ability to deliver products and services may be disrupted. an interruption in our business due to events such as natural disasters, pandemics or other health crises, fires, explosions or issues with the supply chain may cause us to temporarily be unable to deliver products or services to our customers. it may be expensive to resolve these issues, even though some of these risks are covered by insurance policies. more importantly, customers may switch to competitors and may not return to us even if we resolve the interruption. a widespread outbreak of an illness or other health issue could negatively affect our business, making it more difficult and expensive to meet our obligations to our customers, and could result in reduced demand from our customers. a number of countries have recently experienced outbreaks of the h1n1 influenza (swine flu). a number of countries in the asia pacific region have also experienced outbreaks of sars and/or avian influenza (bird flu) in recent years. despite the implementation of certain precautions, we are susceptible to such outbreaks. as a result of such outbreaks, businesses can be shut down and individuals can become ill or quarantined. outbreaks of infectious diseases such as these, particularly in north america, europe, china or other locations significant to our operations, could adversely affect general commercial activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. if our operations are curtailed because of health issues, we may need to seek alternate sources of supply for services and staff and these alternate sources may be more expensive. alternate sources may not be available or may result in delays in shipments to our customers, each of which would affect our results of operations. in addition, a curtailment of our product design operations could result in delays in the development of new products. further, if our customers businesses are affected by health issues, they might delay or reduce purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 13 table of contents we are vulnerable to system failures, which could harm our business. we rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, support our customers, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make payments. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data or reduced functionality. a significant number of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation and financial condition. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our services as a result of system failures. we also are in the process of implementing our blue ocean program, a program to globalize our business processes and information technology systems that includes the implementation of a company-wide enterprise resource planning system. the implementation of this program will proceed on a staggered basis over a several year period with the initial go-live rollout occurring in early 2010. if the implementation of any unit is flawed, we could suffer interruptions in operations and customer-facing activities which could harm our reputation and financial condition, lose data, experience reduced functionality or have delays in reporting financial information. it may take us longer to implement the blue ocean program than we have planned for, and the project may cost us more than we have estimated, either of which would negatively impact our ability to generate cost savings or other efficiencies. in addition, the implementation of blue ocean will increase our reliance on a single information technology system which would have greater consequences should we experience a system disruption. a prolonged downturn or additional consolidation in the pharmaceutical, food, food retailing and chemical industries could adversely affect our operating results. our products are used extensively in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage and chemical industries. consolidation in the pharmaceutical and chemical industries hurt our sales in prior years. a prolonged economic downturn or additional consolidation in any of these industries could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, the capital spending policies of our customers in these industries are based on a variety of factors we cannot control, including the resources available for purchasing equipment, the spending priorities among various types of equipment and policies regarding capital expenditures. any decrease or delay in capital spending by our customers would cause our revenues to decline and could harm our profitability. we may face risks associated with future acquisitions. we may pursue acquisitions of complementary product lines, technologies or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired operations, technologies and products; diversion of management attention from other business concerns; and potential departures of key employees of the acquired company. if we successfully identify acquisitions in the future, completing such acquisitions may result in new issuances of our stock that may be dilutive to current owners, increases in our debt and contingent liabilities and additional amortization expenses related to intangible assets. any of these acquisition-related risks could have a material adverse affect on our profitability. larger companies have identified life sciences and instruments as businesses they will consider entering, which could change the competitive dynamics of these markets. in addition, we may not be able to identify, successfully complete or integrate potential acquisitions in the future. however, even if we can do so, we cannot be sure that these acquisitions will have a positive impact on our business or operating results. 14 table of contents if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights, or if we infringe or misappropriate the proprietary rights of others, our operating results could be harmed. our success depends on our ability to obtain and enforce patents on our technology, maintain our trademarks and protect our trade secrets. our patents may not provide complete protection, and competitors may develop similar products that are not covered by our patents. our patents may also be challenged by third parties and invalidated or narrowed. competitors sometimes seek to take advantage of our trademarks or brands in ways that may create customer confusion or weaken our brand. although we take measures to protect confidential information, improper use or disclosure of our trade secrets may still occur. we may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. the cost of any litigation could affect our profitability regardless of the outcome, and management attention could be diverted. if we are unsuccessful in such litigation, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing activity and/or obtain a license. if we fail to obtain a required license, we may be unable to sell some of our products, which could result in a decline in our revenues. departures of key employees could impair our operations. we generally have employment contracts with each of our key employees. our executive officers own shares of our common stock and/or have options to purchase additional shares. nevertheless, such individuals could leave the company. if any key employees stopped working for us, our operations could be harmed. important r d personnel may leave and join competitors, which could substantially delay or hinder ongoing development projects. we have no key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our senior executives. we may be adversely affected by environmental laws and regulations. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. we incur expenditures in complying with environmental laws and regulations. we are currently involved in, or have potential liability with respect to, the remediation of past contamination in various facilities. in addition, some of our facilities are or have been in operation for many decades and may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are hazardous or may be considered hazardous in the future. these sites and disposal sites owned by others to which we sent waste may in the future be identified as contaminated and require remediation. accordingly, it is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that may harm our results of operations or financial condition. we may be adversely affected by failure to comply with regulations of governmental agencies or by the adoption of new regulations. our products are subject to regulation by governmental agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of activities relating to our products, from design and development, to product safety, labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with these regulations, or if new regulations are adopted that substantially change existing practice or impose new burdens, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution. in addition, we could be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. we may experience impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets. as of december 31, 2009, our consolidated balance sheet included goodwill of $441.0 million and other intangible assets of $105.3 million. our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment expense. the determination of the 15 table of contents value of such intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. in accordance with u.s. gaap, our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. the evaluation is based on valuation models that estimate fair value based on expected future cash flows and profitability projections. in preparing the valuation models we consider a number of factors, including operating results, business plans, economic conditions, future cash flows, and transactions and market data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in applying them to the impairment analyses. the significant estimates and assumptions within our fair value models include sales growth, controllable cost growth, perpetual growth, effective tax rates and discount rates. our assessments to date have indicated that there has been no impairment of these assets. should any of these estimates or assumptions change, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, including from a prolonged economic slowdown, we may experience a triggering event that requires a new fair value assessment for our reporting units, possibly prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and resulting analysis could result in impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets if the fair value estimate declines below the carrying value. our amortization expense related to intangible assets with finite lives may materially change should our estimates of their useful lives change. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could impact our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and various other foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to allocation of expenses among different jurisdictions. our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction, changes in tax laws or tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and material adjustments from tax audits. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the u.s., is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in the u.s. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. currency fluctuations affect our operating profits. because we conduct operations in many countries, our operating income can be significantly affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. swiss franc-denominated expenses represent a much greater percentage of our total operating expenses than swiss franc-denominated sales represent of our total net sales. in part, this is because most of our manufacturing costs in switzerland relate to products that are sold outside switzerland. moreover, a substantial percentage of our research and development expenses and general and administrative expenses are incurred in switzerland. therefore, if the swiss franc strengthens against all or most of our major trading currencies (e.g . , the u.s. dollar, the euro, other major european currencies, the chinese yuan and the japanese yen), our operating profit is reduced. we also have significantly more sales in european currencies (other than the swiss franc) than we have expenses in those currencies. therefore, when european currencies weaken against the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc, it also decreases our operating profits. accordingly, the swiss franc exchange rate to the euro is an important cross-rate that we monitor. in recent years, we have seen higher volatility in exchange rates generally than in the past, and the swiss franc has strengthened against the euro. we estimate that a 1% strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro would result in a decrease in our earnings before tax of $1.1 million to $1.4 million on an annual basis. in addition to the swiss franc and major european currencies, we also conduct business in many geographies throughout the world, including asia pacific, eastern europe, 16 table of contents latin america and canada. fluctuations in these currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar can also affect our operating results. in addition to the effects of exchange rate movements on operating profits, our debt levels can fluctuate due to changes in exchange rates, particularly between the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc. based on our outstanding debt at december 31, 2009, we estimate that a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against the currencies in which our debt is denominated would result in an increase of approximately $7.1 million in the reported u.s. dollar value of the debt. we have substantial debt and we may incur substantially more debt, which could affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities. we have substantial debt and we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. as of december 31, 2009, we had total indebtedness of approximately $208.5 million, net of cash of $85.0 million. we are also permitted by the terms of our debt instruments to incur substantial additional indebtedness, subject to the restrictions therein. the existence and magnitude of our debt could have important consequences. for example, it could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt instruments; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development and other corporate requirements; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in raw material costs; limit our ability to respond to business opportunities; limit our ability to borrow additional funds, which may be necessary; and subject us to financial and other restrictive covenants, which, if we fail to comply with these covenants and our failure is not waived or cured, could result in an event of default under our debt instruments. in the current difficult environment, our creditors can be expected to strictly enforce the terms of our debt instruments. although we believe we are currently in compliance with all requirements under the agreements governing our debt, if we fail to comply in the future with a requirement, our access to our credit facility and ability to borrow further may be limited. in such circumstances, we may not be able to refinance our existing debt or only be able to do so at significantly higher costs. the agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. the indenture and note purchase agreement governing our senior notes and the agreements governing our credit facility contain covenants imposing various restrictions on our business. these restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. the restrictions these covenants place on us include limitations on our ability to incur liens and consolidate, merge, sell or lease all or substantially all of our assets. our credit facility and the note purchase agreement governing our senior notes also require us to meet certain financial ratios. our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions, and are subject to the risks in this section. the breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the indenture or note purchase agreement governing the senior notes and/or under our credit facility. an event of default under the agreements governing our debt would permit holders of our debt to declare all amounts owed to them under such agreements to be immediately due and payable. acceleration of our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable to make interest payments on the senior notes and repay the principal amount of the senior notes. the lenders under our credit agreement may be unable to meet their funding commitments, reducing the amount of our borrowing capacity. we have a revolving credit facility outstanding under which the company and certain of its subsidiaries may borrow up to $950 million. our credit facility is provided by a group of 20 financial institutions, who individually have between 1% and 11% of the total funding commitment. at december 31, 2009, we had borrowings of $91.1 million outstanding under our credit facility. our ability to borrow further funds under our credit facility is subject to the various lenders financial condition and ability to make funds available. 17 table of contents even though the financial institutions are contractually obligated to lend funds, if one or more of the lenders encounters financial difficulties or goes bankrupt, such lenders may be unable to meet their obligations. this could result in the company being unable to borrow the full $950 million. we make from time to time forward-looking statements, and actual events or results may differ materially from these statements because assumptions we have made prove incorrect due to market conditions in our industries or other factors. we from time to time provide forward-looking statements both in our filings with the sec and orally in connection with our quarterly earnings calls, including guidance on anticipated earnings per share. these statements are only predictions. actual events or results may differ materially from these statements because assumptions we have made prove incorrect due to market conditions in our industries or other factors. we refer you to the factors discussed under the captions factors affecting our future operating results in the business section and the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations section of this annual report on form 10-k, which describe risks and factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in those forward-looking statements. we operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. management cannot predict these new risk factors, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of these new risk factors on our businesses or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. in providing guidance on our future earnings our management evaluates our budgets, our strategic plan and certain factors relating to our business. this evaluation requires management to make several key assumptions relating to both external and internal factors. some of the key external assumptions include: the outlook for our end markets and the global economy; impact of external factors on our competition; financial position of our customers; the estimated costs of purchasing materials; developments in personnel costs; and rates for currency exchange, particularly between the swiss franc and the euro. some of these assumptions may prove to be incorrect over time. for example, although no one customer accounts for more than 1% of our revenues, if a number of our customers experienced significant deteriorations in their financial positions concurrently, it could have an impact on our results of operations. some of our key internal assumptions include the following: our ability to implement our business strategy; effectiveness of our marketing programs such as our spinnaker initiatives; our ability to develop and deliver innovative products and services; continued growth in our sales in emerging markets; our ability to implement price increases as forecasted; and the effectiveness of our cost saving initiatives, including our restructuring activities. these internal assumptions may also prove to be incorrect over time. for example, with respect to our ability to realize our planned price increases without disturbing our customer base in core markets, in certain markets, such as emerging markets, price tends to be a more significant factor in customers decisions to purchase our products. furthermore, we can have no assurance that our cost reduction programs will 18 table of contents generate adequate cost savings. additionally, it may become necessary to take additional restructuring actions resulting in additional restructuring costs. we believe our current assumptions are reasonable and prudent for planning purposes. however, should any of these assumptions prove to be incorrect, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, we may experience results different than our projections. our ability to generate cash depends on factors beyond our control. our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. this, to an extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, including those described in this section, that are beyond our control. we cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. we cannot ensure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and the senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 19 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk discussion of this item is included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 12 risk factors factors affecting our future operating results the majority of our business is derived from companies in developed countries. continued economic uncertainty in these countries may adversely affect our operating results. although the percentage of our sales coming from emerging markets is growing, the majority of our business is still derived from companies in developed countries. because our customers often decrease or delay capital expenditures in difficult economic times, economic downturns or recessions in developed countries adversely affect our operating results. customers may also purchase lower-cost products made by competitors and not resume purchasing our products even after economic conditions improve. these conditions would reduce our revenues and profitability. we are subject to certain risks associated with our international operations and fluctuating conditions in emerging markets. we conduct business in many countries, including emerging markets in asia, latin america and eastern europe, and these operations represent a significant portion of our sales and earnings. for example, our chinese operations account for $298.6 million of sales to external customers and $93.0 million of segment profit during 2010. in addition to the currency risks discussed below, international operations pose other substantial risks and problems for us. for instance, various local jurisdictions in which we operate may revise or alter their respective legal and regulatory requirements. in addition, we may encounter one or more of the following obstacles or risks: tariffs and trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and/or mandatory salary increases for local employees; credit risks arising from financial difficulties facing local customers and distributors; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; nationalization of private enterprises which may result in the confiscation of assets as we hold significant assets around the world in the form of property, plant and equipment, inventory and accounts receivable, as well as $105.5 million of cash at december 31, 2010 in our chinese subsidiaries; restrictions on investments and/or limitations regarding foreign ownership; adverse tax consequences, including tax disputes, imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; and other uncertain local economic, political and social conditions, including hyper-inflationary conditions or periods of low or no productivity growth. we must also comply with a variety of regulations regarding the conversion and repatriation of funds earned in local currencies. for example, converting earnings from our operations in china into other currencies and repatriating these funds require governmental approvals. if we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in utilizing cash flow generated by these operations outside of china. while business activity in emerging markets improved during 2010, fluctuating economic conditions may continue to affect our results of operations in these markets for the foreseeable future. certain emerging markets have also experienced currency devaluations and inflationary prices. economic problems in individual markets can also spread to other economies, adding to the adverse conditions we may face in emerging markets. we remain committed to emerging markets, particularly those in asia, latin america and eastern europe. however, fluctuating economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations in these markets. 12 table of contents we operate in highly competitive markets, and it may be difficult to preserve operating margins, gain market share and maintain a technological advantage. our markets are highly competitive. many of the markets in which we compete are fragmented both geographically and by application, particularly the industrial and food retailing markets. as a result, we face numerous regional or specialized competitors, many of which are well established in their markets. in addition, some of our competitors are divisions of larger companies with potentially greater financial and other resources than our own. some of our competitors are domiciled or operate in emerging markets and may have a lower cost structure than ours. we are confronted with new competitors in emerging markets who, although relatively small in size today, could become larger companies in their home markets. given the sometimes significant growth rates of these emerging markets, and in light of their cost advantage over developed markets, emerging market competitors could become more significant global competitors. taken together, the competitive forces present in our markets can impair our operating margins in certain product lines and geographic markets. we expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive prices. although we believe that we have certain technological and other advantages over our competitors, we may not be able to realize and maintain these advantages. we are vulnerable to system failures, which could harm our business. we rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, support our customers, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make payments. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data or reduced functionality. a significant number of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation and financial condition. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our services as a result of system failures. we also are in the process of implementing our blue ocean program, a program to globalize our business processes and information technology systems that includes the implementation of a company-wide enterprise resource planning system. the implementation of this program will proceed on a staggered basis over a several year period with the initial go-live rollout having occurred in 2010. if the implementation of any unit is flawed, we could suffer interruptions in operations and customer-facing activities which could harm our reputation and financial condition, or cause us to lose data, experience reduced functionality or have delays in reporting financial information. it may take us longer to implement the blue ocean program than we have planned, and the project may cost us more than we have estimated, either of which would negatively impact our ability to generate cost savings or other efficiencies. in addition, the implementation of blue ocean will increase our reliance on a single information technology system which would have greater consequences should we experience a system disruption. our ability to deliver products and services may be disrupted. an interruption in our business due to events such as disruptions with our supply chain, natural disasters, pandemics or other health crises, fires or explosions may cause us to temporarily be unable to deliver products or services to our customers. it may be expensive to resolve these issues, even though some of these risks are covered by insurance policies. more importantly, customers may switch to competitors and may not return to us even if we resolve the interruption. our product development efforts may not produce commercially viable products in a timely manner. we must introduce new products and enhancements in a timely manner, or our products could become technologically obsolete over time, which would harm our operating results. to remain competitive, we must 13 table of contents continue to make significant investments in research and development, sales and marketing and customer service and support. we cannot be sure that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments. in developing new products, we may be required to make substantial investments before we can determine their commercial viability. as a result, we may not be successful in developing new products and we may never realize the benefits of our research and development activities. a widespread outbreak of an illness or other health issue could negatively affect our business, making it more difficult and expensive to meet our obligations to our customers, and could result in reduced demand from our customers. in recent years, a number of countries have experienced outbreaks of the h1n1 influenza (swine flu) or, in the asia pacific region, outbreaks of sars and/or avian influenza (bird flu). despite the implementation of certain precautions, we are susceptible to such outbreaks. as a result of such outbreaks, businesses can be shut down and individuals can become ill or quarantined. outbreaks of infectious diseases such as these, particularly in north america, europe, china or other locations significant to our operations, could adversely affect general commercial activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. if our operations are curtailed because of health issues, we may need to seek alternate sources of supply for services and staff and these alternate sources may be more expensive. alternate sources may not be available or may result in delays in shipments to our customers, each of which would affect our results of operations. in addition, a curtailment of our product design operations could result in delays in the development of new products. further, if our customers businesses are affected by health issues, they might delay or reduce purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. a prolonged downturn or additional consolidation in the pharmaceutical, food, food retailing and chemical industries could adversely affect our operating results. our products are used extensively in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage and chemical industries. consolidation in the pharmaceutical and chemical industries hurt our sales in prior years. a prolonged economic downturn or additional consolidation in any of these industries could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, the capital spending policies of our customers in these industries are based on a variety of factors we cannot control, including the resources available for purchasing equipment, the spending priorities among various types of equipment and policies regarding capital expenditures. any decrease or delay in capital spending by our customers would cause our revenues to decline and could harm our profitability. we may face risks associated with future acquisitions. we may pursue acquisitions of complementary product lines, technologies or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired operations, technologies and products; diversion of management attention from other business concerns; and potential departures of key employees of the acquired company. if we successfully identify acquisitions in the future, completing such acquisitions may result in new issuances of our stock that may be dilutive to current owners, increases in our debt and contingent liabilities and additional amortization expense related to intangible assets. any of these acquisition-related risks could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. larger companies have identified life sciences and instruments as businesses they will consider entering, which could change the competitive dynamics of these markets. in addition, we may not be able to identify, successfully complete or integrate potential acquisitions in the future. however, even if we can do so, we cannot be sure that these acquisitions will have a positive impact on our business or operating results. 14 table of contents if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights, or if we infringe or misappropriate the proprietary rights of others, our operating results could be harmed. our success depends on our ability to obtain and enforce patents on our technology, maintain our trademarks and protect our trade secrets. our patents may not provide complete protection, and competitors may develop similar products that are not covered by our patents. our patents may also be challenged by third parties and invalidated or narrowed. competitors sometimes seek to take advantage of our trademarks or brands in ways that may create customer confusion or weaken our brand. although we take measures to protect confidential information, improper use or disclosure of our trade secrets may still occur. we may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. the cost of any litigation could affect our profitability regardless of the outcome, and management attention could be diverted. if we are unsuccessful in such litigation, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing activity and/or obtain a license. if we fail to obtain a required license, we may be unable to sell some of our products, which could result in a decline in our revenues. departures of key employees could impair our operations. we generally have employment contracts with each of our key employees. our executive officers own shares of our common stock and/or have options to purchase additional shares. nevertheless, such individuals could leave the company. if any key employees stopped working for us, our operations could be harmed. important r d personnel may leave and join competitors, which could substantially delay or hinder ongoing development projects. we have no key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our senior executives. we may be adversely affected by environmental laws and regulations. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. we incur expenditures in complying with environmental laws and regulations. we are currently involved in, or have potential liability with respect to, the remediation of past contamination in various facilities. in addition, some of our facilities are or have been in operation for many decades and may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are hazardous or may be considered hazardous in the future. these sites and disposal sites owned by others to which we sent waste may in the future be identified as contaminated and require remediation. accordingly, it is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that may harm our results of operations or financial condition. we may be adversely affected by failure to comply with regulations of governmental agencies or by the adoption of new regulations. our products are subject to regulation by governmental agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of activities relating to our products, from design and development, to product safety, labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with these regulations, or if new regulations are adopted that substantially change existing practice or impose new burdens, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution. in addition, we could be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. we may experience impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets. as of december 31, 2010, our consolidated balance sheet included goodwill of $434.7 million and other intangible assets of $104.4 million. our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment expense. the determination of the 15 table of contents value of such intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. in accordance with u.s. gaap, our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. the evaluation is based on valuation models that estimate fair value based on expected future cash flows and profitability projections. in preparing the valuation models we consider a number of factors, including operating results, business plans, economic conditions, future cash flows, and transactions and market data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in applying them to the impairment analyses. the significant estimates and assumptions within our fair value models include sales growth, controllable cost growth, perpetual growth, effective tax rates and discount rates. our assessments to date have indicated that there has been no impairment of these assets. should any of these estimates or assumptions change, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, including from a prolonged economic slowdown, we may experience a triggering event that requires a new fair value assessment for our reporting units, possibly prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and resulting analysis could result in impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets if the fair value estimate declines below the carrying value. our amortization expense related to intangible assets with finite lives may materially change should our estimates of their useful lives change. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could impact our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and various other foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to allocation of expenses among different jurisdictions. our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction, changes in tax laws or tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and material adjustments from tax audits. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the u.s., is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in the u.s. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. currency fluctuations affect our operating profits. because we conduct operations in many countries, our operating income can be significantly affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. swiss franc-denominated expenses represent a much greater percentage of our total operating expenses than swiss franc-denominated sales represent of our total net sales. in part, this is because most of our manufacturing and product development costs in switzerland relate to products that are sold outside switzerland. in addition, we have a number of corporate functions located in switzerland. therefore, if the swiss franc strengthens against all or most of our major trading currencies (e.g . , the u.s. dollar, the euro, other major european currencies, the chinese yuan and the japanese yen), our operating profit is reduced. we also have significantly more sales in euro than we have expenses. therefore, when the euro weakens against the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc, it also decreases our operating profits. accordingly, the swiss franc exchange rate to the euro is an important cross-rate that we monitor. we have seen higher volatility in exchange rates generally than in the past, and recently the swiss franc has strengthened against the euro. the exchange rate between the swiss franc and the euro was 1.39 during 2010 as compared to 1.51 for the prior year, reflecting an 8% strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro. the current exchange rate for the swiss franc to the euro is 1.30 as of february 8, 2011, reflecting a 6% strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro as compared to 2010. we estimate that a 1% strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro would result in a decrease in our earnings before tax of $1.1 million to $1.8 million on an annual basis. in addition to the swiss 16 table of contents franc and major european currencies, we also conduct business in many geographies throughout the world, including asia pacific, the united kingdom, eastern europe, latin america and canada. fluctuations in these currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar can also affect our operating results. in addition to the effects of exchange rate movements on operating profits, our debt levels can fluctuate due to changes in exchange rates, particularly between the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc. based on our outstanding debt at december 31, 2010, we estimate that a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against the currencies in which our debt is denominated would result in an increase of approximately $9.5 million in the reported u.s. dollar value of the debt. we have debt and we may incur substantially more debt, which could affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities. we have debt and we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. as of december 31, 2010, we had total indebtedness of approximately $233.6 million, net of cash of $447.6 million. we are also permitted by the terms of our debt instruments to incur substantial additional indebtedness, subject to the restrictions therein. the existence and magnitude of our debt could have important consequences. for example, it could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt instruments; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development and other corporate requirements; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in raw material costs; limit our ability to respond to business opportunities; limit our ability to borrow additional funds, which may be necessary; and subject us to financial and other restrictive covenants, which, if we fail to comply with these covenants and our failure is not waived or cured, could result in an event of default under our debt instruments. the agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. the note purchase agreement governing our senior notes and the agreements governing our credit facility contain covenants imposing various restrictions on our business. these restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. the restrictions these covenants place on us include limitations on our ability to incur liens and consolidate, merge, sell or lease all or substantially all of our assets. our credit facility and the note purchase agreement governing our senior notes also require us to meet certain financial ratios. our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions, and is subject to the risks in this section. the breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the note purchase agreement governing the senior notes and/or under our credit facility. an event of default under the agreements governing our debt would permit holders of our debt to declare all amounts owed to them under such agreements to be immediately due and payable. acceleration of our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable to make interest payments on the senior notes and repay the principal amount of the senior notes. the lenders under our credit agreement may be unable to meet their funding commitments, reducing the amount of our borrowing capacity. we have a revolving credit facility outstanding under which the company and certain of its subsidiaries may borrow up to $950 million. our credit facility is provided by a group of 20 financial institutions, who individually have between 1% and 11% of the total funding commitment. at december 31, 2010, we had borrowings of $556.5 million outstanding under our credit facility. our ability to borrow further funds under our credit facility is subject to the various lenders financial condition and ability to make funds available. even though the financial institutions are contractually obligated to lend funds, if one or more of the lenders encounters financial difficulties or goes bankrupt, such lenders may be unable to meet their obligations. this could result in us being unable to borrow the full $950 million. 17 table of contents we make from time to time forward-looking statements, and actual events or results may differ materially from these statements because assumptions we have made prove incorrect due to market conditions in our industries or other factors. we from time to time provide forward-looking statements both in our filings with the sec and orally in connection with our quarterly earnings calls, including guidance on anticipated earnings per share. these statements are only predictions. actual events or results may differ materially from these statements because assumptions we have made prove incorrect due to market conditions in our industries or other factors. we refer you to the factors discussed under the captions factors affecting our future operating results in the business section and the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations section of this annual report on form 10-k, which describe risks and factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in those forward-looking statements. we operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. management cannot predict these new risk factors, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of these new risk factors on our businesses or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. in providing guidance on our future earnings, our management evaluates our budgets, our strategic plan and certain factors relating to our business. this evaluation requires management to make several key assumptions relating to both external and internal factors. some of the key external assumptions include: the outlook for our end markets and the global economy; impact of external factors on our competition; financial position of our customers; the estimated costs of purchasing materials; developments in personnel costs; and rates for currency exchange, particularly between the swiss franc and the euro. some of these assumptions may prove to be incorrect over time. for example, although no one customer accounts for more than 2% of our revenues, if a number of our customers experienced significant deteriorations in their financial positions concurrently, it could have an impact on our results of operations. some of our key internal assumptions include the following: our ability to implement our business strategy; the effectiveness of our marketing programs such as our spinnaker initiatives; our ability to develop and deliver innovative products and services; the continued growth of our sales in emerging markets; our ability to implement price increases as forecasted; and the effectiveness of our cost saving initiatives. these internal assumptions may also prove to be incorrect over time. for example, with respect to our ability to realize our planned price increases without disturbing our customer base in core markets, in certain markets, such as emerging markets, price tends to be a more significant factor in customers decisions to purchase our products. furthermore, we can have no assurance that our cost reduction programs will generate adequate cost savings. additionally, it may become necessary to take additional restructuring actions resulting in additional restructuring costs. we believe our current assumptions are reasonable and prudent for planning purposes. however, should any of these assumptions prove to be incorrect, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, we may experience results different than our projections. 18 table of contents our ability to generate cash depends in part on factors beyond our control. our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. this, to an extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, including those described in this section, that are beyond our control. we cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. we cannot ensure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and the senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 19 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk discussion of this item is included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk discussion of this item is included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 11 risk factors factors affecting our future operating results currency fluctuations may affect our operating profits. because we conduct operations in many countries, our operating income can be significantly affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. swiss franc-denominated expenses represent a much greater percentage of our operating expenses than swiss franc-denominated sales represent of our net sales. in part, this is because most of our manufacturing costs in switzerland relate to products that are sold outside switzerland. moreover, a substantial percentage of our research and development expenses and general and administrative expenses are incurred in switzerland. therefore, if the swiss franc strengthens against all or most of our major trading currencies (e.g . , the u.s. dollar, the euro, other major european currencies and the japanese yen), our operating profit is reduced. we also have significantly more sales in european currencies (other than the swiss franc) than we have expenses in those currencies. therefore, when european currencies weaken against the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc, it also decreases our operating profits. accordingly, the swiss franc exchange rate to the euro is an important cross-rate monitored by the company. we estimate that a 1% strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro would result in a decrease in our earnings before tax of approximately $1 million on an annual basis. in addition to the effects of exchange rate movements on operating profits, our debt levels can fluctuate due to changes in exchange rates, particularly between the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc. based on our outstanding debt at december 31, 2005, we estimate that a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against the currencies in which our debt is denominated would result in an increase of approximately $33.4 million in the reported u.s. dollar value of the debt. we are subject to certain risks associated with our international operations and fluctuating conditions in emerging markets. we conduct business in many countries, including emerging markets in asia, latin america and eastern europe and these operations represent a significant potion of our sales and earnings. for example our chinese operations account for $116.9 million of sales to external customers and $40.2 million of segment profit. in addition to the currency risks discussed above, international operations pose other substantial risks and problems for us. for instance, various local jurisdictions in which we operate may revise or alter their respective legal and regulatory requirements. in addition, we may encounter one or more of the following obstacles or risks: tariffs and trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, and/or mandatory salary increases for local employees; credit risks arising from financial difficulties facing local customers and distributors; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; nationalization of private enterprises; restrictions on investments and/or limitations regarding foreign ownership; adverse tax consequences, including imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; and other uncertain local economic, political and social conditions, including hyper-inflationary conditions, or periods of low or no productivity growth. we must also comply with a variety of regulations regarding the conversion and repatriation of funds earned in local currencies. for example, converting earnings from our operations in china into other currencies and repatriating these funds require governmental approvals. if we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in utilizing cash flow generated by these operations outside of china. 11 table of contents economic conditions in emerging markets have from time to time deteriorated significantly, and some emerging markets are experiencing recessionary trends, severe currency devaluations and inflationary prices. moreover, economic problems in individual markets can spread to other economies, adding to the adverse conditions we face in emerging markets. we remain committed to emerging markets, particularly those in asia, latin america and eastern europe. however, we expect the fluctuating economic conditions will affect our results of operations in these markets for the foreseeable future. we operate in highly competitive markets, and it may be difficult to preserve operating margins, gain market share and maintain a technological advantage. our markets are highly competitive. weighing and analytical instruments markets are also fragmented both geographically and by application, particularly the industrial and food retailing markets. as a result, we face numerous regional or specialized competitors, many of whom are well established in their markets. in addition, some of our competitors are divisions of larger companies with potentially greater financial and other resources than our company. taken together, the competitive forces present in our markets can impair our operating margins in certain product lines and geographic markets. we expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive prices. although we believe that we have certain technological and other advantages over our competitors, we may not be able to realize and maintain these advantages. our product development efforts may not produce commercially viable products in a timely manner. we must introduce new products and enhancements in a timely manner, or our products could become technologically obsolete over time, which would harm our operating results. to remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and customer service and support. we cannot be sure that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments. in developing new products, we may be required to make substantial investments before we can determine their commercial viability. as a result, we may not be successful in developing new products and we may never realize the benefits of our research and development activities. a prolonged downturn or additional consolidation in the pharmaceutical, food, food retailing and chemicals industries could adversely affect our operating results. our products are used extensively in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage and chemical industries. consolidation in the pharmaceutical and chemicals industries hurt our sales in prior years. a prolonged downturn or additional consolidation in any of these industries could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, the capital spending policies of our customers in these industries are based on a variety of factors we cannot control, including the resources available for purchasing equipment, the spending priorities among various types of equipment and policies regarding capital expenditures generally. any decrease or delay in capital spending by our customers would cause our revenues to decline and could harm our profitability. we may face risks associated with future acquisitions. we plan to pursue acquisitions of complementary product lines, technologies or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired operations, technologies and products; diversion of management attention from other business concerns; and potential departures of key employees of the acquired company. if we successfully identify acquisitions in the future, completing such acquisitions may result in: new issuances of our stock that may be dilutive to current owners; increases in our debt and contingent liabilities; and 12 table of contents additional amortization expenses related to intangible assets. any of these acquisition-related risks could materially adversely affect our profitability. larger companies have identified life sciences and instruments as businesses they will consider entering, which could change the competitive dynamics of these markets. in addition, we may not be able to identify, successfully complete or integrate potential acquisitions in the future. however, even if we can do so, we cannot be sure that these acquisitions will have a positive impact on our business or operating results. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights, or if we infringe or misappropriate the proprietary rights of others, our operating results could be harmed. our success depends on our ability to obtain and enforce patents on our technology and to protect our trade secrets. our patents may not provide complete protection, and competitors may develop similar products that are not covered by our patents. our patents may also be challenged by third parties and invalidated or narrowed. although we take measures to protect confidential information, improper use or disclosure of our trade secrets may still occur. we may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. the cost of any litigation could affect our profitability regardless of the outcome, and management attention could be diverted. if we are unsuccessful in such litigation, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing activity and/or obtain a license. if we fail to obtain a required license, we may be unable to sell some of our products, which could result in a decline in our revenues. departures of key employees could impair our operations. we have employment contracts with each of our key employees. in addition, our key employees own shares of our common stock and/or have options to purchase additional shares. nevertheless, such individuals could leave the company. if any key employees stopped working for us, our operations could be harmed. we have no key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our senior executives. we may be adversely affected by environmental laws and regulations. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to: air emissions; wastewater discharges; the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. we incur capital and operating expenditures in complying with environmental laws and regulations both in the u.s. and abroad. we are currently involved in, or have potential liability with respect to, the remediation of past contamination in facilities both in the u.s. and abroad. in addition, some of these facilities have or had been in operation for many decades and may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are hazardous or may be considered hazardous in the future. these sites and disposal sites owned by others to which we sent waste may in the future be identified as contaminated and require remediation. accordingly, it is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that may harm our results of operations or financial condition. we may be adversely affected by failure to comply with regulations of governmental agencies. our products are subject to regulation by governmental agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of activities relating to our products, from design and development, to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with these regulations, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution. in addition, we could be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. 13 table of contents we may experience impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets. starting in 2002, our goodwill amortization charges have ceased. as of december 31, 2005, our consolidated balance sheet included goodwill of $423.0 million and other intangible assets of $105.2 million. our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment expense that we will incur. the determination of the value of such intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. in accordance with sfas no. 142, goodwill and other intangible assets ( sfas 142 ), our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. the evaluation is based on valuation models that estimate fair value based on expected future cash flows and profitability projections. in preparing the valuation models we consider a number of factors, including operating results, business plans, economic conditions, future cash flows, and transactions and market place data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in applying them to the impairment analyses. the significant estimates and assumptions within our fair value models include sales growth, controllable cost growth, perpetual growth, effective tax rates and discount rates. our assessments to date have indicated that there has been no impairment of these assets. our drug discovery reporting unit is sensitive to changes in biopharma capital spending. we currently estimate the fair value of the company drug discovery reporting unit exceeds its carrying value as of december 31, 2005. in accordance with the provisions of sfas 142, the company monitors the fair value of this reporting unit closely to determine if the business plans are being achieved. for example, we monitor whether the forecasted benefits of our drug discovery cost reduction programs are being realized. should any of these estimates or assumptions in the preceding paragraphs change, or should we incur lower than expected operating performance or cash flows, we may experience a triggering event that requires a new fair value assessment for our reporting units, possibly prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and resulting analysis could result in impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets if the fair value estimate declines below the carrying value. our amortization expense related to intangible assets with finite lives may materially change should our estimates of their useful lives change. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could impact our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and various other foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to allocation of expenses among different jurisdictions. our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by: changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction; changes in tax laws or tax rates; changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities; and material adjustments from tax audits. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the u.s., is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in the u.s. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. 14 table of contents we have substantial debt and we may incur substantially more debt, which could affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities. we have substantial debt and we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. as of december 31, 2005, we had total indebtedness of approximately $125.6 million, net of cash of $324.6 million. we are also permitted by the terms of our debt instruments to incur substantial additional indebtedness, subject to the restrictions therein. our debt could have important consequences to you. for example, it could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt instruments; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development and other corporate requirements; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in raw material costs; limit our ability to respond to business opportunities; limit our ability to borrow additional funds, which may be necessary; and subject us to financial and other restrictive covenants, which, if we fail to comply with these covenants and our failure is not waived or cured, could result in an event of default under our debt. to service our debt, we will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. this, to an extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, including those described in this section, that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, or to fund our other liquidity needs. we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. we cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and the senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. the indenture governing our senior notes and the agreements governing our credit facility contain a number of covenants imposing significant restrictions on our business. these restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. the restrictions these covenants place on us and our restricted subsidiaries include limitations on our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: enter into sale and leaseback arrangements; incur liens; and consolidate, merge, sell or lease all or substantially all of our assets. our credit facility also requires us to meet several financial ratios. our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions, and are subject to the risks in this section. the breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the indenture governing the senior notes or under our credit facility. an event of default under our credit facility would permit our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be immediately due and payable. acceleration of 15 table of contents our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable to make interest payments on the senior notes and repay the principal amount of the senior notes. ceo and cfo certifications our ceo submits an annual written affirmation to the new york stock exchange (nyse) certifying the company compliance with nyse listing rules. the most recent annual affirmation was submitted in 2005. our ceo and cfo also provide certifications pursuant to section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 in connection with our quarterly and annual financial statement filings with the securities and exchange commission. the certifications relating to this annual report are attached as exhibits 31.1 and 31.2. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk discussion of this item is included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 10 risk factors factors affecting our future operating results we are subject to certain risks associated with our international operations and fluctuating conditions in emerging markets. we conduct business in many countries, including emerging markets in asia, latin america and eastern europe and these operations represent a significant potion of our sales and earnings. for example our chinese operations account for $132.7 million of sales to external customers and $45.2 million of segment profit. in addition to the currency risks discussed below, international operations pose other substantial risks and problems for us. for instance, various local jurisdictions in which we operate may revise or alter their respective legal and regulatory requirements. in addition, we may encounter one or more of the following obstacles or risks: tariffs and trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, and/or mandatory salary increases for local employees; credit risks arising from financial difficulties facing local customers and distributors; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; nationalization of private enterprises may result in the confiscation of assets as we hold significant assets around the world in the form of property, plant and equipment, inventory and accounts receivable, as well as $55 million of cash at december 31, 2006 in our chinese subsidiaries; restrictions on investments and/or limitations regarding foreign ownership; adverse tax consequences, including imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; and other uncertain local economic, political and social conditions, including hyper-inflationary conditions, or periods of low or no productivity growth. we must also comply with a variety of regulations regarding the conversion and repatriation of funds earned in local currencies. for example, converting earnings from our operations in china into other currencies and repatriating these funds require governmental approvals. if we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in utilizing cash flow generated by these operations outside of china. economic conditions in emerging markets have from time to time deteriorated significantly, and some emerging markets are experiencing recessionary trends, severe currency devaluations and inflationary prices. moreover, economic problems in individual markets can spread to other economies, adding to the adverse conditions we face in emerging markets. we remain committed to emerging markets, particularly those in asia, latin america and eastern europe. however, we expect the fluctuating economic conditions will affect our results of operations in these markets for the foreseeable future. we operate in highly competitive markets, and it may be difficult to preserve operating margins, gain market share and maintain a technological advantage. our markets are highly competitive. weighing and analytical instruments markets are also fragmented both geographically and by application, particularly the industrial and food retailing markets. as a result, we face numerous regional or specialized competitors, many of whom are well established in their markets. in addition, some of our competitors are divisions of larger companies with potentially greater financial and other resources than our company. taken together, the competitive forces present in our markets can impair our operating margins in certain product lines and geographic markets. we expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with 11 table of contents competitive prices. although we believe that we have certain technological and other advantages over our competitors, we may not be able to realize and maintain these advantages. our product development efforts may not produce commercially viable products in a timely manner. we must introduce new products and enhancements in a timely manner, or our products could become technologically obsolete over time, which would harm our operating results. to remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and customer service and support. we cannot be sure that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments. in developing new products, we may be required to make substantial investments before we can determine their commercial viability. as a result, we may not be successful in developing new products and we may never realize the benefits of our research and development activities. our ability to deliver products and services may be disrupted. an interruption in our business due to acts such as natural disasters, fires, explosions, or issues with the supply chain may cause us to temporarily be unable to deliver products or services to our customers. it may be expensive to resolve these issues, even though we hold certain insurance. more importantly, customers may switch to competitors and may not return to us even if we resolve the interruption. a prolonged downturn or additional consolidation in the pharmaceutical, food, food retailing and chemicals industries could adversely affect our operating results. our products are used extensively in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage and chemical industries. consolidation in the pharmaceutical and chemicals industries hurt our sales in prior years. a prolonged downturn or additional consolidation in any of these industries could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, the capital spending policies of our customers in these industries are based on a variety of factors we cannot control, including the resources available for purchasing equipment, the spending priorities among various types of equipment and policies regarding capital expenditures. any decrease or delay in capital spending by our customers would cause our revenues to decline and could harm our profitability. we may face risks associated with future acquisitions. we may pursue acquisitions of complementary product lines, technologies or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired operations, technologies and products; diversion of management attention from other business concerns; and potential departures of key employees of the acquired company. if we successfully identify acquisitions in the future, completing such acquisitions may result in: new issuances of our stock that may be dilutive to current owners; increases in our debt and contingent liabilities; and additional amortization expenses related to intangible assets. any of these acquisition-related risks could have a material adverse affect on our profitability. larger companies have identified life sciences and instruments as businesses they will consider entering, which could change the competitive dynamics of these markets. in addition, we may not be able to identify, successfully complete or integrate potential acquisitions in the future. however, even if we can do so, we cannot be sure that these acquisitions will have a positive impact on our business or operating results. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights, or if we infringe or misappropriate the proprietary rights of others, our operating results could be harmed. our success depends on our ability to obtain and enforce patents on our technology and to protect our trade secrets. our patents may not provide complete protection, and competitors may develop similar products that are not covered by our patents. our patents may also be challenged by third parties and invalidated or narrowed. although we take measures to protect confidential information, improper use or disclosure of our trade secrets may still occur. 12 table of contents we may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. the cost of any litigation could affect our profitability regardless of the outcome, and management attention could be diverted. if we are unsuccessful in such litigation, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing activity and/or obtain a license. if we fail to obtain a required license, we may be unable to sell some of our products, which could result in a decline in our revenues. departures of key employees could impair our operations. we have employment contracts with each of our key employees. in addition, our key employees own shares of our common stock and/or have options to purchase additional shares. nevertheless, such individuals could leave the company. if any key employees stopped working for us, our operations could be harmed. we have no key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our senior executives. we may be adversely affected by environmental laws and regulations. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to: air emissions; wastewater discharges; the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. we incur expenditures in complying with environmental laws and regulations. we are currently involved in, or have potential liability with respect to, the remediation of past contamination in various facilities. in addition, some of our facilities are or have been in operation for many decades and may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are hazardous or may be considered hazardous in the future. these sites and disposal sites owned by others to which we sent waste may in the future be identified as contaminated and require remediation. accordingly, it is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that may harm our results of operations or financial condition. we may be adversely affected by failure to comply with regulations of governmental agencies. our products are subject to regulation by governmental agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of activities relating to our products, from design and development, to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with these regulations, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution. in addition, we could be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. we may experience impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets. as of december 31, 2006, our consolidated balance sheet included goodwill of $432.9 million and other intangible assets of $102.8 million. our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment expense that we will incur. the determination of the value of such intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. in accordance with sfas no. 142, goodwill and other intangible assets ( sfas 142 ), our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. the evaluation is based on valuation models that estimate fair value based on expected future cash flows and profitability projections. in preparing the valuation models we consider a number of factors, including operating results, business plans, economic conditions, future cash flows, and transactions and market place data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in applying them to the impairment analyses. the significant estimates and assumptions within our fair value models include sales growth, controllable cost growth, perpetual growth, effective tax rates and discount rates. our assessments to date have indicated that there has been no impairment of these assets. 13 table of contents should any of these estimates or assumptions change, or should we incur lower than expected operating performance or cash flows, we may experience a triggering event that requires a new fair value assessment for our reporting units, possibly prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and resulting analysis could result in impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets if the fair value estimate declines below the carrying value. our amortization expense related to intangible assets with finite lives may materially change should our estimates of their useful lives change. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could impact our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and various other foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to allocation of expenses among different jurisdictions. our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by: changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction; changes in tax laws or tax rates; changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities; and material adjustments from tax audits. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the u.s., is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in the u.s. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. currency fluctuations may affect our operating profits. because we conduct operations in many countries, our operating income can be significantly affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. swiss franc-denominated expenses represent a much greater percentage of our operating expenses than swiss franc-denominated sales represent of our net sales. in part, this is because most of our manufacturing costs in switzerland relate to products that are sold outside switzerland. moreover, a substantial percentage of our research and development expenses and general and administrative expenses are incurred in switzerland. therefore, if the swiss franc strengthens against all or most of our major trading currencies (e.g . , the u.s. dollar, the euro, other major european currencies and the japanese yen), our operating profit is reduced. we also have significantly more sales in european currencies (other than the swiss franc) than we have expenses in those currencies. therefore, when european currencies weaken against the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc, it also decreases our operating profits. accordingly, the swiss franc exchange rate to the euro is an important cross-rate monitored by the company. we estimate that a 1% strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro would result in a decrease in our earnings before tax of approximately $1.0 million on an annual basis. in addition to the effects of exchange rate movements on operating profits, our debt levels can fluctuate due to changes in exchange rates, particularly between the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc. based on our outstanding debt at december 31, 2006, we estimate that a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against the currencies in which our debt is denominated would result in an increase of approximately $22.9 million in the reported u.s. dollar value of the debt. we have substantial debt and we may incur substantially more debt, which could affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities. we have substantial debt and we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. as of december 31, 2006, we had total indebtedness of approximately $204.4 million, net of cash of $151.3 million. we are also permitted by the terms of our debt instruments to incur substantial additional indebtedness, subject to the restrictions therein. our debt could have important consequences. for example, it could: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt instruments; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development and other corporate requirements; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in raw material costs; 14 table of contents limit our ability to respond to business opportunities; limit our ability to borrow additional funds, which may be necessary; and subject us to financial and other restrictive covenants, which, if we fail to comply with these covenants and our failure is not waived or cured, could result in an event of default under our debt. the agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. the indenture governing our senior notes and the agreements governing our credit facility contain covenants imposing various restrictions on our business. these restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. the restrictions these covenants place on us include limitations on our ability to: enter into sale and leaseback arrangements; incur liens; and consolidate, merge, sell or lease all or substantially all of our assets. our credit facility also requires us to meet certain financial ratios. our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions, and are subject to the risks in this section. the breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the indenture governing the senior notes and/or under our credit facility. an event of default under our credit facility would permit our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be immediately due and payable. acceleration of our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable to make interest payments on the senior notes and repay the principal amount of the senior notes. our ability to generate cash depends on factors beyond our control. our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. this, to an extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, including those described in this section, that are beyond our control. we cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, or to fund our other liquidity needs. we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. we cannot ensure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and the senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. ceo and cfo certifications our ceo submits an annual written affirmation to the new york stock exchange (nyse) certifying the company compliance with nyse listing rules. the most recent annual affirmation was submitted in 2006. our ceo and cfo also provide certifications pursuant to section 302 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 in connection with our quarterly and annual financial statement filings with the securities and exchange commission. the certifications relating to this annual report are attached as exhibits 31.1 and 31.2. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk discussion of this item is included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 11 risk factors factors affecting our future operating results we are subject to certain risks associated with our international operations and fluctuating conditions in emerging markets. we conduct business in many countries, including emerging markets in asia, latin america and eastern europe, and these operations represent a significant portion of our sales and earnings. for example, our chinese operations account for $168.3 million of sales to external customers and $57.5 million of segment profit. in addition to the currency risks discussed below, international operations pose other substantial risks and problems for us. for instance, various local jurisdictions in which we operate may revise or alter their respective legal and regulatory requirements. in addition, we may encounter one or more of the following obstacles or risks: tariffs and trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and/or mandatory salary increases for local employees; credit risks arising from financial difficulties facing local customers and distributors; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; nationalization of private enterprises may result in the confiscation of assets as we hold significant assets around the world in the form of property, plant and equipment, inventory and accounts receivable, as well as $58.1 million of cash at december 31, 2007 in our chinese subsidiaries; restrictions on investments and/or limitations regarding foreign ownership; adverse tax consequences, including tax disputes, imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; and other uncertain local economic, political and social conditions, including hyper-inflationary conditions or periods of low or no productivity growth. we must also comply with a variety of regulations regarding the conversion and repatriation of funds earned in local currencies. for example, converting earnings from our operations in china into other currencies and repatriating these funds require governmental approvals. if we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in utilizing cash flow generated by these operations outside of china. economic conditions in emerging markets have from time to time deteriorated significantly, and some emerging markets are experiencing recessionary trends, severe currency devaluations and inflationary prices. moreover, economic problems in individual markets can spread to other economies, adding to the adverse conditions we may face in emerging markets. we remain committed to emerging markets, particularly those in asia, latin america and eastern europe. however, we expect the fluctuating economic conditions will affect our results of operations in these markets for the foreseeable future. the majority of our business is derived from companies in developed countries. economic downturns or recessions in these countries would likely adversely affect our operating results. although the percentage of our sales coming from emerging markets is growing, the majority of our business is still derived from companies in developed countries. because our customers often decrease or delay capital expenditures in difficult economic times, economic downturns or recessions in developed countries would likely adversely affect our operating results. customers may also purchase lower-cost products made by competitors and not resume purchasing our products even after economic conditions improve. these conditions would reduce our revenues and profitability. 11 table of contents we operate in highly competitive markets, and it may be difficult to preserve operating margins, gain market share and maintain a technological advantage. our markets are highly competitive. many of the markets in which we compete are fragmented both geographically and by application, particularly the industrial and food retailing markets. as a result, we face numerous regional or specialized competitors, many of which are well established in their markets. in addition, some of our competitors are divisions of larger companies with potentially greater financial and other resources than our company. some of our competitors are domiciled or operate in emerging markets and may have a lower cost structure than ours. we are confronted with new competitors in emerging markets, who although relatively small in size today, could become larger companies in their home markets. given the sometimes significant growth rates of these emerging markets, and in light of their cost advantage over developed markets, emerging market competitors could become more significant global competitors. taken together, the competitive forces present in our markets can impair our operating margins in certain product lines and geographic markets. we expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive prices. although we believe that we have certain technological and other advantages over our competitors, we may not be able to realize and maintain these advantages. our product development efforts may not produce commercially viable products in a timely manner. we must introduce new products and enhancements in a timely manner, or our products could become technologically obsolete over time, which would harm our operating results. to remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development, sales and marketing and customer service and support. we cannot be sure that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments. in developing new products, we may be required to make substantial investments before we can determine their commercial viability. as a result, we may not be successful in developing new products and we may never realize the benefits of our research and development activities. our ability to deliver products and services may be disrupted. an interruption in our business due to events such as natural disasters, pandemics or other health crises, fires, explosions or issues with the supply chain may cause us to temporarily be unable to deliver products or services to our customers. it may be expensive to resolve these issues, even though some of these risks are covered by insurance policies. more importantly, customers may switch to competitors and may not return to us even if we resolve the interruption. a prolonged downturn or additional consolidation in the pharmaceutical, food, food retailing and chemicals industries could adversely affect our operating results. our products are used extensively in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage and chemical industries. consolidation in the pharmaceutical and chemicals industries hurt our sales in prior years. a prolonged downturn or additional consolidation in any of these industries could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, the capital spending policies of our customers in these industries are based on a variety of factors we cannot control, including the resources available for purchasing equipment, the spending priorities among various types of equipment and policies regarding capital expenditures. any decrease or delay in capital spending by our customers would cause our revenues to decline and could harm our profitability. we may face risks associated with future acquisitions. we may pursue acquisitions of complementary product lines, technologies or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired operations, technologies and products; diversion of management attention from other business concerns; and potential departures of key employees of the acquired company. if we successfully identify acquisitions in the future, completing such acquisitions may result in new issuances of our stock that may be dilutive to current owners, increases in our 12 table of contents debt and contingent liabilities and additional amortization expenses related to intangible assets. any of these acquisition-related risks could have a material adverse affect on our profitability. larger companies have identified life sciences and instruments as businesses they will consider entering, which could change the competitive dynamics of these markets. in addition, we may not be able to identify, successfully complete or integrate potential acquisitions in the future. however, even if we can do so, we cannot be sure that these acquisitions will have a positive impact on our business or operating results. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights, or if we infringe or misappropriate the proprietary rights of others, our operating results could be harmed. our success depends on our ability to obtain and enforce patents on our technology, maintain our trademarks and protect our trade secrets. our patents may not provide complete protection, and competitors may develop similar products that are not covered by our patents. our patents may also be challenged by third parties and invalidated or narrowed. competitors sometimes seek to take advantage of our trademarks or brands in ways that may create customer confusion or weaken our brand. although we take measures to protect confidential information, improper use or disclosure of our trade secrets may still occur. we may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. the cost of any litigation could affect our profitability regardless of the outcome, and management attention could be diverted. if we are unsuccessful in such litigation, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing activity and/or obtain a license. if we fail to obtain a required license, we may be unable to sell some of our products, which could result in a decline in our revenues. departures of key employees could impair our operations. we generally have employment contracts with each of our key employees. our executive officers own shares of our common stock and/or have options to purchase additional shares. nevertheless, such individuals could leave the company. if any key employees stopped working for us, our operations could be harmed. important r d personnel may leave and join competitors, which could substantially delay or hinder ongoing development projects. we have no key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our senior executives. we may be adversely affected by environmental laws and regulations. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. we incur expenditures in complying with environmental laws and regulations. we are currently involved in, or have potential liability with respect to, the remediation of past contamination in various facilities. in addition, some of our facilities are or have been in operation for many decades and may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are hazardous or may be considered hazardous in the future. these sites and disposal sites owned by others to which we sent waste may in the future be identified as contaminated and require remediation. accordingly, it is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that may harm our results of operations or financial condition. we may be adversely affected by failure to comply with regulations of governmental agencies or by the adoption of new regulations. our products are subject to regulation by governmental agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of activities relating to our products, from design and development, to product safety, labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with these regulations, or if new regulations are adopted that substantially change existing practice or impose new burdens, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution. in addition, we could be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. 13 table of contents we may experience impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets. as of december 31, 2007, our consolidated balance sheet included goodwill of $440.8 million and other intangible assets of $100.0 million. our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment expense that we might incur. the determination of the value of such intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. in accordance with sfas no. 142, goodwill and other intangible assets ( sfas 142 ), our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. the evaluation is based on valuation models that estimate fair value based on expected future cash flows and profitability projections. in preparing the valuation models we consider a number of factors, including operating results, business plans, economic conditions, future cash flows, and transactions and market place data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in applying them to the impairment analyses. the significant estimates and assumptions within our fair value models include sales growth, controllable cost growth, perpetual growth, effective tax rates and discount rates. our assessments to date have indicated that there has been no impairment of these assets. should any of these estimates or assumptions change, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, we may experience a triggering event that requires a new fair value assessment for our reporting units, possibly prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and resulting analysis could result in impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets if the fair value estimate declines below the carrying value. our amortization expense related to intangible assets with finite lives may materially change should our estimates of their useful lives change. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could impact our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and various other foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to allocation of expenses among different jurisdictions. our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by: changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction, changes in tax laws or tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and material adjustments from tax audits. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the u.s., is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in the u.s. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. currency fluctuations affect our operating profits. because we conduct operations in many countries, our operating income can be significantly affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. swiss franc-denominated expenses represent a much greater percentage of our total operating expenses than swiss franc-denominated sales represent of our total net sales. in part, this is because most of our manufacturing costs in switzerland relate to products that are sold outside switzerland. moreover, a substantial percentage of our research and development expenses and general and administrative expenses are incurred in switzerland. therefore, if the swiss franc strengthens against all or most of our major trading currencies (e.g . , the u.s. dollar, the euro, other major european currencies, the chinese yuan and the japanese yen), our operating profit is reduced. we also have significantly more sales in european currencies (other than the swiss franc) than we have expenses in those currencies. therefore, when european currencies weaken against the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc, it also decreases our operating profits. accordingly, the swiss franc exchange rate to the euro is an important 14 table of contents cross-rate monitored by the company. we estimate that a 1% strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro would result in a decrease in our earnings before tax of approximately $1.1 million on an annual basis. in addition to the effects of exchange rate movements on operating profits, our debt levels can fluctuate due to changes in exchange rates, particularly between the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc. based on our outstanding debt at december 31, 2007, we estimate that a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against the currencies in which our debt is denominated would result in an increase of approximately $12.4 million in the reported u.s. dollar value of the debt. we have substantial debt and we may incur substantially more debt, which could affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities. we have substantial debt and we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. as of december 31, 2007, we had total indebtedness of approximately $315.4 million, net of cash of $81.2 million. we are also permitted by the terms of our debt instruments to incur substantial additional indebtedness, subject to the restrictions therein. our debt could have important consequences. for example, it could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt instruments; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development and other corporate requirements; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in raw material costs; limit our ability to respond to business opportunities; limit our ability to borrow additional funds, which may be necessary; and subject us to financial and other restrictive covenants, which, if we fail to comply with these covenants and our failure is not waived or cured, could result in an event of default under our debt. the agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. the indenture governing our senior notes and the agreements governing our credit facility contain covenants imposing various restrictions on our business. these restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. the restrictions these covenants place on us include limitations on our ability to enter into sale and leaseback arrangements; incur liens; and consolidate, merge, sell or lease all or substantially all of our assets. our credit facility also requires us to meet certain financial ratios. our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions, and are subject to the risks in this section. the breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the indenture governing the senior notes and/or under our credit facility. an event of default under our credit facility would permit our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be immediately due and payable. acceleration of our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable to make interest payments on the senior notes and repay the principal amount of the senior notes. our ability to generate cash depends on factors beyond our control. our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. this, to an extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, including those described in this section, that are beyond our control. we cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. we cannot ensure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and the senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 15 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk discussion of this item is included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 12 risk factors factors affecting our future operating results the majority of our business is derived from companies in developed countries. the current economic downturns or recessions in these countries can be expected to adversely affect our operating results. although the percentage of our sales coming from emerging markets is growing, the majority of our business is still derived from companies in developed countries. because our customers often decrease or delay capital expenditures in difficult economic times, economic downturns or recessions in developed countries would likely adversely affect our operating results. given the current economic uncertainty, we are starting to see both decreases and delays in customer expenditures, and we expect these to continue and possibly worsen. customers may also purchase lower-cost products made by competitors and not resume purchasing our products even after economic conditions improve. these conditions would reduce our revenues and profitability. we are subject to certain risks associated with our international operations and fluctuating conditions in emerging markets. we conduct business in many countries, including emerging markets in asia, latin america and eastern europe, and these operations represent a significant portion of our sales and earnings. for example, our chinese operations account for $228.9 million of sales to external customers and $59.0 million of segment profit. in addition to the currency risks discussed below, international operations pose other substantial risks and problems for us. for instance, various local jurisdictions in which we operate may revise or alter their respective legal and regulatory requirements. in addition, we may encounter one or more of the following obstacles or risks: tariffs and trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and/or mandatory salary increases for local employees; credit risks arising from financial difficulties facing local customers and distributors; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; nationalization of private enterprises may result in the confiscation of assets as we hold significant assets around the world in the form of property, plant and equipment, inventory and accounts receivable, as well as $52.9 million of cash at december 31, 2008 in our chinese subsidiaries; restrictions on investments and/or limitations regarding foreign ownership; adverse tax consequences, including tax disputes, imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; and other uncertain local economic, political and social conditions, including hyper-inflationary conditions or periods of low or no productivity growth. we must also comply with a variety of regulations regarding the conversion and repatriation of funds earned in local currencies. for example, converting earnings from our operations in china into other currencies and repatriating these funds require governmental approvals. if we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in utilizing cash flow generated by these operations outside of china. economic conditions in emerging markets have from time to time deteriorated significantly, and some emerging markets are currently experiencing recessionary trends, severe currency devaluations and inflationary prices. moreover, economic problems in individual markets can spread to other economies, adding to the adverse conditions we may face in emerging markets. even where economies are currently growing, such as china, we are already seeing significant slowdowns compared with historical growth rates, and believe economic conditions in these markets will decline further. we remain committed to emerging markets, 12 table of contents particularly those in asia, latin america and eastern europe. however, we expect the fluctuating economic conditions will affect our results of operations in these markets for the foreseeable future. we operate in highly competitive markets, and it may be difficult to preserve operating margins, gain market share and maintain a technological advantage. our markets are highly competitive. many of the markets in which we compete are fragmented both geographically and by application, particularly the industrial and food retailing markets. as a result, we face numerous regional or specialized competitors, many of which are well established in their markets. in addition, some of our competitors are divisions of larger companies with potentially greater financial and other resources than our company. some of our competitors are domiciled or operate in emerging markets and may have a lower cost structure than ours. we are confronted with new competitors in emerging markets who, although relatively small in size today, could become larger companies in their home markets. given the sometimes significant growth rates of these emerging markets, and in light of their cost advantage over developed markets, emerging market competitors could become more significant global competitors. taken together, the competitive forces present in our markets can impair our operating margins in certain product lines and geographic markets. we expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive prices. although we believe that we have certain technological and other advantages over our competitors, we may not be able to realize and maintain these advantages. our product development efforts may not produce commercially viable products in a timely manner. we must introduce new products and enhancements in a timely manner, or our products could become technologically obsolete over time, which would harm our operating results. to remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development, sales and marketing and customer service and support. we cannot be sure that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments. in developing new products, we may be required to make substantial investments before we can determine their commercial viability. as a result, we may not be successful in developing new products and we may never realize the benefits of our research and development activities. our ability to deliver products and services may be disrupted. an interruption in our business due to events such as natural disasters, pandemics or other health crises, fires, explosions or issues with the supply chain may cause us to temporarily be unable to deliver products or services to our customers. it may be expensive to resolve these issues, even though some of these risks are covered by insurance policies. more importantly, customers may switch to competitors and may not return to us even if we resolve the interruption. a widespread outbreak of an illness or other health issue could negatively affect our business, making it more difficult and expensive to meet our obligations to our customers, and could result in reduced demand from our customers. a number of countries in the asia pacific region have experienced outbreaks of sars and/or avian influenza (bird flu) in recent years. as a result of such an outbreak, businesses can be shut down and individuals can become ill or quarantined. outbreaks of infectious diseases such as these, particularly in north america, europe, china or other locations significant to our operations, could adversely affect general commercial activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. if our operations are curtailed because of health issues, we may need to seek alternate sources of supply for services and staff and these alternate sources may be more expensive. alternate sources may not be available or may result in delays in shipments to our customers, each of which would affect our results of operations. in addition, a curtailment of our product design operations could result in delays in the development of new products. further, if our customers businesses are affected by health issues, they might delay or reduce purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 13 table of contents we are vulnerable to system failures, which could harm our business. we rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, support our customers, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make payments. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data or reduced functionality. a significant number of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services, which could harm our reputation and financial condition. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our services as a result of system failures. we also recently initiated our blue ocean program, a program to standardize our global business processes and information technology systems that includes the implementation of a company-wide enterprise resource planning system. the implementation of this program will proceed on a staggered basis over a several-year period with the initial go-live rollouts expected to occur during 2010. if the implementation of any unit is flawed, we could suffer interruptions in operations and customer-facing activities which could harm our reputation and financial condition, lose data, experience reduced functionality or have delays in reporting financial information. it may take us longer to implement the blue ocean program than we have planned for, and the project may cost us more than we have estimated, either of which would negatively impact our ability to generate cost savings or other efficiencies. a prolonged downturn or additional consolidation in the pharmaceutical, food, food retailing and chemical industries could adversely affect our operating results. our products are used extensively in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage and chemical industries. consolidation in the pharmaceutical and chemical industries hurt our sales in prior years. a prolonged economic downturn or additional consolidation in any of these industries could adversely affect our operating results, and some industries are already experiencing significant economic declines such as the chemical industry. in addition, the capital spending policies of our customers in these industries are based on a variety of factors we cannot control, including the resources available for purchasing equipment, the spending priorities among various types of equipment and policies regarding capital expenditures. any decrease or delay in capital spending by our customers would cause our revenues to decline and could harm our profitability. we may face risks associated with future acquisitions. we may pursue acquisitions of complementary product lines, technologies or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired operations, technologies and products; diversion of management attention from other business concerns; and potential departures of key employees of the acquired company. if we successfully identify acquisitions in the future, completing such acquisitions may result in new issuances of our stock that may be dilutive to current owners, increases in our debt and contingent liabilities and additional amortization expenses related to intangible assets. any of these acquisition-related risks could have a material adverse affect on our profitability. larger companies have identified life sciences and instruments as businesses they will consider entering, which could change the competitive dynamics of these markets. in addition, we may not be able to identify, successfully complete or integrate potential acquisitions in the future. however, even if we can do so, we cannot be sure that these acquisitions will have a positive impact on our business or operating results. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights, or if we infringe or misappropriate the proprietary rights of others, our operating results could be harmed. our success depends on our ability to obtain and enforce patents on our technology, maintain our trademarks and protect our trade secrets. our patents may not provide complete protection, and competitors 14 table of contents may develop similar products that are not covered by our patents. our patents may also be challenged by third parties and invalidated or narrowed. competitors sometimes seek to take advantage of our trademarks or brands in ways that may create customer confusion or weaken our brand. although we take measures to protect confidential information, improper use or disclosure of our trade secrets may still occur. we may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. the cost of any litigation could affect our profitability regardless of the outcome, and management attention could be diverted. if we are unsuccessful in such litigation, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing activity and/or obtain a license. if we fail to obtain a required license, we may be unable to sell some of our products, which could result in a decline in our revenues. departures of key employees could impair our operations. we generally have employment contracts with each of our key employees. our executive officers own shares of our common stock and/or have options to purchase additional shares. nevertheless, such individuals could leave the company. if any key employees stopped working for us, our operations could be harmed. important r d personnel may leave and join competitors, which could substantially delay or hinder ongoing development projects. we have no key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our senior executives. we may be adversely affected by environmental laws and regulations. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. we incur expenditures in complying with environmental laws and regulations. we are currently involved in, or have potential liability with respect to, the remediation of past contamination in various facilities. in addition, some of our facilities are or have been in operation for many decades and may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are hazardous or may be considered hazardous in the future. these sites and disposal sites owned by others to which we sent waste may in the future be identified as contaminated and require remediation. accordingly, it is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that may harm our results of operations or financial condition. we may be adversely affected by failure to comply with regulations of governmental agencies or by the adoption of new regulations. our products are subject to regulation by governmental agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of activities relating to our products, from design and development, to product safety, labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with these regulations, or if new regulations are adopted that substantially change existing practice or impose new burdens, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution. in addition, we could be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. we may experience impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets. as of december 31, 2008, our consolidated balance sheet included goodwill of $424.4 million and other intangible assets of $96.3 million. our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment expense that we might incur. the determination of the value of such intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. in accordance with sfas no. 142, goodwill and other intangible assets ( sfas 142 ), our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. 15 table of contents the evaluation is based on valuation models that estimate fair value based on expected future cash flows and profitability projections. in preparing the valuation models we consider a number of factors, including operating results, business plans, economic conditions, future cash flows, and transactions and market place data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in applying them to the impairment analyses. the significant estimates and assumptions within our fair value models include sales growth, controllable cost growth, perpetual growth, effective tax rates and discount rates. our assessments to date have indicated that there has been no impairment of these assets. should any of these estimates or assumptions change, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, including from a prolonged economic slowdown, we may experience a triggering event that requires a new fair value assessment for our reporting units, possibly prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and resulting analysis could result in impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets if the fair value estimate declines below the carrying value. our amortization expense related to intangible assets with finite lives may materially change should our estimates of their useful lives change. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could impact our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and various other foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to allocation of expenses among different jurisdictions. our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction, changes in tax laws or tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and material adjustments from tax audits. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the u.s., is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in the u.s. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. currency fluctuations affect our operating profits. because we conduct operations in many countries, our operating income can be significantly affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. swiss franc-denominated expenses represent a much greater percentage of our total operating expenses than swiss franc-denominated sales represent of our total net sales. in part, this is because most of our manufacturing costs in switzerland relate to products that are sold outside switzerland. moreover, a substantial percentage of our research and development expenses and general and administrative expenses are incurred in switzerland. therefore, if the swiss franc strengthens against all or most of our major trading currencies (e.g . , the u.s. dollar, the euro, other major european currencies, the chinese yuan and the japanese yen), our operating profit is reduced. we also have significantly more sales in european currencies (other than the swiss franc) than we have expenses in those currencies. therefore, when european currencies weaken against the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc, it also decreases our operating profits. accordingly, the swiss franc exchange rate to the euro is an important cross-rate monitored by the company. in recent months, we have seen substantially higher volatility in exchange rates generally than in the past, and the swiss franc has strengthened significantly against the euro. we estimate that a 1% strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro would result in a decrease in our earnings before tax of $1.0 million to $1.4 million on an annual basis. in addition to the swiss franc and major european currencies, we also conduct business in many geographies throughout the world, including asia pacific, eastern europe, latin america and canada. fluctuations in these currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar can also affect our operating results. in addition to the effects of exchange rate movements on operating profits, our debt levels can fluctuate due to changes in exchange rates, particularly between the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc. based on our outstanding debt at december 31, 2008, we estimate that a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against the currencies in which our debt is denominated would result in an increase of approximately $5.0 million in the reported u.s. dollar value of the debt. 16 table of contents we have substantial debt and we may incur substantially more debt, which could affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities. we have substantial debt and we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. as of december 31, 2008, we had total indebtedness of approximately $376.0 million, net of cash of $78.1 million. we are also permitted by the terms of our debt instruments to incur substantial additional indebtedness, subject to the restrictions therein. our debt could have important consequences. for example, it could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt instruments; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development and other corporate requirements; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in raw material costs; limit our ability to respond to business opportunities; limit our ability to borrow additional funds, which may be necessary; and subject us to financial and other restrictive covenants, which, if we fail to comply with these covenants and our failure is not waived or cured, could result in an event of default under our debt. in the current difficult environment, banks can be expected to strictly enforce the terms of our credit agreement. although we believe we are currently in compliance with all credit agreement requirements, if we fail to comply in the future with a requirement, our access to the facility and ability to borrow further may be limited. in such circumstances, we may not be able to refinance our existing debt or only be able to do so at significantly higher costs. the agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. the indenture governing our senior notes and the agreements governing our credit facility contain covenants imposing various restrictions on our business. these restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. the restrictions these covenants place on us include limitations on our ability to incur liens and consolidate, merge, sell or lease all or substantially all of our assets. our credit facility also requires us to meet certain financial ratios. our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions, and are subject to the risks in this section. the breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the indenture governing the senior notes and/or under our credit facility. an event of default under our credit facility would permit our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be immediately due and payable. acceleration of our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable to make interest payments on the senior notes and repay the principal amount of the senior notes. we make from time to time forward-looking statements, and actual events or results may differ materially from these statements because assumptions we have made prove incorrect due to market conditions in our industries or other factors . we from time to time provide forward-looking statements both in our filings with the sec and orally in connection with our quarterly earnings calls, including guidance on anticipated earnings per share. these statements are only predictions. actual events or results may differ materially from these statements because assumptions we have made prove incorrect due to market conditions in our industries or other factors. we refer you to the factors discussed under the captions factors affecting our future operating results in the business section and the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations section of this annual report on form 10-k, which describe risks and factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in those forward-looking statements. we operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. management cannot predict these new risk factors, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of these new risk factors on our businesses or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ 17 table of contents materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. in providing guidance on our future earnings, our management evaluates our budgets, our strategic plan and certain factors relating to our business. this evaluation requires management to make several key assumptions relating to both external and internal factors. some of the key external assumptions include: the outlook for our end markets and the global economy; impact of external factors on our competition; economies in emerging markets will slow from the growth we had in 2008; financial position of our customers; the estimated costs of purchasing materials; developments in personnel costs; and rates for currency exchange, particularly between the swiss franc and the euro. some of these assumptions may prove to be incorrect over time. for example, although no one customer accounts for more than 1% of our revenues, if a number of our customers experienced significant deteriorations in their financial positions concurrently, it could have an impact on our results of operations. some of our key internal assumptions include the following: our ability to implement our business strategy; effectiveness of our marketing programs such as our spinnaker initiatives; our ability to develop and deliver innovative products and services; continued growth in our sales in emerging markets; our ability to implement price increases as forecasted; and the effectiveness of our cost saving initiatives, including our restructuring activities. these internal assumptions may also prove to be incorrect over time. for example, with respect to our ability to realize our planned price increases without disturbing our customer base in core markets, in certain markets, such as emerging markets, price tends to be a more significant factor in customers decisions to purchase our products. furthermore, we can have no assurance that our cost reduction programs will be effective or that we will be able to execute them in the estimated time frames. additionally, although we have included certain restructuring costs in our forecast, it may become necessary to take additional restructuring actions resulting in additional restructuring costs. we believe our current assumptions are reasonable and prudent for planning purposes. however, should any of these assumptions prove to be incorrect, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, we may experience results different than our projections. our ability to generate cash depends on factors beyond our control. our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. this, to an extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, including those described in this section, that are beyond our control. we cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. we cannot ensure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and the senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 18 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk discussion of this item is included in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk......39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk discussion of this item is on page 37 of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 13 risk factors factors affecting our future operating results the majority of our business is derived from companies in developed countries. continued economic uncertainty in these countries may adversely affect our operating results. although the percentage of our sales coming from emerging markets is growing, the majority of our business is still derived from companies in developed countries. economic instability in many parts of the world, including the potential for a sovereign debt crisis in the european union and the united states, continues to be a situation that we are monitoring closely. concerns regarding this potential financial crisis on financial institutions globally would likely have an adverse effect on the global capital markets. more specifically, an escalation of the european debt crisis could have the following adverse effects: a substantial drop in demand for our products because of the basic inability of companies to complete commercial transactions severe limits on the ability of our company, our customers, suppliers and lenders to finance their respective businesses unavailability of liquidity at acceptable financing costs, if at all the inability to obtain materials and supplies potential devaluation and/or impairment of assets increased accounts receivable write-offs difficulty in collecting accounts receivables potential disputes about the currency of payment under various contractual arrangements for the purchases and sales of goods and services increased foreign exchange rate volatility that could result in unexpected changes in profitability and cash flow because our customers often decrease or delay capital expenditures in uncertain or difficult economic times, economic downturns or recessions in developed countries adversely affect our operating results. customers may also purchase lower-cost products made by competitors and not resume purchasing our products even after economic conditions improve. these conditions would reduce our revenues and profitability. concerns regarding the european debt crisis and market perception concerning the instability of the euro could affect our operating profits. we conduct business in many countries that use the euro as their currency (the eurozone). concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations, the overall stability of the euro, and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual eurozone countries. these concerns could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more eurozone countries, or in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely. should the euro dissolve entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in affect at such time. these potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations. in addition, concerns over the effect of this financial crisis on financial institutions in europe and globally could have an adverse affect on the global capital markets, and more specifically 13 table of contents on the ability of our company, our customers, suppliers and lenders to finance their respective businesses, to access liquidity at acceptable financing costs, if at all, on the availability of supplies and materials and on the demand for our products. we are subject to certain risks associated with our international operations and fluctuating conditions in emerging markets. we conduct business in many countries, including emerging markets in asia, latin america and eastern europe, and these operations represent a significant portion of our sales and earnings. for example, our chinese operations account for $388.6 million of sales to external customers, approximately 30% of our global production, and $120.9 million of segment profit during 2011 . in addition to the currency risks discussed below, international operations pose other substantial risks and problems for us. for instance, various local jurisdictions in which we operate may revise or alter their respective legal and regulatory requirements. in addition, we may encounter one or more of the following obstacles or risks: tariffs and trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and/or mandatory salary increases for local employees; credit risks arising from financial difficulties facing local customers and distributors; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; nationalization of private enterprises which may result in the confiscation of assets as we hold significant assets around the world in the form of property, plant and equipment, inventory and accounts receivable, as well as $68.4 million of cash at december 31, 2011 in our chinese subsidiaries; restrictions on investments and/or limitations regarding foreign ownership; adverse tax consequences, including tax disputes, imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; and other uncertain local economic, political and social conditions, including hyper-inflationary conditions or periods of low or no productivity growth. we must also comply with a variety of regulations regarding the conversion and repatriation of funds earned in local currencies. for example, converting earnings from our operations in china into other currencies and repatriating these funds require governmental approvals. if we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in utilizing cash flow generated by these operations outside of china. while business activity in emerging markets improved during 2011 , fluctuating economic conditions may continue to affect our results of operations in these markets for the foreseeable future. certain emerging markets have also experienced currency devaluations and inflationary prices. economic problems in individual markets can also spread to other economies, adding to the adverse conditions we may face in emerging markets. we remain committed to emerging markets, particularly those in asia, latin america and eastern europe. however, fluctuating economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations in these markets. we operate in highly competitive markets, and it may be difficult to preserve operating margins, gain market share and maintain a technological advantage. our markets are highly competitive. many of the markets in which we compete are fragmented both geographically and by application, particularly the industrial and food retailing markets. as a result, we 14 table of contents face numerous regional or specialized competitors, many of which are well established in their markets. in addition, some of our competitors are divisions of larger companies with potentially greater financial and other resources than our own. some of our competitors are domiciled or operate in emerging markets and may have a lower cost structure than ours. we are confronted with new competitors in emerging markets who, although relatively small in size today, could become larger companies in their home markets. given the sometimes significant growth rates of these emerging markets, and in light of their cost advantage over developed markets, emerging market competitors could become more significant global competitors. taken together, the competitive forces present in our markets can impair our operating margins in certain product lines and geographic markets. we expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive prices. although we believe that we have certain technological and other advantages over our competitors, we may not be able to realize and maintain these advantages. we are vulnerable to system failures, including those that may be related to cyber security attacks, which could harm our business. we rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, support our customers, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make payments. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data or reduced functionality. a significant number of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, which could harm our reputation and financial condition. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our services as a result of system failures. we also are in the process of implementing our blue ocean program, a program to globalize our business processes and information technology systems that includes the implementation of a company-wide enterprise resource planning system. the implementation of this program will proceed on a staggered basis over a multi year period with the initial go-live rollout having occurred in 2010. we have implemented the blue ocean program in our swiss and chinese operations and now have approximately one-third of the program completed as measured in users. we expect to implement germany and the united states over the next two years and will then have more than half of the company's users on the system. if the implementation of any unit is flawed, we could suffer interruptions in operations and customer-facing activities which could harm our reputation and financial condition, or cause us to lose data, experience reduced functionality or have delays in reporting financial information. it may take us longer to implement the blue ocean program than we have planned, and the project may cost us more than we have estimated, either of which would negatively impact our ability to generate cost savings or other efficiencies. in addition, the implementation of blue ocean will increase our reliance on a single information technology system which would have greater consequences should we experience a system disruption. our ability to deliver products and services may be disrupted. an interruption in our business due to events such as disruptions with our supply chain, natural disasters, pandemics or other health crises, fires or explosions may cause us to temporarily be unable to deliver products or services to our customers. it may be expensive to resolve these issues, even though some of these risks are covered by insurance policies. more importantly, customers may switch to competitors and may not return to us even if we resolve the interruption. 15 table of contents our product development efforts may not produce commercially viable products in a timely manner. we must introduce new products and enhancements in a timely manner, or our products could become technologically obsolete over time, which would harm our operating results. to remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development, sales and marketing and customer service and support. we cannot be sure that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments. in developing new products, we may be required to make substantial investments before we can determine their commercial viability. as a result, we may not be successful in developing new products and we may never realize the benefits of our research and development activities. a widespread outbreak of an illness or other health issue could negatively affect our business, making it more difficult and expensive to meet our obligations to our customers, and could result in reduced demand from our customers. in recent years, a number of countries have experienced outbreaks of the h1n1 influenza (swine flu) or, in the asia pacific region, outbreaks of sars and/or avian influenza (bird flu). despite the implementation of certain precautions, we are susceptible to such outbreaks. as a result of such outbreaks, businesses can be shut down and individuals can become ill or quarantined. outbreaks of infectious diseases such as these, particularly in north america, europe, china or other locations significant to our operations, could adversely affect general commercial activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. if our operations are curtailed because of health issues, we may need to seek alternate sources of supply for services and staff and these alternate sources may be more expensive. alternate sources may not be available or may result in delays in shipments to our customers, each of which would affect our results of operations. in addition, a curtailment of our product design operations could result in delays in the development of new products. further, if our customers' businesses are affected by health issues, they might delay or reduce purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. a prolonged downturn or additional consolidation in the pharmaceutical, food, food retailing and chemical industries could adversely affect our operating results. our products are used extensively in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage and chemical industries. consolidation in the pharmaceutical and chemical industries hurt our sales in prior years. a prolonged economic downturn or additional consolidation in any of these industries could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, the capital spending policies of our customers in these industries are based on a variety of factors we cannot control, including the resources available for purchasing equipment, the spending priorities among various types of equipment and policies regarding capital expenditures. any decrease or delay in capital spending by our customers would cause our revenues to decline and could harm our profitability. we may face risks associated with future acquisitions. we may pursue acquisitions of complementary product lines, technologies or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired operations, technologies and products; diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and potential departures of key employees of the acquired company. if we successfully identify acquisitions in the future, completing such acquisitions may result in new issuances of our stock that may be dilutive to current owners, increases in our debt and contingent liabilities and additional amortization expense related to intangible assets. any of these acquisition-related risks could have a material adverse effect on our 16 table of contents profitability. larger companies have identified life sciences and instruments as businesses they will consider entering, which could change the competitive dynamics of these markets. in addition, we may not be able to identify, successfully complete or integrate potential acquisitions in the future. however, even if we can do so, we cannot be sure that these acquisitions will have a positive impact on our business or operating results. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights, or if we infringe or misappropriate the proprietary rights of others, our operating results could be harmed. our success depends on our ability to obtain and enforce patents on our technology, maintain our trademarks and protect our trade secrets. our patents may not provide complete protection, and competitors may develop similar products that are not covered by our patents. our patents may also be challenged by third parties and invalidated or narrowed. competitors sometimes seek to take advantage of our trademarks or brands in ways that may create customer confusion or weaken our brand. although we take measures to protect confidential information, improper use or disclosure of our trade secrets may still occur. we may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. the cost of any litigation could affect our profitability regardless of the outcome, and management attention could be diverted. if we are unsuccessful in such litigation, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing activity and/or obtain a license. if we fail to obtain a required license, we may be unable to sell some of our products, which could result in a decline in our revenues. departures of key employees could impair our operations. we generally have employment contracts with each of our key employees. our executive officers own shares of our common stock and/or have options to purchase additional shares. nevertheless, such individuals could leave the company. if any key employees stopped working for us, our operations could be harmed. important r&amp;d personnel may leave and join competitors, which could substantially delay or hinder ongoing development projects. we have no key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our senior executives. we may be adversely affected by environmental laws and regulations. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. we incur expenditures in complying with environmental laws and regulations. we are currently involved in, or have potential liability with respect to, the remediation of past contamination in various facilities. in addition, some of our facilities are or have been in operation for many decades and may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are hazardous or may be considered hazardous in the future. these sites and disposal sites owned by others to which we sent waste may in the future be identified as contaminated and require remediation. accordingly, it is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that may harm our results of operations or financial condition. 17 table of contents we may be adversely affected by failure to comply with regulations of governmental agencies or by the adoption of new regulations. our products are subject to regulation by governmental agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of activities relating to our products, from design and development, to product safety, labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with these regulations, or if new regulations are adopted that substantially change existing practice or impose new burdens, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution. in addition, we could be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. we may experience impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets. as of december 31, 2011 , our consolidated balance sheet included goodwill of $447.7 million and other intangible assets of $121.4 million . our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment expense. the determination of the value of such intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. in accordance with u.s. gaap, our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. the evaluation is based on valuation models that estimate fair value based on expected future cash flows and profitability projections. in preparing the valuation models we consider a number of factors, including operating results, business plans, economic conditions, future cash flows, and transactions and market data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in applying them to the impairment analyses. the significant estimates and assumptions within our fair value models include sales growth, controllable cost growth, perpetual growth, effective tax rates and discount rates. our assessments to date have indicated that there has been no impairment of these assets. should any of these estimates or assumptions change, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, including from a prolonged economic slowdown, we may experience a triggering event that requires a new fair value assessment for our reporting units, possibly prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and resulting analysis could result in impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets if the fair value estimate declines below the carrying value. our amortization expense related to intangible assets with finite lives may materially change should our estimates of their useful lives change. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could impact our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and various other foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to allocation of expenses among different jurisdictions. our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction, changes in tax laws or tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and material adjustments from tax audits. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the u.s., is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in the u.s. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a 18 table of contents governing tax authority could affect our profitability. currency fluctuations affect our operating profits. because we conduct operations in many countries, our operating income can be significantly affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. swiss franc-denominated expenses represent a much greater percentage of our total operating expenses than swiss franc-denominated sales represent of our total net sales. in part, this is because most of our manufacturing and product development costs in switzerland relate to products that are sold outside switzerland. in addition, we have a number of corporate functions located in switzerland. therefore, if the swiss franc strengthens against all or most of our major trading currencies (e.g . , the u.s. dollar, the euro, other major european currencies, the chinese yuan and the japanese yen), our operating profit is reduced. we also have significantly more sales in euro than we have expenses. therefore, when the euro weakens against the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc, it also decreases our operating profits. accordingly, the swiss franc exchange rate to the euro is an important cross-rate that we monitor. we have seen higher volatility in exchange rates generally than in the past, and recently the swiss franc has strengthened against the euro. the average exchange rate between the swiss franc and the euro was 1.23 during 2011 as compared to 1.39 for the prior year, reflecting a 12% strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro. the current exchange rate for the swiss franc to the euro is 1.21 as of february 8, 2012 , reflecting a 2% strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro as compared to 2011 . we estimate that a 1% strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro would result in a decrease in our earnings before tax of $1.6 million to $2.2 million on an annual basis. in addition to the swiss franc and major european currencies, we also conduct business in many geographies throughout the world, including asia pacific, the united kingdom, eastern europe, latin america and canada. fluctuations in these currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar can also affect our operating results. in addition to the effects of exchange rate movements on operating profits, our debt levels can fluctuate due to changes in exchange rates, particularly between the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc. based on our outstanding debt at december 31, 2011 , we estimate that a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against the currencies in which our debt is denominated would result in an increase of approximately $4.4 million in the reported u.s. dollar value of the debt. we have debt and we may incur substantially more debt, which could affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities. we have debt and we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. as of december 31, 2011 , we had total indebtedness of approximately $269.4 million , net of cash of $235.6 million . we are also permitted by the terms of our debt instruments to incur substantial additional indebtedness, subject to the restrictions therein. the existence and magnitude of our debt could have important consequences. for example, it could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt instruments; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development and other corporate requirements; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in raw material costs; limit our ability to respond to business opportunities; limit our ability to borrow additional funds, which may be necessary; and subject us to financial and other restrictive covenants, which, if we fail to comply with these covenants and our failure is not waived or cured, could result in an event of default under our debt instruments. 19 table of contents the agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. the note purchase agreement governing our senior notes and the agreements governing our credit facility contain covenants imposing various restrictions on our business. these restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. the restrictions these covenants place on us include limitations on our ability to incur liens and consolidate, merge, sell or lease all or substantially all of our assets. our credit facility and the note purchase agreement governing our senior notes also require us to meet certain financial ratios. our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions, and is subject to the risks in this section. the breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the note purchase agreement governing the senior notes and/or under our credit facility. an event of default under the agreements governing our debt would permit holders of our debt to declare all amounts owed to them under such agreements to be immediately due and payable. acceleration of our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable to make interest payments on the senior notes and repay the principal amount of the senior notes. the lenders under our credit agreement may be unable to meet their funding commitments, reducing the amount of our borrowing capacity. we have a revolving credit facility outstanding under which the company and certain of its subsidiaries may borrow up to $870 million . our credit facility is provided by a group of 16 financial institutions, who individually have between 1% and 14% of the total funding commitment. at december 31, 2011 , we had borrowings of $376.7 million outstanding under our credit facility. our ability to borrow further funds under our credit facility is subject to the various lenders' financial condition and ability to make funds available. even though the financial institutions are contractually obligated to lend funds, if one or more of the lenders encounters financial difficulties or goes bankrupt, such lenders may be unable to meet their obligations. this could result in us being unable to borrow the full $870 million . we make from time to time forward-looking statements, and actual events or results may differ materially from these statements because assumptions we have made prove incorrect due to market conditions in our industries or other factors. we from time to time provide forward-looking statements both in our filings with the sec and orally in connection with our quarterly earnings calls, including guidance on anticipated earnings per share. these statements are only predictions. actual events or results may differ materially from these statements because assumptions we have made prove incorrect due to market conditions in our industries or other factors. we refer you to the factors discussed under the captions factors affecting our future operating results in the business section and the management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations section of this annual report on form 10-k, which describe risks and factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in those forward-looking statements. we operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. management cannot predict these new risk factors, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of these new risk factors on our businesses or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. 20 table of contents in providing guidance on our future earnings, our management evaluates our budgets, our strategic plan and certain factors relating to our business. this evaluation requires management to make several key assumptions relating to both external and internal factors. some of the key external assumptions include: the outlook for our end markets and the global economy; impact of external factors on our competition; financial position of our customers; the estimated costs of purchasing materials; developments in personnel costs; and rates for currency exchange, particularly between the swiss franc and the euro. some of these assumptions may prove to be incorrect over time. for example, although no one customer accounts for more than 2% of our revenues, if a number of our customers experienced significant deteriorations in their financial positions concurrently, it could have an impact on our results of operations. some of our key internal assumptions include the following: our ability to implement our business strategy; the effectiveness of our marketing programs such as our spinnaker initiatives; our ability to develop and deliver innovative products and services; the continued growth of our sales in emerging markets; our ability to implement price increases as forecasted; and the effectiveness of our cost saving initiatives. these internal assumptions may also prove to be incorrect over time. for example, with respect to our ability to realize our planned price increases without disturbing our customer base in core markets, in certain markets, such as emerging markets, price tends to be a more significant factor in customers' decisions to purchase our products. furthermore, we can have no assurance that our cost reduction programs will generate adequate cost savings. additionally, it may become necessary to take additional restructuring actions resulting in additional restructuring costs. we believe our current assumptions are reasonable and prudent for planning purposes. however, should any of these assumptions prove to be incorrect, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, we may experience results different than our projections. our ability to generate cash depends in part on factors beyond our control. our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. this, to an extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, including those described in this section, that are beyond our control. we cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. we cannot ensure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and the senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 21 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk discussion of this item is included in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 42 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors factors affecting our future operating results the majority of our business is derived from companies in developed countries. continued economic uncertainty in these countries may adversely affect our operating results. although the percentage of our sales coming from emerging markets is growing, the majority of our business is still derived from companies in developed countries. economic instability in many parts of the world, including the potential for a sovereign debt crisis in the european union and the united states, continues to be a situation that we are monitoring closely. concerns regarding this potential financial crisis on financial institutions globally would likely have an adverse effect on the global capital markets. more specifically, an escalation of the european or u.s. debt crises could have the following adverse effects: a substantial drop in demand for our products because of the basic inability of companies to complete commercial transactions severe limits on the ability of our company, our customers, suppliers and lenders to finance their respective businesses unavailability of liquidity at acceptable financing costs, if at all the inability to obtain materials and supplies potential devaluation and/or impairment of assets increased accounts receivable write-offs difficulty in collecting accounts receivables potential disputes about the currency of payment under various contractual arrangements for the purchases and sales of goods and services increased foreign exchange rate volatility that could result in unexpected changes in profitability and cash flow because our customers often decrease or delay capital expenditures in uncertain or difficult economic times, economic downturns or recessions in developed countries adversely affect our operating results. customers may also purchase lower-cost products made by competitors and not resume purchasing our products even after economic conditions improve. these conditions would reduce our revenues and profitability. concerns regarding the european debt crisis and market perception concerning the instability of the euro could affect our operating profits. we conduct business in many countries that use the euro as their currency (the eurozone). concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations, the overall stability of the euro, and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual eurozone countries. these concerns could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more eurozone countries, or in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely. should the euro dissolve entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at such time. these potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations. in addition, concerns over the effect of this financial crisis on financial institutions 13 table of contents in europe and globally could have an adverse effect on the global capital markets, and more specifically on the ability of our company, our customers, suppliers and lenders to finance their respective businesses, to access liquidity at acceptable financing costs, if at all, on the availability of supplies and materials and on the demand for our products. we are subject to certain risks associated with our international operations and fluctuating conditions in emerging markets; and have a significant concentration of business in china. we conduct business in many countries, including emerging markets in asia, latin america and eastern europe, and these operations represent a significant portion of our sales and earnings. for example, our chinese operations account for $432.3 million of sales to external customers, approximately 30% of our global production, and $125.2 million of segment profit during 2012 . in addition to the currency risks discussed below, international operations pose other substantial risks and problems for us. for instance, various local jurisdictions in which we operate may revise or alter their respective legal and regulatory requirements. in addition, we may encounter one or more of the following obstacles or risks: tariffs and trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and/or mandatory salary increases for local employees; credit risks arising from financial difficulties facing local customers and distributors; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; nationalization of private enterprises which may result in the confiscation of assets as we hold significant assets around the world in the form of property, plant and equipment, inventory and accounts receivable, as well as $57.1 million of cash at december 31, 2012 in our chinese subsidiaries; restrictions on investments and/or limitations regarding foreign ownership; adverse tax consequences, including tax disputes, imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; and other uncertain local economic, political and social conditions, including hyper-inflationary conditions or periods of low or no productivity growth. we must also comply with a variety of regulations regarding the conversion and repatriation of funds earned in local currencies. for example, converting earnings from our operations in china into other currencies and repatriating these funds require governmental approvals. if we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in utilizing cash flow generated by these operations outside of china. while we continued to experience sales growth in emerging markets during 2012 , growth in china was lower than recent years. fluctuating economic conditions and the current change in china's political leadership may continue to affect our results of operations in these markets in the future. certain emerging markets have also experienced currency devaluations and inflationary prices. economic problems in individual markets can also spread to other economies, adding to the adverse conditions we may face in emerging markets. we remain committed to emerging markets, particularly those in asia, latin america and eastern europe. however, fluctuating economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations in these markets. 14 table of contents we operate in highly competitive markets, and it may be difficult to preserve operating margins, gain market share and maintain a technological advantage. our markets are highly competitive. many of the markets in which we compete are fragmented both geographically and by application, particularly the industrial and food retailing markets. as a result, we face numerous regional or specialized competitors, many of which are well established in their markets. in addition, some of our competitors are divisions of larger companies with potentially greater financial and other resources than our own. some of our competitors are domiciled or operate in emerging markets and may have a lower cost structure than ours. we are confronted with new competitors in emerging markets who, although relatively small in size today, could become larger companies in their home markets. given the sometimes significant growth rates of these emerging markets, and in light of their cost advantage over developed markets, emerging market competitors could become more significant global competitors. taken together, the competitive forces present in our markets can impair our operating margins in certain product lines and geographic markets. we expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive prices. although we believe that we have certain technological and other advantages over our competitors, we may not be able to realize and maintain these advantages. we are vulnerable to system failures, including those that may be related to cyber security attacks, which could harm our business. we rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, support our customers, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make payments. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data or reduced functionality. a significant number of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our services or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, which could harm our reputation and financial condition. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our services as a result of system failures. we also are in the process of implementing our blue ocean program, a program to globalize our business processes and information technology systems that includes the implementation of a company-wide enterprise resource planning system. the implementation of this program has been proceeding on a staggered basis over a multi-year period with the initial go-live rollout having occurred in 2010. we have implemented the blue ocean program in our swiss and chinese operations and now have approximately one-third of the program completed as measured in users. we expect to implement the program in the united states and germany over the next two years and will then have more than half of the company's users on the system. if the implementation of any unit is flawed, we could suffer interruptions in operations and customer-facing activities which could harm our reputation and financial condition, or cause us to lose data, experience reduced functionality or have delays in reporting financial information. it may take us longer to implement the blue ocean program than we have planned, and the project may cost us more than we have estimated, either of which would negatively impact our ability to generate cost savings or other efficiencies. in addition, the implementation of blue ocean will increase our reliance on a single information technology system which would have greater consequences should we experience a system disruption. 15 table of contents our ability to deliver products and services may be disrupted. an interruption in our business due to events such as disruptions with our supply chain, natural disasters, pandemics or other health crises, fires or explosions may cause us to temporarily be unable to deliver products or services to our customers. it may be expensive to resolve these issues, even though some of these risks are covered by insurance policies. more importantly, customers may switch to competitors and may not return to us even if we resolve the interruption. our product development efforts may not produce commercially viable products in a timely manner. we must introduce new products and enhancements in a timely manner, or our products could become technologically obsolete over time, which would harm our operating results. to remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development, sales and marketing and customer service and support. we cannot be sure that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments. in developing new products, we may be required to make substantial investments before we can determine their commercial viability. as a result, we may not be successful in developing new products and we may never realize the benefits of our research and development activities. a widespread outbreak of an illness or other health issue could negatively affect our business, making it more difficult and expensive to meet our obligations to our customers, and could result in reduced demand from our customers. in recent years, a number of countries have experienced outbreaks of the h1n1 influenza (swine flu) or, in the asia pacific region, outbreaks of sars and/or avian influenza (bird flu). despite the implementation of certain precautions, we are susceptible to such outbreaks. as a result of such outbreaks, businesses can be shut down and individuals can become ill or quarantined. outbreaks of infectious diseases such as these, particularly in north america, europe, china or other locations significant to our operations, could adversely affect general commercial activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. if our operations are curtailed because of health issues, we may need to seek alternate sources of supply for services and staff and these alternate sources may be more expensive. alternate sources may not be available or may result in delays in shipments to our customers, each of which would affect our results of operations. in addition, a curtailment of our product design operations could result in delays in the development of new products. further, if our customers' businesses are affected by health issues, they might delay or reduce purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. a prolonged downturn or additional consolidation in the pharmaceutical, food, food retailing and chemical industries could adversely affect our operating results. our products are used extensively in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage and chemical industries. consolidation in the pharmaceutical and chemical industries hurt our sales in prior years. a prolonged economic downturn or additional consolidation in any of these industries could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, the capital spending policies of our customers in these industries are based on a variety of factors we cannot control, including the resources available for purchasing equipment, the spending priorities among various types of equipment and policies regarding capital expenditures. any decrease or delay in capital spending by our customers would cause our revenues to decline and could harm our profitability. 16 table of contents we may face risks associated with future acquisitions. we may pursue acquisitions of complementary product lines, technologies or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired operations, technologies and products; diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and potential departures of key employees of the acquired company. if we successfully identify acquisitions in the future, completing such acquisitions may result in new issuances of our stock that may be dilutive to current owners, increases in our debt and contingent liabilities and additional amortization expense related to intangible assets. any of these acquisition-related risks could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. larger companies have identified life sciences and instruments as businesses they will consider entering, which could change the competitive dynamics of these markets. in addition, we may not be able to identify, successfully complete or integrate potential acquisitions in the future. however, even if we can do so, we cannot be sure that these acquisitions will have a positive impact on our business or operating results. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights, or if we infringe or misappropriate the proprietary rights of others, our operating results could be harmed. our success depends on our ability to obtain and enforce patents on our technology, maintain our trademarks and protect our trade secrets. our patents may not provide complete protection, and competitors may develop similar products that are not covered by our patents. our patents may also be challenged by third parties and invalidated or narrowed. competitors sometimes seek to take advantage of our trademarks or brands in ways that may create customer confusion or weaken our brand. although we take measures to protect confidential information, improper use or disclosure of our trade secrets may still occur. we may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. the cost of any litigation could affect our profitability regardless of the outcome, and management attention could be diverted. if we are unsuccessful in such litigation, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing activity and/or obtain a license. if we fail to obtain a required license, we may be unable to sell some of our products, which could result in a decline in our revenues. departures of key employees could impair our operations. we generally have employment contracts with each of our key employees. our executive officers own shares of our common stock and/or have options to purchase additional shares. nevertheless, such individuals could leave the company. if any key employees stopped working for us, our operations could be harmed. important r&amp;d personnel may leave and join competitors, which could substantially delay or hinder ongoing development projects. we have no key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our senior executives. we may be adversely affected by environmental laws and regulations. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. we incur expenditures in complying with environmental laws and regulations. we are currently involved in, or have potential liability with respect to, the remediation of past contamination in various facilities. in addition, some of our facilities are or have been in operation for many decades and may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are hazardous or may be considered hazardous 17 table of contents in the future. these sites and disposal sites owned by others to which we sent waste may in the future be identified as contaminated and require remediation. accordingly, it is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that may harm our results of operations or financial condition. we may be adversely affected by new regulations relating to conflict minerals. in august 2012, the sec adopted new disclosures and reporting requirements for companies whose products contain certain minerals and their derivatives, namely tin, tantalum, tungsten or gold, known as conflict minerals. companies must report annually whether or not such minerals originate from the democratic republic of congo (drc) and adjoining countries and in some cases to perform extensive due diligence on their supply chains for such minerals. the implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of materials used in the manufacturing of our products. in addition, we will incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including cost related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals used in our products. since our supply chain is complex, the due diligence procedures that we implement may not enable us to ascertain with sufficient certainty the origins for these minerals or determine that these minerals are drc conflict free, which may harm our reputation. we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that our products be certified as drc conflict free, which could harm our relationships with these customers and/or lead to a loss of revenue. these new requirements also could have the effect of limiting the pool of suppliers from which we source these minerals, and we may be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at prices similar to the past, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. we may be adversely affected by failure to comply with regulations of governmental agencies or by the adoption of new regulations. our products are subject to regulation by governmental agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of activities relating to our products, from design and development, to product safety, labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with these regulations, or if new regulations are adopted that substantially change existing practice or impose new burdens, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution. in addition, we could be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. we may experience impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets. as of december 31, 2012 , our consolidated balance sheet included goodwill of $452.4 million and other intangible assets of $117.6 million . our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment expense. the determination of the value of such intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. in accordance with u.s. gaap, our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. the evaluation is based on valuation models that estimate fair value based on expected future cash flows and profitability projections. in preparing the valuation models we consider a number of factors, including operating results, business plans, economic conditions, future cash flows, and transactions and market data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in applying them to the impairment analyses. the significant estimates and assumptions within our fair value models include sales growth, controllable cost growth, perpetual 18 table of contents growth, effective tax rates and discount rates. our assessments to date have indicated that there has been no impairment of these assets. should any of these estimates or assumptions change, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, including from a prolonged economic slowdown, we may experience a triggering event that requires a new fair value assessment for our reporting units, possibly prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and resulting analysis could result in impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets if the fair value estimate declines below the carrying value. our amortization expense related to intangible assets with finite lives may materially change should our estimates of their useful lives change. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could impact our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and various other foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to allocation of expenses among different jurisdictions. our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction, changes in tax laws or tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and material adjustments from tax audits. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the u.s., is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in the u.s. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. our tax expense could increase as a result of a changing application of tax law. as a result of the current uncertain financial and economic environment, governments in certain of the jurisdictions in which we operate are facing greater pressure on public finances, which could lead to an increased tendency for a more aggressive application of existing tax laws and regulations. governments in the jurisdictions in which we operate from time to time also implement changes to tax laws and regulations. any changes in corporate income tax rates or regulations, on repatriation of dividends or capital, on transfer pricing as well as changes in the interpretation of existing tax laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely affect our cash flow and lead to increases in our overall tax burden, which would negatively affect our profitability. currency fluctuations affect our operating profits. because we conduct operations in many countries, our operating income can be significantly affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. swiss franc-denominated expenses represent a much greater percentage of our total operating expenses than swiss franc-denominated sales represent of our total net sales. in part, this is because most of our manufacturing and product development costs in switzerland relate to products that are sold outside switzerland. in addition, we have a number of corporate functions located in switzerland. therefore, if the swiss franc strengthens against all or most of our major trading currencies (e.g . , the u.s. dollar, the euro, other major european currencies, the chinese yuan and the japanese yen), our operating profit is reduced. we also have significantly more sales in euro than we have expenses. therefore, when the euro weakens against the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc, it also decreases our operating profits. accordingly, the swiss franc exchange rate to the euro is an important cross-rate that we monitor. during the third quarter of 2011, the swiss national bank established a floor of 1.20 relating to the swiss franc exchange rate to the euro. the duration for which the swiss national bank will 19 table of contents maintain this exchange rate floor of 1.20 is currently unknown. beginning in the third quarter of 2012, we entered into foreign currency forward contracts, as described in note 5 of our consolidated financial statements, which reduce our exposure to a strengthening of the swiss franc versus the euro. these forward contracts currently continue until january 2014. we estimate, absent these forward contracts, that a 1% strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro would result in a decrease in our earnings before tax of approximately $0.8 million to $1.2 million on an annual basis. the previously described foreign currency forward contracts reduce this exposure by approximately 75%. we also estimate a 1% strengthening of the swiss franc against the u.s. dollar would result in a decrease in our earnings before tax of $0.7 million to $0.9 million on an annual basis. in addition to the swiss franc and major european currencies, we also conduct business in many geographies throughout the world, including asia pacific, the united kingdom, eastern europe, latin america and canada. fluctuations in these currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar can also affect our operating results. in addition to the effects of exchange rate movements on operating profits, our debt levels can fluctuate due to changes in exchange rates, particularly between the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc. based on our outstanding debt at december 31, 2012 , we estimate that a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against the currencies in which our debt is denominated would result in an increase of approximately $6.2 million in the reported u.s. dollar value of the debt. we have debt and we may incur substantially more debt, which could affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities. we have debt and we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. as of december 31, 2012 , we had total indebtedness of approximately $287.0 million , net of cash of $101.7 million . we are also permitted by the terms of our debt instruments to incur substantial additional indebtedness, subject to the restrictions therein. the existence and magnitude of our debt could have important consequences. for example, it could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt instruments; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development and other corporate requirements; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in raw material costs; limit our ability to respond to business opportunities; limit our ability to borrow additional funds, which may be necessary; and subject us to financial and other restrictive covenants, which, if we fail to comply with these covenants and our failure is not waived or cured, could result in an event of default under our debt instruments. the agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. the note purchase agreements governing our senior notes and the agreements governing our credit facility contain covenants imposing various restrictions on our business. these restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. the restrictions these covenants place on us include limitations on our ability to incur liens and consolidate, merge, sell or lease all or substantially all of our assets. our credit facility and the note purchase agreements governing our senior notes also require us to meet certain financial ratios. our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions, and is subject to the risks in this section. the breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the note purchase agreements governing the senior notes and/or under our credit facility. an event of default under the agreements governing our debt would permit holders of our debt to declare all amounts owed to them 20 table of contents under such agreements to be immediately due and payable. acceleration of our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable to make interest payments on the senior notes and repay the principal amount of the senior notes. the lenders under our credit agreement may be unable to meet their funding commitments, reducing the amount of our borrowing capacity. we have a revolving credit facility outstanding under which the company and certain of its subsidiaries may borrow up to $880 million . our credit facility is provided by a group of 17 financial institutions, who individually have between 1% and 14% of the total funding commitment. at december 31, 2012 , we had borrowings of $197.1 million outstanding under our credit facility. our ability to borrow further funds under our credit facility is subject to the various lenders' financial condition and ability to make funds available. even though the financial institutions are contractually obligated to lend funds, if one or more of the lenders encounters financial difficulties or goes bankrupt, such lenders may be unable to meet their obligations. this could result in us being unable to borrow the full $880 million . we make from time to time forward-looking statements, and actual events or results may differ materially from these statements because assumptions we have made prove incorrect due to market conditions in our industries or other factors. we from time to time provide forward-looking statements both in our filings with the sec and orally in connection with our quarterly earnings calls, including guidance on anticipated earnings per share. these statements are only predictions. actual events or results may differ materially from these statements because assumptions we have made prove incorrect due to market conditions in our industries or other factors. we refer you to the factors discussed under the captions factors affecting our future operating results in the business section and the management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations section of this annual report on form 10-k, which describe risks and factors that could cause results to differ materially from those projected in those forward-looking statements. we operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. management cannot predict these new risk factors, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of these new risk factors on our businesses or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. in providing guidance on our future earnings, our management evaluates our budgets, our strategic plan and certain factors relating to our business. this evaluation requires management to make several key assumptions relating to both external and internal factors. some of the key external assumptions include: the outlook for our end markets and the global economy; impact of external factors on our competition; financial position of our customers; the estimated costs of purchasing materials; developments in personnel costs; and rates for currency exchange, particularly between the swiss franc and the euro. some of these assumptions may prove to be incorrect over time. for example, although no one customer accounts for more than 1% of our revenues, if a number of our customers experienced significant deteriorations in their financial positions concurrently, it could have an impact on our results of operations. 21 table of contents some of our key internal assumptions include the following: our ability to implement our business strategy; the effectiveness of our marketing programs such as our spinnaker initiatives; our ability to develop and deliver innovative products and services; the continued growth of our sales in emerging markets; our ability to implement price increases as forecasted; and the effectiveness of our cost saving initiatives. these internal assumptions may also prove to be incorrect over time. for example, with respect to our ability to realize our planned price increases without disturbing our customer base in core markets, in certain markets, such as emerging markets, price tends to be a more significant factor in customers' decisions to purchase our products. furthermore, we can have no assurance that our cost reduction programs will generate adequate cost savings. additionally, it may become necessary to take additional restructuring actions resulting in additional restructuring costs. we believe our current assumptions are reasonable and prudent for planning purposes. however, should any of these assumptions prove to be incorrect, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, we may experience results different than our projections. our ability to generate cash depends in part on factors beyond our control. our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. this, to an extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, including those described in this section, that are beyond our control. we cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. we cannot ensure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and the senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 22 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk discussion of this item is included in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 44 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors factors affecting our future operating results we sell primarily to companies in developed countries. continued economic uncertainty in these countries could hurt our operating results. most of our business is derived from companies in developed countries. economic instability in many parts of the world, including sovereign debt levels in the european union and the united states, continues to be a situation that we are monitoring closely. a potential financial crisis on financial institutions globally would likely have an adverse effect on the global capital markets and our business. in addition, if developed countries continue to experience slow growth or recession, we could see the following effects: a drop in demand for our products; companies being unable to finance their businesses; difficulty in obtaining materials and supplies; potential devaluation and/or impairment of assets; difficulty in collecting accounts receivables; an increase in accounts receivable write-offs; and greater foreign exchange rate volatility affecting our profitability and cash flow. economic downturns or recessions adversely affect our operating results because our customers often decrease or delay capital expenditures. customers may also purchase lower-cost products made by competitors and not resume purchasing our products even after economic conditions improve. these conditions would reduce our revenues and profitability. concerns regarding the european debt levels and market perception concerning the instability of the euro could affect our operating profits. we conduct business in many countries that use the euro as their currency (the eurozone). concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations. in addition, concerns in recent years have existed regarding the overall stability of the euro, and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual eurozone countries. these concerns could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more eurozone countries or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely. should the euro dissolve entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at such time. these potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations. in addition, concerns over the effect of this financial crisis on financial institutions in europe and globally could have an adverse effect on the global capital markets and, more specifically on the ability of our company, our customers, suppliers and lenders to finance their respective businesses, to access liquidity at acceptable financing costs, if at all, on the availability of supplies and materials and on the demand for our products. 13 table of contents we are subject to certain risks associated with our international operations and have a significant concentration of business in china. we conduct business in many countries, including emerging markets in asia, latin america and eastern europe, and these operations represent a significant portion of our sales and earnings. for example, our chinese operations account for 17% of sales to external customers and approximately 30% of our global production, and 26% of segment profit during 2013 . in addition to the currency risks discussed below, international operations pose other substantial risks and problems for us. including the following: countries may revise or alter their respective legal and regulatory requirements; local tariffs and trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and/or mandatory salary increases; credit risks arising from financial difficulties facing local customers and distributors; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; nationalization of private enterprises which may result in the confiscation of assets as we hold significant assets around the world in the form of property, plant and equipment, inventory and accounts receivable, as well as $64.4 million of cash at december 31, 2013 in our chinese subsidiaries; restrictions on investments and/or limitations regarding foreign ownership; adverse tax consequences, including tax disputes, imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; other uncertain local economic, political and social conditions, including hyper-inflationary conditions or periods of low or no productivity growth; and credit tightening or reduction in credit availability for local customers. we must also comply with regulations regarding the conversion and repatriation of funds earned in local currencies. for example, we need government approval to convert earnings from our operations in china into other currencies and to repatriate these funds. if we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in using cash generated in china. we are required to comply with various import, export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons, including in certain cases dealings with or between our employees and subsidiaries. in certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances, we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting a controlled item. in addition, failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services and damage to our reputation. our net sales to external customers in china decreased 8% in 2013 versus the previous year in local currencies primarily related to weaker market conditions. these market conditions reflect overcapacity in certain end-user segments and a reduction of credit availability for many local chinese customers. growth in china and other emerging markets can be expected to be volatile and the timing of recoveries can be uncertain. we operate in highly competitive markets, and it may be difficult for us to preserve operating margins, gain market share, and maintain a technological advantage. our markets are highly competitive. many are fragmented both geographically and by application, particularly the industrial and food retailing markets. as a result, we face numerous regional or 14 table of contents specialized competitors, many of which are well established in their markets. in addition, some of our competitors are divisions of larger companies with potentially greater financial and other resources than our own. some of our competitors are domiciled or operate in emerging markets and may have a lower cost structure than ours. we are confronted with new competitors in emerging markets which, although relatively small in size today, could become larger companies in their home markets. given the sometimes significant growth rates of these emerging markets, and in light of their cost advantage over developed markets, emerging market competitors could become more significant global competitors. taken together, the competitive forces present in our markets could harm our operating margins. we expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive prices. although we believe that we have certain technological and other advantages over our competitors, we may not be able to maintain these advantages. we are vulnerable to system failures, including those that may be related to cyber security attacks, which could harm our business. we rely on our technology infrastructure to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, support our customers, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make payments. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, and other events. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data or reduced functionality. a significant number of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in interruptions in our services or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, which could harm our reputation and financial condition. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our services as a result of system failures. we also are in the process of implementing a program to globalize our business processes and information technology systems that includes the implementation of a company-wide enterprise resource planning system. this has been proceeding on a staggered basis over several years with the initial go-live rollout having occurred in 2010. we have implemented the program in our swiss, chinese and certain u.s. operations and now have approximately half of the program implemented, as measured in users. if the implementation is flawed, we could suffer interruptions in operations and customer-facing activities that could harm our reputation and financial condition, or cause us to lose data, experience reduced functionality, or have delays in reporting financial information. it may take us longer to implement the program than we have planned, and the project may cost us more than we have estimated, either of which would negatively impact our ability to generate cost savings or other efficiencies. in addition, the implementation will increase our reliance on a single information technology system which would have greater consequences should we experience a system disruption. our ability to manufacture and deliver products and services may be disrupted. we have key manufacturing facilities located in china, europe and the united states. many of our products are developed and manufactured at single locations, with limited alternate facilities. in addition, a large portion of our products and spare parts are distributed through regional logistics centers, in which certain logistics activities are outsourced to third parties. if we experience any significant disruption in these facilities for any reason, such as strikes or other labor unrest, power interruptions, fire, earthquakes, or other events beyond our control, we may be unable to satisfy customer demand for our products or services and lose sales. it may be expensive to resolve these issues, even though some of these risks are covered by insurance policies. more importantly, customers may switch to competitors and may not return to us even if we resolve the interruption. 15 table of contents our business would suffer if we were unable to obtain supplies of material. we purchase most of our raw materials, components and supplies from multiple suppliers. some items are purchased from a limited or single source of supply, however, and disruption of these sources could affect our ability to manufacture products. even where multiple sources of materials and components are available, the quality of the alternative materials, regulatory and contractual requirements to qualify materials for use in manufacturing, and the time required to establish new relationships with reliable suppliers could result in manufacturing delays and possible loss of sales. if we are unable to obtain materials or components for an extended time, this could damage our customer relationships and harm our financial condition or results of operations. our product development efforts may not produce commercially viable products in a timely manner. if we do not introduce new products and enhancements, our products could become technologically obsolete over time, which would harm our operating results. to remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and customer service and support. we cannot be sure that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments. in developing new products, we may be required to make substantial investments before we can determine their commercial viability. as a result, we may not be successful in developing new products and we may never realize the benefits of our research and development activities. a prolonged downturn or additional consolidation in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage and chemical industries could adversely affect our operating results. a reduction in the capital resources or government funding of our customers could reduce our sales. our products are used extensively in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage and chemical industries. consolidation in the pharmaceutical and chemical industries hurt our sales in prior years. a prolonged economic downturn or additional consolidation in any of these industries could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, the capital spending policies of our customers in these and other industries are based on a variety of factors we cannot control, including the resources available for purchasing equipment, the spending priorities among various types of equipment and policies regarding capital expenditures. any decrease or delay in capital spending by our customers would cause our revenues to decline and could harm our profitability. a decline in government funding of research or education could reduce some customers' ability to purchase our products. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could impact our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and various other foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to allocation of expenses among different jurisdictions. our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction, changes in tax laws or tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and material adjustments from tax audits. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the u.s., is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in the u.s. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. 16 table of contents our tax expense could increase as a result of a changing application of tax law. as a result of the current uncertain financial and economic environment, governments are facing greater pressure on public finances, which could lead to their more aggressively applying existing tax laws and regulations. governments also periodically change tax laws and regulations. any changes in corporate income tax rates or regulations, on repatriation of dividends or capital, on transfer pricing as well as changes in the interpretation of existing tax laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely affect our cash flow and increase our overall tax burden, which would negatively affect our profitability. we face risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties that we do not control, which could harm our business. we sell some products through third parties including distributors and value-added resellers. this exposes us to various risks, including competitive pressure, concentration of sales volumes, credit risks and compliance risks. we may rely on one or a few key distributors for a product or market, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue and net earnings. distributors may also face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivables. violations of the fcpa or similar anti-bribery laws by distributors or other third party intermediaries could materially impact our business. risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position. a widespread outbreak of an illness or other health issue could negatively affect our business, making it more difficult and expensive to meet our obligations to our customers, and could result in reduced demand from our customers. in recent years, a number of countries have experienced outbreaks of the h1n1 influenza (swine flu) or, in the asia pacific region, outbreaks of sars and/or avian influenza (bird flu). despite the implementation of certain precautions, we are susceptible to such outbreaks. as a result of such outbreaks, businesses can be shut down and individuals can become ill or quarantined. outbreaks of infectious diseases such as these, particularly in north america, europe, china or other locations significant to our operations, could adversely affect general commercial activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. if our operations are curtailed because of health issues, we may need to seek alternate sources of supply for services and staff and these alternate sources may be more expensive. alternate sources may not be available or may result in delays in shipments to our customers, each of which would affect our results of operations. in addition, a curtailment of our product design operations could result in delays in the development of new products. further, if our customers' businesses are affected by health issues, they might delay or reduce purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we may face risks associated with future acquisitions. we may pursue acquisitions of complementary product lines, technologies or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in integrating the acquired operations, technologies and products; diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and potential departures of key employees of the acquired company. if we successfully identify acquisitions in the future, completing such acquisitions may result in new issuances of our stock that may be dilutive to current owners, increases in our debt and contingent liabilities and additional amortization expense related to intangible assets. any of these acquisition-related risks could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. larger companies have identified life sciences and instruments as businesses they will consider entering, which could change the competitive dynamics of these markets. in addition, we may not be able 17 table of contents to identify, successfully complete or integrate potential acquisitions in the future. even if we can do so, we cannot be sure that these acquisitions will have a positive impact on our business or operating results. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights, or if we infringe or misappropriate the proprietary rights of others, our operating results could be harmed. our success depends on our ability to obtain and enforce patents on our technology, maintain our trademarks and protect our trade secrets. our patents may not provide complete protection, and competitors may develop similar products that are not covered by our patents. our patents may also be challenged by third parties and invalidated or narrowed. competitors sometimes seek to take advantage of our trademarks or brands in ways that may create customer confusion or weaken our brand. although we take measures to protect confidential information, improper use or disclosure of our trade secrets may still occur. we may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. the cost of any litigation could affect our profitability regardless of the outcome, and management attention could be diverted. if we are unsuccessful in such litigation, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing activity and/or obtain a license. if we fail to obtain a required license, we may be unable to sell some of our products, which could result in a decline in our revenues. departures of key employees could impair our operations. we generally have employment contracts with each of our key employees. our executive officers own shares of our common stock and/or have options to purchase additional shares. nevertheless, such individuals could leave the company. if any key employees stopped working for us, our operations could be harmed. important r&amp;d personnel may leave and join competitors, which could substantially delay or hinder ongoing development projects. we have no key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our senior executives. we may be adversely affected by environmental laws and regulations. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations incur expenditures in complying with environmental laws and regulations. we are currently involved in, or have potential liability with respect to, the remediation of past contamination in various facilities. in addition, some of our facilities are or have been in operation for many decades and may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are hazardous or may be considered hazardous in the future. these sites and disposal sites owned by others to which we sent waste may in the future be identified as contaminated and require remediation. accordingly, it is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that may harm our results of operations or financial condition. 18 table of contents we may be adversely affected by new regulations relating to conflict minerals. in august 2012, the sec adopted new disclosures and reporting requirements for companies whose products contain certain minerals and their derivatives, namely tin, tantalum, tungsten or gold, known as conflict minerals. companies must report annually whether or not such minerals originate from the democratic republic of congo (drc) and adjoining countries and in some cases to perform extensive due diligence on their supply chains for such minerals. the implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of materials used in the manufacturing of our products. in addition, we will incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including cost related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals used in our products. since our supply chain is complex, the due diligence procedures that we implement may not enable us to ascertain with sufficient certainty the origins for these minerals or determine that these minerals are drc conflict free, which may harm our reputation. we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that our products be certified as drc conflict free, which could harm our relationships with these customers and/or lead to a loss of revenue. these new requirements also could have the effect of limiting the pool of suppliers from which we source these minerals, and we may be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at prices similar to the past, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. we may be adversely affected by failure to comply with regulations of governmental agencies or by the adoption of new regulations. our products are subject to regulation by governmental agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of activities relating to our products, from design and development, product safety, labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with these regulations, or if new regulations are adopted that substantially change existing practice or impose new burdens, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution. in addition, we could be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. we may experience impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets. as of december 31, 2013 , our consolidated balance sheet included goodwill of $455.8 million and other intangible assets of $114.4 million . our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment expense. we make estimates and assumptions in valuing such intangible assets that affect our consolidated financial statements. in accordance with u.s. gaap, our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. the evaluation is based on valuation models that estimate fair value. in preparing the valuation models we consider a number of factors, including operating results, business plans, economic conditions, future cash flows, and transactions and market data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in applying them to the impairment analyses. the significant estimates and assumptions within our fair value models include sales growth, controllable cost growth, perpetual growth, effective tax rates and discount rates. our assessments to date have indicated that there has been no impairment of these assets. should any of these estimates or assumptions change, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, including from a prolonged economic slowdown, we may experience a triggering event that requires a new fair value assessment for our reporting units, possibly prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and resulting analysis could result in 19 table of contents impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets if the fair value estimate declines below the carrying value. our amortization expense related to intangible assets with finite lives may materially change should our estimates of their useful lives change. currency fluctuations affect our operating profits. our earnings are affected by changing exchange rates. we are most sensitive to changes in the exchange rates between the swiss franc, euro, and u.s. dollar. we have more swiss franc expenses than we do swiss franc sales because we develop and manufacture products in switzerland that we sell globally, and have a number of corporate functions located in switzerland. when the swiss franc strengthens against our other trading currencies, particularly the u.s. dollar and euro, our earnings go down. we also have significantly more sales in the euro than we do expenses. when the euro weakens against the u.s. dollar and swiss franc, our earnings also go down. a few factors help us manage these exchange rate risks. in september 2011, the swiss national bank established an exchange rate floor of 1.20 swiss francs per euro. the floor has effectively stopped the strengthening of the swiss franc beyond the 1.20 level. we do not know how long the swiss national bank will maintain this exchange rate floor. additionally, in the third quarter of 2012, we entered into foreign currency forward contracts that reduce approximately 75% of our exposure from the swiss franc strengthening against the euro. the forward contracts expire in january 2015. absent these forward exchange contracts, we estimate a 1% strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro would reduce our earnings before tax by approximately $1.2 million annually. the impact on our earnings before tax of the swiss franc strengthening against the u.s. dollar is approximately $0.4 million annually. we also conduct business in many geographies throughout the world, including asia pacific, the united kingdom, eastern europe, latin america and canada. fluctuations in these currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar can also affect our operating results. in addition to the effects of exchange rate movements on operating profits, our debt levels can fluctuate due to changes in exchange rates, particularly between the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc. based on our outstanding debt at december 31, 2013, we estimate that a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against the currencies in which our debt is denominated would result in an increase of approximately $8.5 million in the reported u.s. dollar value of the debt. we have debt and we may incur substantially more debt, which could affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities. we have debt and we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. as of december 31, 2013 , we had total indebtedness of approximately $301.1 million , net of cash of $111.9 million . our debt instruments allow us to incur substantial additional indebtedness. the existence and magnitude of our debt could have important consequences. for example, it could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt instruments; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development and other corporate requirements; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in raw material costs; limit our ability to respond to business opportunities; limit our ability to borrow additional funds, which may be necessary; and subject us to financial and other restrictive covenants, which, if we fail to comply with these covenants and our failure is not waived or cured, could result in an event of default under our debt instruments. 20 table of contents the agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. the note purchase agreements governing our senior notes and the agreements governing our credit facility contain covenants imposing various restrictions on our business. these restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. the restrictions these covenants place on us include limitations on our ability to incur liens and consolidate, merge, sell or lease all or substantially all of our assets. our credit facility and the note purchase agreements governing our senior notes also require us to meet certain financial ratios. our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including economic, financial and industry conditions. the breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the note purchase agreements governing the senior notes and/or under our credit facility. an event of default under the agreements governing our debt would permit holders of our debt to declare all amounts owed to them under such agreements to be immediately due and payable. acceleration of our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable to make interest payments on the senior notes and repay the principal amount of the senior notes. the lenders under our credit agreement may be unable to meet their funding commitments, reducing the amount of our borrowing capacity. we have a revolving credit facility outstanding under which the company and certain of its subsidiaries may borrow up to $800 million . our credit facility is provided by a group of 13 financial institutions, which individually have between 2% and 14% of the total funding commitment. at december 31, 2013 , we had borrowings of $196.0 million outstanding under our credit facility. our ability to borrow further funds under our credit facility is subject to the various lenders' financial condition and ability to make funds available. even though the financial institutions are contractually obligated to lend funds, if one or more of the lenders encounters financial difficulties or goes bankrupt, such lenders may be unable to meet their obligations. this could result in us being unable to borrow the full $800 million amount available. we make forward-looking statements, and actual events or results may differ materially from these statements because assumptions we have made prove incorrect due to market conditions in our industries or other factors. we provide forward-looking statements both in our filings with the sec and orally in connection with our quarterly earnings calls, including guidance on anticipated earnings per share. you should not rely on forward-looking statements to predict our actual results. our actual results or performance may be materially different than reflected in forward-looking statements because of various risks and uncertainties. our forward-looking statements may not be accurate or complete, and we do not intend to update or revise them in light of actual results. new risks also periodically arise. please consider the risks and factors that could cause our results to differ materially from what is described in our forward-looking statements. see in particular factors affecting our future operating results and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. in providing guidance on our future earnings, we evaluate our budgets, strategic plans, and other factors relating to our business. we make assumptions about external factors, including the following: the outlook for our end markets and the global economy; the impact of external factors on our competition; the financial position of our customers; the estimated costs of purchasing materials; 21 table of contents developments in personnel costs; and rates for currency exchange, particularly between the swiss franc and the euro. some of these assumptions may prove to be incorrect over time. for example, although no single customer accounts for more than 1% of our revenues, if a number of our customers experienced significant deteriorations in their financial positions concurrently, it could have an impact on our results of operations. some of our key internal assumptions include the following: our ability to implement our business strategy; the effectiveness of our marketing programs such as our spinnaker initiatives; our ability to develop and deliver innovative products and services; the continued growth of our sales in emerging markets; our ability to implement price increases as forecasted; and the effectiveness of our cost saving initiatives. these internal assumptions may also prove to be incorrect over time. for example, with respect to our ability to realize our planned price increases without disturbing our customer base in core markets, in certain markets, such as emerging markets, price tends to be a more significant factor in customers' decisions to purchase our products. furthermore, we can have no assurance that our cost reduction programs will generate adequate cost savings. additionally, it may become necessary to take additional restructuring actions resulting in additional restructuring costs. we believe our current assumptions are reasonable and prudent for planning purposes. however, should any of these assumptions prove to be incorrect, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, we may experience results different than our projections. our ability to generate cash depends in part on factors beyond our control. our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. this is subject to factors beyond our control, including general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors described in this section. we cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. we cannot ensure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and the senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 22 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk discussion of this item is included in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 43 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors factors affecting our future operating results we sell primarily to companies in developed countries. continued economic uncertainty in these countries could hurt our operating results. most of our business is derived from companies in developed countries. economic instability in many parts of the world, including sovereign debt levels in the european union and the united states, continues to be a situation that we are monitoring closely. a potential financial crisis on financial institutions globally would likely have an adverse effect on the global capital markets and our business. in addition, if developed countries were to experience slow growth or recession, we could see the following effects: a drop in demand for our products; companies being unable to finance their businesses; difficulty in obtaining materials and supplies; potential devaluation and/or impairment of assets; difficulty in collecting accounts receivables; an increase in accounts receivable write-offs; and greater foreign exchange rate volatility affecting our profitability and cash flow. economic downturns or recessions adversely affect our operating results because our customers often decrease or delay capital expenditures. customers may also purchase lower-cost products made by competitors and not resume purchasing our products even after economic conditions improve. these conditions would reduce our revenues and profitability. we are subject to certain risks associated with our international operations and have a significant concentration of business in china. we conduct business in many countries, including emerging markets in asia, latin america, and eastern europe, and these operations represent a significant portion of our sales and earnings. for example, our chinese operations account for 17% of sales to external customers, approximately 30% of our global production, and 26% of segment profit during 2014 . in addition to the currency risks discussed below, international operations pose other substantial risks and problems for us. including the following: countries may revise or alter their respective legal and regulatory requirements; local tariffs and trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and/or mandatory salary increases; credit risks arising from financial difficulties facing local customers and distributors; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; nationalization of private enterprises which may result in the confiscation of assets, as we hold significant assets around the world in the form of property, plant, and equipment, inventory, and accounts receivable, as well as $46.3 million of cash at december 31, 2014 in our chinese subsidiaries; restrictions on investments and/or limitations regarding foreign ownership; adverse tax consequences, including tax disputes, imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; other uncertain local economic, political, and social conditions, including hyper-inflationary conditions or periods of low or no productivity growth; and credit tightening or reduction in credit availability for local customers. 13 table of contents we must also comply with regulations regarding the conversion and repatriation of funds earned in local currencies. for example, we need government approval to convert earnings from our operations in china into other currencies and to repatriate these funds. if we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in using cash generated in china. we are required to comply with various import, export control, and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners, and other persons, including in certain cases dealings with or between our employees and subsidiaries. in certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services, and technologies, and in other circumstances, we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting a controlled item. we do business in russia and crimea. sanctions imposed on business in these regions will likely affect the economies and our business in these regions. in addition, failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services and damage to our reputation. current chinese market conditions reflect overcapacity in certain end-user segments and a reduction of credit availability for many local chinese customers. growth in china and other emerging markets can be expected to be volatile and the timing of recoveries can be uncertain. currency fluctuations affect our operating profits. our earnings are affected by changing exchange rates. we are most sensitive to changes in the exchange rates between the swiss franc, euro, and u.s. dollar. we have more swiss franc expenses than we do swiss franc sales because we develop and manufacture products in switzerland that we sell globally and have a number of corporate functions located in switzerland. when the swiss franc strengthens against our other trading currencies, particularly the u.s. dollar and euro, our earnings go down. we also have significantly more sales in the euro than we do expenses. when the euro weakens against the u.s. dollar and swiss franc, our earnings also go down. in january 2015, we entered into foreign currency forward contracts that reduce our exposure from the swiss franc strengthening against the euro through 2016. the notional amount and average forward rate of our foreign currency forward contracts is euro 86 million and 1.21 for contracts that mature in 2015, and euro 67 million and 1.19 for contracts that mature in 2016, respectively. in september 2011, the swiss national bank established an exchange rate floor of 1.20 swiss francs per euro which was abandoned in january 2015 after we entered into the previously mentioned foreign currency forward contracts. the swiss national bank's abandonment of the euro exchange rate floor resulted in an immediate strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro and u.s. dollar. absent these forward currency forward contracts, we estimate a 1% strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro would reduce our earnings before tax by approximately $1.1million to $1.3 million annually. we also estimate a 1% strengthening of the swiss franc against the u.s. dollar would reduce our earnings before tax by approximately $0.5 million to $0.7 million annually in addition to the previously mentioned strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro impact. we also conduct business in many geographies throughout the world, including asia pacific, the united kingdom, eastern europe, latin america, and canada. fluctuations in these currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar can also affect our operating results. the most significant of these currency exposures is the chinese renminbi. the impact on our earnings before tax of the chinese renminbi weakening 1% against the u.s. dollar is a reduction of approximately $0.7 million to $0.9 million annually. 14 table of contents in addition to the effects of exchange rate movements on operating profits, our debt levels can fluctuate due to changes in exchange rates, particularly between the u.s. dollar and the swiss franc. based on our outstanding debt at december 31, 2014, we estimate that a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against the currencies in which our debt is denominated would result in an increase of approximately $2.3 million in the reported u.s. dollar value of our debt. concerns regarding the european debt levels and market perception concerning the instability of the euro could affect our operating profits. we conduct business in many countries that use the euro as their currency (the eurozone). concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations. in addition, concerns in recent years have existed regarding the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual eurozone countries. these concerns could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more eurozone countries or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely. should the euro dissolve entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at such time. these potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations. in addition, concerns over the effect of this financial crisis on financial institutions in europe and globally could have an adverse effect on the global capital markets and, more specifically, on the ability of our company, our customers, suppliers, and lenders to finance their respective businesses, to access liquidity at acceptable financing costs, if at all, on the availability of supplies and materials, and on the demand for our products. we are vulnerable to system failures, including those that may be related to cyber security attacks, which could harm our business. we rely on our technology infrastructure to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, support our customers, fulfill orders, and bill, collect, and make payments. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist or hacker attacks, computer viruses, and other events. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data, or reduced functionality. a significant number of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in interruptions in our services, fraudulent loss of assets, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, which could harm our reputation and financial condition. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our services or data loss as a result of system failures. we also are in the process of implementing a program to globalize our business processes and information technology systems that includes the implementation of a company-wide enterprise resource planning system. this has been proceeding on a staggered basis over several years with the initial go-live rollout having occurred in 2010. we have implemented the program in our swiss, chinese, and certain u.s. and german operations and have more than half of the program implemented, as measured in users. if the implementation is flawed, we could suffer interruptions in operations and customer-facing activities that could harm our reputation and financial condition, or cause us to lose data, experience reduced functionality, or have delays in reporting financial information. it may take us longer to implement the program than we have planned, and the project may cost us more than we have estimated, either of which would negatively impact our ability to generate cost savings or other efficiencies. in addition, the implementation will increase our reliance on a single information technology system, which would have greater consequences should we experience a system disruption. 15 table of contents we operate in highly competitive markets, and it may be difficult for us to preserve operating margins, gain market share, and maintain a technological advantage. our markets are highly competitive. many are fragmented both geographically and by application, particularly the industrial and food retailing markets. as a result, we face numerous regional or specialized competitors, many of which are well established in their markets. in addition, some of our competitors are divisions of larger companies with potentially greater financial and other resources than our own. some of our competitors are domiciled or operate in emerging markets and may have a lower cost structure than ours. we are confronted with new competitors in emerging markets which, although relatively small in size today, could become larger companies in their home markets. given the sometimes significant growth rates of these emerging markets, and in light of their cost advantage over developed markets, emerging market competitors could become more significant global competitors. taken together, the competitive forces present in our markets could harm our operating margins. we expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive prices. although we believe that we have certain technological and other advantages over our competitors, we may not be able to maintain these advantages. our ability to manufacture and deliver products and services may be disrupted. we have key manufacturing facilities located in china, europe, and the united states. many of our products are developed and manufactured at single locations, with limited alternate facilities. in addition, a large portion of our products and spare parts are distributed through regional logistics centers, in which certain logistics activities are outsourced to third parties. if we experience any significant disruption in these facilities for any reason, such as strikes or other labor unrest, power interruptions, fire, earthquakes, or other events beyond our control, we may be unable to satisfy customer demand for our products or services and lose sales. it may be expensive to resolve these issues, even though some of these risks are covered by insurance policies. more importantly, customers may switch to competitors and may not return to us even if we resolve the interruption. our business would suffer if we were unable to obtain supplies of material. we purchase most of our raw materials, components, and supplies from multiple suppliers. some items are purchased from a limited or single source of supply, however, and disruption of these sources could affect our ability to manufacture products. even where multiple sources of materials and components are available, the quality of the alternative materials, regulatory and contractual requirements to qualify materials for use in manufacturing, and the time required to establish new relationships with reliable suppliers could result in manufacturing delays and possible loss of sales. if we are unable to obtain materials or components for an extended time, this could damage our customer relationships and harm our financial condition or results of operations. our product development efforts may not produce commercially viable products in a timely manner. if we do not introduce new products and enhancements, our products could become technologically obsolete over time, which would harm our operating results. to remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and customer service and support. we cannot be sure that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments. in developing new products, we may be required to make substantial investments before we can determine their commercial viability. as a result, we may not be successful in developing new products and we may never realize the benefits of our research and development activities. 16 table of contents a prolonged downturn or additional consolidation in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and chemical industries could adversely affect our operating results. a reduction in the capital resources or government funding of our customers could reduce our sales. our products are used extensively in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and chemical industries. consolidation in the pharmaceutical and chemical industries hurt our sales in prior years. a prolonged economic downturn or additional consolidation in any of these industries could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, the capital spending policies of our customers in these and other industries are based on a variety of factors we cannot control, including the resources available for purchasing equipment, the spending priorities among various types of equipment, and policies regarding capital expenditures. any decrease or delay in capital spending by our customers would cause our revenues to decline and could harm our profitability. a decline in government funding of research or education could reduce some customers' ability to purchase our products. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could impact our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and various other foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to allocation of expenses among different jurisdictions. our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction, changes in tax laws or tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and material adjustments from tax audits. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the u.s., is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in the u.s. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. our tax expense could increase as a result of a changing application of tax law. as a result of the current uncertain financial and economic environment, governments are facing greater pressure on public finances, which could lead to their more aggressively applying existing tax laws and regulations. governments also periodically change tax laws and regulations. any changes in corporate income tax rates or regulations, on repatriation of dividends or capital, or on transfer pricing, as well as changes in the interpretation of existing tax laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, could adversely affect our cash flow and increase our overall tax burden, which would negatively affect our profitability. we face risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties that we do not control, which could harm our business. we sell some products through third parties including distributors and value-added resellers. this exposes us to various risks, including competitive pressure, concentration of sales volumes, credit risks, and compliance risks. we may rely on one or a few key distributors for a product or market, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue and net earnings. distributors may also face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivables. violations of the fcpa or similar anti-bribery laws by distributors or other third party intermediaries could materially impact our business. risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position. 17 table of contents a widespread outbreak of an illness or other health issue could negatively affect our business, making it more difficult and expensive to meet our obligations to our customers, and could result in reduced demand from our customers. in recent years, a number of countries have experienced outbreaks of the h1n1 influenza (swine flu) or, in the asia pacific region, outbreaks of sars and/or avian influenza (bird flu), and more recently, ebola outbreaks in parts of africa. despite the implementation of certain precautions, we are susceptible to such outbreaks. as a result of such outbreaks, businesses can be shut down and individuals can become ill or quarantined. outbreaks of infectious diseases such as these, particularly in north america, europe, china, or other locations significant to our operations, could adversely affect general commercial activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, or prospects. if our operations are curtailed because of health issues, we may need to seek alternate sources of supply for services and staff and these alternate sources may be more expensive. alternate sources may not be available or may result in delays in shipments to our customers, each of which would affect our results of operations. in addition, a curtailment of our product design operations could result in delays in the development of new products. further, if our customers' businesses are affected by health issues, they might delay or reduce purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we may face risks associated with future acquisitions. we may pursue acquisitions of complementary product lines, technologies, or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in integrating the acquired operations, technologies, and products; diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and potential departures of key employees of the acquired company. if we successfully identify acquisitions in the future, completing such acquisitions may result in new issuances of our stock that may be dilutive to current owners, increases in our debt and contingent liabilities, and additional amortization expense related to intangible assets. any of these acquisition-related risks could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. larger companies have identified life sciences and instruments as businesses they will consider entering, which could change the competitive dynamics of these markets. in addition, we may not be able to identify, successfully complete, or integrate potential acquisitions in the future. even if we can do so, we cannot be sure that these acquisitions will have a positive impact on our business or operating results. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights, or if we infringe or misappropriate the proprietary rights of others, our operating results could be harmed. our success depends on our ability to obtain and enforce patents on our technology, maintain our trademarks, and protect our trade secrets. our patents may not provide complete protection, and competitors may develop similar products that are not covered by our patents. our patents may also be challenged by third parties and invalidated or narrowed. competitors sometimes seek to take advantage of our trademarks or brands in ways that may create customer confusion or weaken our brand. although we take measures to protect confidential information, improper use or disclosure of our trade secrets may still occur. we may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. the cost of any litigation could affect our profitability regardless of the outcome, and management attention could be diverted. if we are unsuccessful in such litigation, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing activity, and/or obtain a license. if we fail to obtain a required license, we may be unable to sell some of our products, which could result in a decline in our revenues. 18 table of contents departures of key employees could impair our operations. we generally have employment contracts with each of our key employees. our executive officers own shares of our common stock and/or have options to purchase additional shares. nevertheless, such individuals could leave the company. if any key employees stopped working for us, our operations could be harmed. important r&amp;d personnel may leave and join competitors, which could substantially delay or hinder ongoing development projects. we have no key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our senior executives. we may be adversely affected by environmental laws and regulations. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations and incur expenditures in complying with environmental laws and regulations. we are currently involved in, or have potential liability with respect to, the remediation of past contamination in various facilities. in addition, some of our facilities are or have been in operation for many decades and may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are hazardous or may be considered hazardous in the future. these sites and disposal sites owned by others to which we sent waste may in the future be identified as contaminated and require remediation. accordingly, it is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that may harm our results of operations or financial condition. we may be adversely affected by regulations relating to conflict minerals. in august 2012, the sec adopted disclosures and reporting requirements for companies whose products contain certain minerals and their derivatives, namely tin, tantalum, tungsten, or gold, known as conflict minerals. companies must report annually whether or not such minerals originate from the democratic republic of congo (drc) and adjoining countries and in some cases to perform extensive due diligence on their supply chains for such minerals. the implementation of these requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability, and pricing of materials used in the manufacturing of our products. in addition, we will incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including cost related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals used in our products. since our supply chain is complex, the due diligence procedures that we implement may not enable us to ascertain with sufficient certainty the origins for these minerals or determine that these minerals are drc conflict free, which may harm our reputation. we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that our products be certified as drc conflict free, which could harm our relationships with these customers and/or lead to a loss of revenue. these requirements also could have the effect of limiting the pool of suppliers from which we source these minerals, and we may be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at prices similar to the past, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. we may be adversely affected by failure to comply with regulations of governmental agencies or by the adoption of new regulations. our products are subject to regulation by governmental agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of activities relating to our products, from design and development, product safety, labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales, and distribution. if we fail to comply with these regulations, or if new regulations are adopted that substantially change existing practice or impose new burdens, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution. in addition, we could be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. 19 table of contents we may experience impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets. as of december 31, 2014 , our consolidated balance sheet included goodwill of $444.1 million and other intangible assets of $112.8 million . our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment expense. we make estimates and assumptions in valuing such intangible assets that affect our consolidated financial statements. in accordance with u.s. gaap, our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. the evaluation is based on valuation models that estimate fair value. in preparing the valuation models, we consider a number of factors, including operating results, business plans, economic conditions, future cash flows, and transactions and market data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in applying them to the impairment analyses. the significant estimates and assumptions within our fair value models include sales growth, controllable cost growth, perpetual growth, effective tax rates, and discount rates. our assessments to date have indicated that there has been no impairment of these assets. should any of these estimates or assumptions change, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, including from a prolonged economic slowdown, we may experience a triggering event that requires a new fair value assessment for our reporting units, possibly prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and resulting analysis could result in impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets if the fair value estimate declines below the carrying value. our amortization expense related to intangible assets with finite lives may materially change should our estimates of their useful lives change. we have debt and we may incur substantially more debt, which could affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities. we have debt and we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. as of december 31, 2014 , we had total indebtedness of approximately $366.7 million , net of cash of $85.3 million . our debt instruments allow us to incur substantial additional indebtedness. the existence and magnitude of our debt could have important consequences. for example, it could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt instruments; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development, and other corporate requirements; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in raw material costs; limit our ability to respond to business opportunities; limit our ability to borrow additional funds, which may be necessary; and subject us to financial and other restrictive covenants, which, if we fail to comply with these covenants and our failure is not waived or cured, could result in an event of default under our debt instruments. the agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. the note purchase agreements governing our senior notes and the agreements governing our credit facility contain covenants imposing various restrictions on our business. these restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. the restrictions these covenants place on us include limitations on our ability to incur liens and consolidate, merge, sell, or lease all or substantially all of our assets. our credit facility and the note purchase agreements governing our senior notes also require us to meet certain financial ratios. 20 table of contents our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including economic, financial, and industry conditions. the breach of any covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the note purchase agreements governing the senior notes and/or under our credit facility. an event of default under the agreements governing our debt would permit holders of our debt to declare all amounts owed to them under such agreements to be immediately due and payable. acceleration of our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable to make interest payments on the senior notes and repay the principal amount of the senior notes. the lenders under our credit agreement may be unable to meet their funding commitments, reducing the amount of our borrowing capacity. we have a revolving credit facility outstanding under which the company and certain of its subsidiaries may borrow up to $800 million . our credit facility is provided by a group of 13 financial institutions, which individually have between 2% and 14% of the total funding commitment. at december 31, 2014 , we had borrowings of $110.8 million outstanding under our credit facility. our ability to borrow further funds under our credit facility is subject to the various lenders' financial condition and ability to make funds available. even though the financial institutions are contractually obligated to lend funds, if one or more of the lenders encounters financial difficulties or goes bankrupt, such lenders may be unable to meet their obligations. this could result in us being unable to borrow the full $800 million amount available. we make forward-looking statements, and actual events or results may differ materially from these statements because assumptions we have made prove incorrect due to market conditions in our industries or other factors. we provide forward-looking statements both in our filings with the sec and orally in connection with our quarterly earnings calls, including guidance on anticipated earnings per share. you should not rely on forward-looking statements to predict our actual results. our actual results or performance may be materially different than reflected in forward-looking statements because of various risks and uncertainties. our forward-looking statements may not be accurate or complete, and we do not intend to update or revise them in light of actual results. new risks also periodically arise. please consider the risks and factors that could cause our results to differ materially from what is described in our forward-looking statements. see in particular factors affecting our future operating results and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. in providing guidance on our future earnings, we evaluate our budgets, strategic plans, and other factors relating to our business. we make assumptions about external factors, including the following: the outlook for our end markets and the global economy; the impact of external factors on our competition; the financial position of our customers; the estimated costs of purchasing materials; developments in personnel costs; and rates for currency exchange, particularly between the swiss franc and the euro. some of these assumptions may prove to be incorrect over time. for example, although no single customer accounts for more than 1% of our revenues, if a number of our customers experienced significant deteriorations in their financial positions concurrently, it could have an impact on our results of operations. 21 table of contents some of our key internal assumptions include the following: our ability to implement our business strategy; the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs such as our spinnaker and market penetration initiatives; our ability to develop and deliver innovative products and services; the continued growth of our sales in emerging markets; our ability to implement price increases as forecasted; and the effectiveness of our cost saving initiatives. these internal assumptions may also prove to be incorrect over time. for example, with respect to our ability to realize our planned price increases without disturbing our customer base in core markets, in certain markets, such as emerging markets, price tends to be a more significant factor in customers' decisions to purchase our products. furthermore, we can have no assurance that our cost reduction programs will generate adequate cost savings. additionally, it may become necessary to take additional restructuring actions resulting in additional restructuring costs. we believe our current assumptions are reasonable and prudent for planning purposes. however, should any of these assumptions prove to be incorrect, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, we may experience results different than our projections. our ability to generate cash depends in part on factors beyond our control. our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. this is subject to factors beyond our control, including general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors described in this section. we cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. we cannot ensure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and the senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 22 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk discussion of this item is included in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 44 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors factors affecting our future operating results we are subject to certain risks associated with our international operations and have a significant concentration of business in china. we conduct business in many countries, including emerging markets in asia, latin america, and eastern europe, and these operations represent a significant portion of our sales and earnings. for example, our chinese operations account for 16% of sales to external customers, approximately 30% of our global production, and 29% of total segment profit during 2015 . in addition to the currency risks discussed below, international operations pose other substantial risks and problems for us. including the following: countries may revise or alter their respective legal and regulatory requirements; local tariffs and trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and/or mandatory salary increases; credit risks arising from financial difficulties facing local customers and distributors; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; nationalization of private enterprises which may result in the confiscation of assets, as we hold significant assets around the world in the form of property, plant, and equipment, inventory, and accounts receivable, as well as $39 million of cash at december 31, 2015 in our chinese subsidiaries; restrictions on investments and/or limitations regarding foreign ownership; adverse tax consequences, including tax disputes, imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; other uncertain local economic, political, and social conditions, including hyper-inflationary conditions or periods of low or no productivity growth; and credit tightening or reduction in credit availability for local customers. we must also comply with regulations regarding the conversion and repatriation of funds earned in local currencies. for example, we need government approval to convert earnings from our operations in china into other currencies and to repatriate these funds. if we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in using cash generated in china. we are required to comply with various import, export control, and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners, and other persons, including in certain cases dealings with or between our employees and subsidiaries. in certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services, and technologies, and in other circumstances, we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting a controlled item. we follow all relevant laws and continue to do business in russia. sanctions imposed on business in russia will likely continue to affect the economy and our business in russia. in addition, failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services, and damage to our reputation. during 2015, china, russia, and brazil accounted for 18% of our sales to external customers and declined 11% in local currencies as customer investments have slowed due to a variety of economic factors. in particular, chinese market conditions continue to reflect overcapacity in certain end-user segments and a reduction of credit availability for many local chinese customers. the timing of a market stabilization or recovery in china, russia, and brazil remains uncertain. growth in other emerging markets can also be expected to be volatile. 14 table of contents we sell primarily to companies in developed countries. an economic downturn in these countries could hurt our operating results. most of our business is derived from companies in developed countries. economic instability in many parts of the world, including sovereign debt levels in the european union and the united states, continues to be a situation that we are monitoring closely. a potential financial crisis on financial institutions globally would likely have an adverse effect on the global capital markets and our business. in addition, if developed countries were to experience slow growth or recession, we could see the following effects: a drop in demand for our products; companies being unable to finance their businesses; difficulty in obtaining materials and supplies; potential devaluation and/or impairment of assets; difficulty in collecting accounts receivables; an increase in accounts receivable write-offs; and greater foreign exchange rate volatility affecting our profitability and cash flow. economic downturns or recessions adversely affect our operating results because our customers often decrease or delay capital expenditures. customers may also purchase lower-cost products made by competitors and not resume purchasing our products even after economic conditions improve. these conditions would reduce our revenues and profitability. currency fluctuations affect our operating profits. our earnings are affected by changing exchange rates. we are most sensitive to changes in the exchange rates between the swiss franc, euro, and u.s. dollar. we have more swiss franc expenses than we do swiss franc sales because we develop and manufacture products in switzerland that we sell globally and have a number of corporate functions located in switzerland. when the swiss franc strengthens against our other trading currencies, particularly the u.s. dollar and euro, our earnings go down. we also have significantly more sales in the euro than we do expenses. when the euro weakens against the u.s. dollar and swiss franc, our earnings also go down. in september 2011, the swiss national bank established an exchange rate floor of 1.20 swiss francs per euro which was abandoned in january 2015. the swiss national bank's abandonment of the euro exchange rate floor resulted in an immediate strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro and u.s. dollar. excluding the effects of any foreign currency hedging contracts, we estimate a 1% strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro would reduce our earnings before tax by approximately $1.2 million to $1.4 million annually. we also estimate a 1% strengthening of the swiss franc against the u.s. dollar would reduce our earnings before tax by approximately $0.4 million to $0.6 million annually in addition to the previously mentioned strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro impact. we also conduct business in many geographies throughout the world, including asia pacific, the united kingdom, eastern europe, latin america, and canada. fluctuations in these currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar can also affect our operating results. the most significant of these currency exposures is the chinese renminbi. the impact on our earnings before tax of the chinese renminbi weakening 1% against the u.s. dollar is a reduction of approximately $0.3 million to $0.5 million annually. in 2015, the u.s. dollar strengthened against most of the major currencies throughout the world. the strength of the u.s. dollar may have a significant negative impact on the company's financial performance in the future. in addition to the effects of exchange rate movements on operating profits, our debt levels can fluctuate due to changes in exchange rates, particularly between the u.s. dollar, the swiss franc, and euro. based on 15 table of contents our outstanding debt at december 31, 2015 , we estimate that a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against the currencies in which our debt is denominated would result in an increase of approximately $19.2 million in the reported u.s. dollar value of our debt. concerns regarding the eurozone debt levels and market perception concerning the instability of the euro could affect our operating profits. we conduct business in many countries that use the euro as their currency (the eurozone). concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations. in addition, concerns in recent years have existed regarding the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual eurozone countries. these concerns could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more eurozone countries or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely. should the euro dissolve entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at such time. these potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations. in addition, concerns over the effect of this financial crisis on financial institutions in europe and globally could have an adverse effect on the global capital markets and, more specifically, on the ability of our company, our customers, suppliers, and lenders to finance their respective businesses, to access liquidity at acceptable financing costs, if at all, on the availability of supplies and materials, and on the demand for our products. we are vulnerable to system failures and data loss risks, including those that may be related to cyber security attacks, which could harm our business. we rely on our technology infrastructure to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, support our customers, fulfill orders, and bill, collect, and make payments. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist or hacker attacks, malicious employees or employee negligence, computer viruses, and other events. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data, or reduced functionality. a significant number of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in interruptions in our services, fraudulent loss of assets, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, which could harm our reputation and financial condition. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our services or data loss as a result of system failures. customers may use our products to generate or manage confidential information. though we take steps to ensure our products are secure, it is possible customers could lose confidential information stored on our products. if a customer alleges security failures in our products cause or contribute to a loss, we could face harm to our reputation and financial condition and legal liability. we also are in the process of implementing a program to globalize our business processes and information technology systems that includes the implementation of a company-wide enterprise resource planning system. this has been proceeding on a staggered basis over several years with the initial go-live rollout having occurred in 2010. we have implemented the program in our swiss, chinese, and certain u.s., german, and u. k. operations and have approximately two-thirds of the program implemented, as measured in users. if the implementation is flawed, we could suffer interruptions in operations and customer-facing activities that could harm our reputation and financial condition, or cause us to lose data, experience reduced functionality, or have delays in reporting financial information. it may take us longer 16 table of contents to implement the program than we have planned, and the project may cost us more than we have estimated, either of which would negatively impact our ability to generate cost savings or other efficiencies. in addition, the implementation will increase our reliance on a single information technology system, which would have greater consequences should we experience a system disruption. we operate in highly competitive markets, and it may be difficult for us to preserve operating margins, gain market share, and maintain a technological advantage. our markets are highly competitive. many are fragmented both geographically and by application, particularly the industrial and food retailing markets. as a result, we face numerous regional or specialized competitors, many of which are well established in their markets. in addition, some of our competitors are divisions of larger companies with potentially greater financial and other resources than our own. there has also been an increase in the consolidation of precision instrument companies in recent years. any consolidation within our market could result in competitors becoming larger and having greater financial and other resources than our own. some of our competitors are domiciled or operate in emerging markets and may have a lower cost structure than ours. we are confronted with new competitors in emerging markets which, although relatively small in size today, could become larger companies in their home markets. given the sometimes significant growth rates of these emerging markets, and in light of their cost advantage over developed markets, emerging market competitors could become more significant global competitors. taken together, the competitive forces present in our markets could harm our operating margins. we expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive prices. although we believe that our products and services have advantages over our competitors, we may not be able to realize and maintain these advantages. our ability to manufacture and deliver products and services may be disrupted. we have key manufacturing facilities located in china, europe, and the united states. many of our products are developed and manufactured at single locations, with limited alternate facilities. in addition, a large portion of our products and spare parts are distributed through regional logistics centers, in which certain logistics activities are outsourced to third parties. if we experience any significant disruption in these facilities for any reason, such as strikes or other labor unrest, power interruptions, fire, earthquakes, or other events beyond our control, we may be unable to satisfy customer demand for our products or services and lose sales. it may be expensive to resolve these issues, even though some of these risks are covered by insurance policies. more importantly, customers may switch to competitors and may not return to us even if we resolve the interruption. our business would suffer if we were unable to obtain supplies of material. we purchase most of our raw materials, components, and supplies from multiple suppliers. some items are purchased from a limited or single source of supply, however, and disruption of these sources could affect our ability to manufacture products. even where multiple sources of materials and components are available, the quality of the alternative materials, regulatory and contractual requirements to qualify materials for use in manufacturing, and the time required to establish new relationships with reliable suppliers could result in manufacturing delays and possible loss of sales. if we are unable to obtain materials or components for an extended time, this could damage our customer relationships and harm our financial condition or results of operations. our product development efforts may not produce commercially viable products in a timely manner. if we do not introduce new products and enhancements, our products could become technologically obsolete over time, which would harm our operating results. to remain competitive, we must continue to 17 table of contents make significant investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and customer service and support. we cannot be sure that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments. in developing new products, we may be required to make substantial investments before we can determine their commercial viability. as a result, we may not be successful in developing new products and we may never realize the benefits of our research and development activities. a prolonged downturn or additional consolidation in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and chemical industries could adversely affect our operating results. a reduction in the capital resources or government funding of our customers could reduce our sales. our products are used extensively in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and chemical industries. consolidation in these industries hurt our sales in prior years. recently, there has been an increase in consolidation within these industries. a prolonged economic downturn or additional consolidation in any of these industries could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, the capital spending policies of our customers in these and other industries are based on a variety of factors we cannot control, including the resources available for purchasing equipment, the spending priorities among various types of equipment, and policies regarding capital expenditures. any decrease or delay in capital spending by our customers would cause our revenues to decline and could harm our profitability. a decline in government funding of research or education could reduce some customers' ability to purchase our products. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could impact our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and various other foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to allocation of expenses among different jurisdictions. our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction, changes in tax laws or tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and material adjustments from tax audits. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the u.s., is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in the u.s. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. our tax expense could increase as a result of a changing application of tax law. as a result of the current uncertain financial and economic environment, governments are facing greater pressure on public finances, which could lead to their more aggressively applying existing tax laws and regulations. governments also periodically change tax laws and regulations. any changes in corporate income tax rates or regulations, on repatriation of dividends or capital, or on transfer pricing, as well as changes in the interpretation of existing tax laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, could adversely affect our cash flow and increase our overall tax burden, which would negatively affect our profitability. we face risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties that we do not control, which could harm our business. we sell some products through third parties, including distributors and value-added resellers. this exposes us to various risks, including competitive pressure, concentration of sales volumes, credit risks, and compliance risks. we may rely on one or a few key distributors for a product or market, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue and net earnings. distributors may also face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivables. violations of the fcpa or similar anti-bribery laws by distributors or other third party intermediaries could materially 18 table of contents impact our business. risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position. a widespread outbreak of an illness or other health issue, terrorism attack, or other geopolitical crisis could negatively affect our business, making it more difficult and expensive to meet our obligations to our customers, and could result in reduced demand from our customers. in recent years, a number of countries have experienced outbreaks of the h1n1 influenza (swine flu) or, in the asia pacific region, outbreaks of sars and/or avian influenza (bird flu), and more recently, ebola outbreaks in parts of africa. despite the implementation of certain precautions, we are susceptible to such outbreaks. also, our global operations are susceptible to global events, including natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, and threats to political stability. as a result of such events, businesses can be shut down and individuals can become ill, quarantined, or otherwise unable to work. these events, particularly in north america, europe, china, or other locations significant to our operations, could adversely affect general commercial activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, or prospects. if our operations are curtailed, we may need to seek alternate sources of supply for services and staff and these alternate sources may be more expensive. alternate sources may not be available or may result in delays in shipments to our customers, each of which would affect our results of operations. in addition, a curtailment of our product design operations could result in delays in the development of new products. further, if our customers' businesses are similarly affected, they might delay or reduce purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we may face risks associated with future acquisitions. we may pursue acquisitions of complementary product lines, technologies, or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in integrating the acquired operations, technologies, and products; diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and potential departures of key employees of the acquired company. if we successfully identify acquisitions in the future, completing such acquisitions may result in new issuances of our stock that may be dilutive to current owners, increases in our debt and contingent liabilities, and additional amortization expense related to intangible assets. any of these acquisition-related risks could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. larger companies have identified life sciences and instruments as businesses they will consider entering, which could change the competitive dynamics of these markets. in addition, we may not be able to identify, successfully complete, or integrate potential acquisitions in the future. even if we can do so, we cannot be sure that these acquisitions will have a positive impact on our business or operating results. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights, or if we infringe or misappropriate the proprietary rights of others, our operating results could be harmed. our success depends on our ability to obtain, maintain, and enforce patents on our technology, maintain our trademarks, and protect our trade secrets. our patents may not provide complete protection, may expire, and competitors may develop similar products that are not covered by our patents. our patents may also be challenged by third parties and invalidated or narrowed. we may experience a decline in sales and/or profitability if any of these things occur. competitors sometimes seek to take advantage of our trademarks or brands in ways that may create customer confusion or weaken our brand. improper use or disclosure of our trade secrets may still occur. we may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. the cost of any litigation could affect our profitability regardless of the outcome, and management attention could be diverted. if we are unsuccessful in such litigation, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing activity, and/or 19 table of contents obtain a license. if we fail to obtain a required license, we may be unable to sell some of our products, which could result in a decline in our revenues. departures of key employees could impair our operations. key employees could leave the company. if any key employees stopped working for us, our operations could be harmed. important r&amp;d personnel may leave and join competitors, which could substantially delay or hinder ongoing development projects. we have no key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our senior executives. we may be adversely affected by environmental laws and regulations. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations and incur expenditures in complying with environmental laws and regulations. we are currently involved in, or have potential liability with respect to, the remediation of past contamination in various facilities. in addition, some of our facilities are or have been in operation for many decades and may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are hazardous or may be considered hazardous in the future. these sites and disposal sites owned by others to which we sent waste may in the future be identified as contaminated and require remediation. accordingly, it is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that may harm our results of operations or financial condition. we may be adversely affected by regulations and market expectations related to sourcing and our supply chain, including conflict minerals. in august 2012, the sec adopted disclosures and reporting requirements for companies whose products contain certain minerals and their derivatives, namely tin, tantalum, tungsten, or gold, known as conflict minerals. companies must report annually whether or not such minerals originate from the democratic republic of congo (drc) and adjoining countries and in some cases to perform extensive due diligence on their supply chains for such minerals. the implementation of these requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability, and pricing of materials used in the manufacturing of our products. in addition, we have incurred additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including cost related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals used in our products. since our supply chain is complex, the due diligence procedures that we implement may not enable us to ascertain with sufficient certainty the origins for these minerals or determine that these minerals are drc conflict free, which may harm our reputation. we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that our products be certified as drc conflict free, which could harm our relationships with these customers and/or lead to a loss of revenue. these requirements also could have the effect of limiting the pool of suppliers from which we source these minerals, and we may not be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at prices similar to the past, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. future laws, regulations, or customers may make additional demands on supply chain transparency. these demands can include more transparency into the activities of our suppliers with regards to human rights and sustainable sourcing. we have significant protections in place to ensure we partner with responsible suppliers, but increased demands may cause us to incur increased supply chain costs. if we can't satisfy customers' demands, we may lose business, and if we can't meet new regulatory requirements we may have to alter our sourcing at increased expense. we may be adversely affected by failure to comply with regulations of governmental agencies or by the adoption of new regulations. our products are subject to regulation by governmental agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of activities relating to our products, including design and development, product safety, labeling, 20 table of contents manufacturing, promotion, sales, and distribution. we also operate a global business and are subject to various laws and regulations in the many markets we do business, including those relating to competition, employment and labor practices, international trade, and corruption. if we fail to comply with these regulations, or if new regulations are adopted that substantially change existing practice or impose new burdens, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution. in addition, we could be subject to investigation costs, reputational harm, fines, criminal prosecution, and other damages that could impact our profitability. we may experience impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets. as of december 31, 2015 , our consolidated balance sheet included goodwill of $446.3 million and other intangible assets of $115.3 million . our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment expense. we make estimates and assumptions in valuing such intangible assets that affect our consolidated financial statements. in accordance with u.s. gaap, our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. the evaluation is based on valuation models that estimate fair value. in preparing the valuation models, we consider a number of factors, including operating results, business plans, economic conditions, future cash flows, and transactions and market data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in applying them to the impairment analyses. the significant estimates and assumptions within our fair value models include sales growth, controllable cost growth, perpetual growth, effective tax rates, and discount rates. our assessments to date have indicated that there has been no impairment of these assets. should any of these estimates or assumptions change, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, including from a prolonged economic slowdown, we may experience a triggering event that requires a new fair value assessment for our reporting units, possibly prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and resulting analysis could result in impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets if the fair value estimate declines below the carrying value. our amortization expense related to intangible assets with finite lives may materially change should our estimates of their useful lives change. we have debt and we may incur substantially more debt, which could affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities. we have debt and we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. as of december 31, 2015 , we had total indebtedness of approximately $492.6 million , net of cash of $98.9 million . our debt instruments allow us to incur substantial additional indebtedness. the existence and magnitude of our debt could have important consequences. for example, it could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt instruments; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development, and other corporate requirements; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in raw material costs; limit our ability to respond to business opportunities; limit our ability to borrow additional funds, which may be necessary; and subject us to financial and other restrictive covenants, which, if we fail to comply with these covenants and our failure is not waived or cured, could result in an event of default under our debt instruments. 21 table of contents the agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. the note purchase agreements governing our notes and the agreements governing our credit facility contain covenants imposing various restrictions on our business. these restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. the restrictions these covenants place on us include limitations on our ability to incur liens and consolidate, merge, sell, or lease all or substantially all of our assets. our credit facility and the note purchase agreements governing our senior notes also require us to meet certain financial ratios. our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including economic, financial, and industry conditions. the breach of any covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the note purchase agreements governing the senior notes and/or under our credit facility. an event of default under the agreements governing our debt would permit holders of our debt to declare all amounts owed to them under such agreements to be immediately due and payable. acceleration of our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable to make interest payments on the senior notes and repay the principal amount of the senior notes. the lenders under our credit agreement may be unable to meet their funding commitments, reducing the amount of our borrowing capacity. we have a revolving credit facility outstanding under which the company and certain of its subsidiaries may borrow up to $800 million . our credit facility is provided by a group of 13 financial institutions, which individually have between 2% and 14% of the total funding commitment. at december 31, 2015 , we had borrowings of $90.4 million outstanding under our credit facility. our ability to borrow further funds under our credit facility is subject to the various lenders' financial condition and ability to make funds available. even though the financial institutions are contractually obligated to lend funds, if one or more of the lenders encounters financial difficulties or goes bankrupt, such lenders may be unable to meet their obligations. this could result in us being unable to borrow the full $800 million amount available. we make forward-looking statements, and actual events or results may differ materially from these statements because assumptions we have made prove incorrect due to market conditions in our industries or other factors. we provide forward-looking statements both in our filings with the sec and orally in connection with our quarterly earnings calls, including guidance on anticipated earnings per share. you should not rely on forward-looking statements to predict our actual results. our actual results or performance may be materially different than reflected in forward-looking statements because of various risks and uncertainties. our forward-looking statements may not be accurate or complete, and we do not intend to update or revise them in light of actual results. new risks also periodically arise. please consider the risks and factors that could cause our results to differ materially from what is described in our forward-looking statements. see in particular factors affecting our future operating results and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. in providing guidance on our future earnings, we evaluate our budgets, strategic plans, and other factors relating to our business. we make assumptions about external factors, including the following: the outlook for our end markets and the global economy; the impact of external factors on our competition; the financial position of our customers; the estimated costs of purchasing materials; developments in personnel costs; and rates for currency exchange, particularly between the swiss franc and the euro. 22 table of contents some of these assumptions may prove to be incorrect over time. for example, although no single customer accounts for more than 1% of our revenues, if a number of our customers experienced significant deteriorations in their financial positions concurrently, it could have an impact on our results of operations. some of our key internal assumptions include the following: our ability to implement our business strategy; the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs such as our spinnaker and market penetration initiatives; our ability to develop and deliver innovative products and services; the continued growth of our sales in emerging markets; our ability to implement price increases as forecasted; and the effectiveness of our cost saving initiatives. these internal assumptions may also prove to be incorrect over time. for example, with respect to our ability to realize our planned price increases without disturbing our customer base in core markets, in certain markets, such as emerging markets, price tends to be a more significant factor in customers' decisions to purchase our products. furthermore, we can have no assurance that our cost reduction programs will generate adequate cost savings. additionally, it may become necessary to take additional restructuring actions resulting in additional restructuring costs. we believe our current assumptions are reasonable and prudent for planning purposes. however, should any of these assumptions prove to be incorrect, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, we may experience results different than our projections. our ability to generate and repatriate cash depends in part on factors beyond our control. our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund our share repurchase program, planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts depends on our ability to generate and repatriate cash in the future. this is subject to factors beyond our control, including general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, governmental, and other factors described in this section. we cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. we cannot ensure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and the senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our ability to fund our share repurchase program is also dependent on our ability to repatriate our international cash flows. changes in governmental cash repatriation policies, restrictions, or tax laws could impair our ability to continue our share repurchase program. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk discussion of this item is included in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 13 risk factors factors affecting our future operating results we are subject to certain risks associated with our international operations and have a significant concentration of business in china. we conduct business in many countries, including emerging markets in asia, latin america, and eastern europe, and these operations represent a significant portion of our sales and earnings. for example, our chinese operations account for 15% of sales to external customers, approximately 30% of our global production, and 32% of total segment profit during 2016 . in addition to the currency risks discussed below, international operations pose other substantial risks and problems for us. including the following: local tariffs and trade barriers; countries may revise or alter their respective legal and regulatory requirements; difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and/or mandatory salary increases; credit risks arising from financial difficulties facing local customers and distributors; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; nationalization of private enterprises which may result in the confiscation of assets, as we hold significant assets around the world in the form of property, plant, and equipment, inventory, and accounts receivable, as well as $103 million of cash at december 31, 2016 in our chinese subsidiaries; restrictions on investments and/or limitations regarding foreign ownership; adverse tax consequences, including tax disputes, imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; other uncertain local economic, political, and social conditions, including hyper-inflationary conditions or periods of low or no productivity growth; and credit tightening or reduction in credit availability for local customers. we must also comply with regulations regarding the conversion and repatriation of funds earned in local currencies. for example, we need government approval to convert earnings from our operations in china into other currencies and to repatriate these funds. if we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in using cash generated in china. we are required to comply with various import, export control, and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners, and other persons, including in certain cases dealings with or between our employees and subsidiaries. in certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services, and technologies, and in other circumstances, we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting a controlled item. we follow all relevant laws and continue to do business in russia. sanctions imposed on business in russia may affect the economy and our business in russia. in addition, failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services, and damage to our reputation. growth in emerging markets can be volatile. for example, during 2015 china, russia, and brazil accounted for 18% of our sales to external customers and declined 11% in local currencies as customer investments slowed due to a variety of economic factors. china, our largest emerging market country, had improved market conditions in 2016 but market uncertainties remain due to overcapacity in certain industries and ongoing volatility in credit availability. 13 table of contents we sell primarily to companies in developed countries. an economic downturn in these countries could hurt our operating results. most of our business is derived from companies in developed countries. economic instability in many parts of the world, including sovereign debt levels in the european union and the united states, continues to be a situation that we are monitoring closely. a potential financial crisis on financial institutions globally would likely have an adverse effect on the global capital markets and our business. in addition, if developed countries were to experience slow growth or recession, we could see the following effects: a drop in demand for our products; companies being unable to finance their businesses; difficulty in obtaining materials and supplies; potential devaluation and/or impairment of assets; difficulty in collecting accounts receivables; an increase in accounts receivable write-offs; and greater foreign exchange rate volatility affecting our profitability and cash flow. economic downturns or recessions adversely affect our operating results because our customers often decrease or delay capital expenditures. customers may also purchase lower-cost products made by competitors and not resume purchasing our products even after economic conditions improve. these conditions would reduce our revenues and profitability. currency fluctuations affect our operating profits. our earnings are affected by changing exchange rates. we are most sensitive to changes in the exchange rates between the swiss franc, euro, and u.s. dollar. we have more swiss franc expenses than we do swiss franc sales because we develop and manufacture products in switzerland that we sell globally and have a number of corporate functions located in switzerland. when the swiss franc strengthens against our other trading currencies, particularly the u.s. dollar and euro, our earnings go down. we also have significantly more sales in the euro than we do expenses. when the euro weakens against the u.s. dollar and swiss franc, our earnings also go down. in january 2015, the swiss national bank abandoned its exchange rate floor of 1.20 swiss francs per euro. the swiss national bank's abandonment of the euro exchange rate floor resulted in an immediate strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro and u.s. dollar. excluding the effects of any foreign currency hedging contracts, we estimate a 1% strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro would reduce our earnings before tax by approximately $1.5 million to $1.7 million annually. we also estimate a 1% strengthening of the swiss franc against the u.s. dollar would reduce our earnings before tax by approximately $0.2 million annually in addition to the previously mentioned strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro impact. we also conduct business throughout the world, including asia pacific, the united kingdom, eastern europe, latin america, and canada. fluctuations in these currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar can also affect our operating results. the most significant of these currency exposures is the chinese renminbi. the impact on our earnings before tax of the chinese renminbi weakening 1% against the u.s. dollar is a reduction of approximately $0.4 million to $0.6 million annually. in 2016, the u.s. dollar strengthened against most of the major currencies throughout the world. the strength of the u.s. dollar may have a significant negative impact on the company's financial performance in the future. in addition to the effects of exchange rate movements on operating profits, our debt levels can fluctuate due to changes in exchange rates, particularly between the u.s. dollar, the swiss franc, and euro. based on our outstanding debt at december 31, 2016 , we estimate that a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against 14 table of contents the currencies in which our debt is denominated would result in an increase of approximately $23.0 million in the reported u.s. dollar value of our debt. concerns regarding the eurozone debt levels and market perception concerning the instability of the euro could affect our operating profits. we conduct business in many countries that use the euro as their currency (the eurozone). concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations. in addition, concerns in recent years have existed regarding the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual eurozone countries. these concerns could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more eurozone countries or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely. should the euro dissolve entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at such time. these potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations. in addition, concerns over the effect of this financial crisis on financial institutions in europe and globally could have an adverse effect on the global capital markets and, more specifically, on the ability of our company, our customers, suppliers, and lenders to finance their respective businesses, to access liquidity at acceptable financing costs, if at all, on the availability of supplies and materials, and on the demand for our products. we are vulnerable to system failures and data loss risks, including those that may be related to cyber security attacks, which could harm our business. we rely on our technology infrastructure to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, support our customers, fulfill orders, and bill, collect, and make payments. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist or hacker attacks, malicious employees or employee negligence, computer viruses, ransomware, and other events. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data, or reduced functionality. a significant number of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in interruptions in our services, fraudulent loss of assets, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, which could harm our reputation and financial condition. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our services or data loss as a result of system failures. customers may use our products to generate or manage confidential information. though we take steps to ensure our products are secure, it is possible customers could lose confidential information stored on our products. if a customer alleges security failures in our products cause or contribute to a loss, we could face harm to our reputation and financial condition and legal liability. we also are in the process of implementing a program to globalize our business processes and information technology systems that includes the implementation of a company-wide enterprise resource planning system. this has been proceeding on a staggered basis over several years with the initial go-live rollout having occurred in 2010. we have implemented the program in our swiss, chinese, u.k., and certain u.s. and german operations. we estimate that we have approximately two-thirds of the program implemented, as measured in users. if the implementation is flawed, we could suffer interruptions in operations and customer-facing activities that could harm our reputation and financial condition, or cause us to lose data, experience reduced functionality, or have delays in reporting financial information. it may take us longer to implement the program than we have planned, and the project may cost us more than we 15 table of contents have estimated, either of which would negatively impact our ability to generate cost savings or other efficiencies. in addition, the implementation will increase our reliance on a single information technology system, which would have greater consequences should we experience a system disruption. we operate in highly competitive markets, and it may be difficult for us to preserve operating margins, gain market share, and maintain a technological advantage. our markets are highly competitive. many are fragmented both geographically and by application, particularly the industrial and food retailing markets. as a result, we face numerous regional or specialized competitors, many of which are well established in their markets. in addition, some of our competitors are divisions of larger companies with potentially greater financial and other resources than our own. there has also been an increase in the consolidation of precision instrument companies in recent years. any consolidation within our market could result in competitors becoming larger and having greater financial and other resources than our own. some of our competitors are domiciled or operate in emerging markets and may have a lower cost structure than ours. we are confronted with new competitors in emerging markets which, although relatively small in size today, could become larger companies in their home markets. given the sometimes significant growth rates of these emerging markets, and in light of their cost advantage over developed markets, emerging market competitors could become more significant global competitors. taken together, the competitive forces present in our markets could harm our operating margins. we expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive prices. although we believe that our products and services have advantages over our competitors, we may not be able to realize and maintain these advantages. our ability to manufacture and deliver products and services may be disrupted. we have key manufacturing facilities located in china, europe, and the united states. many of our products are developed and manufactured at single locations, with limited alternate facilities. in addition, a large portion of our products and spare parts are distributed through regional logistics centers, in which certain logistics activities are outsourced to third parties. if we experience any significant disruption in these facilities for any reason, such as strikes or other labor unrest, power interruptions, fire, earthquakes, or other events beyond our control, we may be unable to satisfy customer demand for our products or services and lose sales. it may be expensive to resolve these issues, even though some of these risks are covered by insurance policies. more importantly, customers may switch to competitors and may not return to us even if we resolve the interruption. our business would suffer if we were unable to obtain supplies of material. we purchase most of our raw materials, components, and supplies from multiple suppliers. some items are purchased from a limited or single source of supply, however, and disruption of these sources could affect our ability to manufacture products. even where multiple sources of materials and components are available, the quality of the alternative materials, regulatory and contractual requirements to qualify materials for use in manufacturing, and the time required to establish new relationships with reliable suppliers could result in manufacturing delays and possible loss of sales. if we are unable to obtain materials or components for an extended time, this could damage our customer relationships and harm our financial condition or results of operations. our product development efforts may not produce commercially viable products in a timely manner. if we do not introduce new products and enhancements, our products could become technologically obsolete over time, which would harm our operating results. to remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and customer service and 16 table of contents support. we cannot be sure that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments. in developing new products, we may be required to make substantial investments before we can determine their commercial viability. as a result, we may not be successful in developing new products and we may never realize the benefits of our research and development activities. a prolonged downturn or additional consolidation in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and chemical industries could adversely affect our operating results. a reduction in the capital resources or government funding of our customers could reduce our sales. our products are used extensively in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and chemical industries. consolidation in these industries hurt our sales in prior years. in recent years, there has been an increase in consolidation within these industries. a prolonged economic downturn or additional consolidation in any of these industries could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, the capital spending policies of our customers in these and other industries are based on a variety of factors we cannot control, including the resources available for purchasing equipment, the spending priorities among various types of equipment, and policies regarding capital expenditures. any decrease or delay in capital spending by our customers would cause our revenues to decline and could harm our profitability. a decline in government funding of research or education could reduce some customers' ability to purchase our products. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or additional income tax liabilities could impact our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and various other jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to allocation of expenses among different jurisdictions. our effective tax rates and tax obligations could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or rates, changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and material adjustments from tax audits. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the u.s., is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in the u.s. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. our tax expense and tax obligations could increase as a result of a changing application of tax law. as a result of the current uncertain financial and economic environment, governments are facing greater pressure on public finances, which could lead to their more aggressively applying existing tax laws and regulations. governments also periodically change tax laws and regulations. any changes in corporate income tax rates or regulations, on repatriation of dividends, earnings or capital, or on transfer pricing, as well as changes in the interpretation of existing tax laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, could adversely affect our cash flow and increase our overall tax burden, which would negatively affect our profitability. we face risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties that we do not control, which could harm our business. we sell some products through third parties, including distributors and value-added resellers. this exposes us to various risks, including competitive pressure, concentration of sales volumes, credit risks, and compliance risks. we may rely on one or a few key distributors for a product or market, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue and net earnings. distributors may also face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivables. violations of the fcpa or similar anti-bribery laws by distributors or other third party intermediaries could materially 17 table of contents impact our business. risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position. a terrorism attack, other geopolitical crisis, or widespread outbreak of an illness or other health issue, could negatively affect our business, making it more difficult and expensive to meet our obligations to our customers, and could result in reduced demand from our customers. our global operations are susceptible to global events, including acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, political instability and natural disasters. also, in recent years, a number of countries have experienced outbreaks of the h1n1 influenza (swine flu) or, in the asia pacific region, outbreaks of sars and/or avian influenza (bird flu), and more recently, ebola outbreaks in parts of africa. despite the implementation of certain precautions, we are susceptible to such outbreaks. as a result of such events, businesses can be shut down and individuals can become ill, quarantined, or otherwise unable to work. these events, particularly in north america, europe, china, or other locations significant to our operations, could adversely affect general commercial activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, or prospects. if our operations are curtailed, we may need to seek alternate sources of supply for services and staff and these alternate sources may be more expensive. alternate sources may not be available or may result in delays in shipments to our customers, each of which would affect our results of operations. in addition, a curtailment of our product design operations could result in delays in the development of new products. further, if our customers' businesses are similarly affected, they might delay or reduce purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we may face risks associated with future acquisitions. we may pursue acquisitions of complementary product lines, technologies, or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in integrating the acquired operations, technologies, and products; diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and potential departures of key employees of the acquired company. if we successfully identify acquisitions in the future, completing such acquisitions may result in new issuances of our stock that may be dilutive to current owners, increases in our debt and contingent liabilities, and additional amortization expense related to intangible assets. any of these acquisition-related risks could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. larger companies have identified life sciences and instruments as businesses they will consider entering, which could change the competitive dynamics of these markets. in addition, we may not be able to identify, successfully complete, or integrate potential acquisitions in the future. even if we can do so, we cannot be sure that these acquisitions will have a positive impact on our business or operating results. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights, or if we infringe or misappropriate the proprietary rights of others, our operating results could be harmed. our success depends on our ability to obtain, maintain, and enforce patents on our technology, maintain our trademarks, and protect our trade secrets. our patents may not provide complete protection, may expire, and competitors may develop similar products that are not covered by our patents. our patents may also be challenged by third parties and invalidated or narrowed. we may experience a decline in sales and/or profitability if any of these things occur. competitors sometimes seek to take advantage of our trademarks or brands in ways that may create customer confusion or weaken our brand. improper use or disclosure of our trade secrets may still occur. we may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. the cost of any litigation could affect our profitability regardless of the outcome, and management attention could be diverted. if we are unsuccessful in such litigation, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing activity, and/or 18 table of contents obtain a license. if we fail to obtain a required license, we may be unable to sell some of our products, which could result in a decline in our revenues. departures of key employees could impair our operations. key employees could leave the company. if any key employees stopped working for us, our operations could be harmed. important r&amp;d personnel may leave and join competitors, which could substantially delay or hinder ongoing development projects. we have no key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our senior executives. we may be adversely affected by environmental laws and regulations. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations and incur expenditures in complying with environmental laws and regulations. we are currently involved in, or have potential liability with respect to, the remediation of past contamination in various facilities. in addition, some of our facilities are or have been in operation for many decades and may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are hazardous or may be considered hazardous in the future. these sites and disposal sites owned by others to which we sent waste may in the future be identified as contaminated and require remediation. accordingly, it is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that may harm our results of operations or financial condition. we may be adversely affected by regulations and market expectations related to sourcing and our supply chain, including conflict minerals. the sec has adopted disclosures and reporting requirements for companies whose products contain certain minerals and their derivatives, namely tin, tantalum, tungsten, or gold, known as conflict minerals. companies must report annually whether or not such minerals originate from the democratic republic of congo (drc) and adjoining countries and in some cases to perform extensive due diligence on their supply chains for such minerals. these requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability, and pricing of materials used in the manufacturing of our products. in addition, we have incurred additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including cost related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals used in our products. since our supply chain is complex, the due diligence procedures that we have implemented may not enable us to ascertain with sufficient certainty the origins for these minerals or determine that these minerals are drc conflict free, which may harm our reputation. we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that our products be certified as drc conflict free, which could harm our relationships with these customers and/or lead to a loss of revenue. these requirements also could have the effect of limiting the pool of suppliers from which we source these minerals, and we may not be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at prices similar to the past, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. future laws, regulations, or customers may make additional demands on supply chain transparency. these demands can include more transparency into the activities of our suppliers with regards to human rights and sustainable sourcing. we have significant protections in place to ensure we partner with responsible suppliers, but increased demands may cause us to incur increased supply chain costs. if we can't satisfy customers' demands, we may lose business, and if we can't meet new regulatory requirements we may have to alter our sourcing at increased expense. 19 table of contents we may be adversely affected by failure to comply with regulations of governmental agencies or by the adoption of new regulations. changes in political leadership in the united states and certain european countries may also impact global trade or create uncertainty impacting our business. our products are subject to regulation by governmental agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of activities relating to our products, including design and development, product safety, labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales, and distribution. we also operate a global business and are subject to various laws and regulations in the many markets we do business, including those relating to competition, employment and labor practices, international trade, and corruption. if we fail to comply with these regulations, or if new regulations are adopted that substantially change existing practice or impose new burdens, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution. in addition, we could be subject to investigation costs, reputational harm, fines, criminal prosecution, and other damages that could impact our profitability. changes in political leadership in the united states and certain european countries may impact global trade or create uncertainty. in times of uncertainty, some customers delay investments or defer normal replacement cycles, which could have an adverse impact on our sales. we may experience impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets. as of december 31, 2016 , our consolidated balance sheet included goodwill of $476.4 million and other intangible assets of $167.1 million . our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment expense. we make estimates and assumptions in valuing such intangible assets that affect our consolidated financial statements. in accordance with u.s. gaap, our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. the evaluation is based on valuation models that estimate fair value. in preparing the valuation models, we consider a number of factors, including operating results, business plans, economic conditions, future cash flows, and transactions and market data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in applying them to the impairment analyses. the significant estimates and assumptions within our fair value models include sales growth, controllable cost growth, perpetual growth, effective tax rates, and discount rates. our assessments to date have indicated that there has been no impairment of these assets. should any of these estimates or assumptions change, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, including from a prolonged economic slowdown, we may experience a triggering event that requires a new fair value assessment for our reporting units, possibly prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and resulting analysis could result in impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets if the fair value estimate declines below the carrying value. our amortization expense related to intangible assets with finite lives may materially change should our estimates of their useful lives change. we have debt and we may incur substantially more debt, which could affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities. we have debt and we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. as of december 31, 2016 , we had total indebtedness of approximately $735.4 million , net of cash of $158.7 million . our debt instruments allow us to incur substantial additional indebtedness. 20 table of contents the existence and magnitude of our debt could have important consequences. for example, it could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt instruments; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development, and other corporate requirements; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in raw material costs; limit our ability to respond to business opportunities; limit our ability to borrow additional funds, which may be necessary; and subject us to financial and other restrictive covenants, which, if we fail to comply with these covenants and our failure is not waived or cured, could result in an event of default under our debt instruments. the agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. the note purchase agreements governing our notes and the agreements governing our credit facility contain covenants imposing various restrictions on our business. these restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. the restrictions these covenants place on us include limitations on our ability to incur liens and consolidate, merge, sell, or lease all or substantially all of our assets. our credit facility and the note purchase agreements governing our senior notes also require us to meet certain financial ratios. our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including economic, financial, and industry conditions. the breach of any covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the note purchase agreements governing the senior notes and/or under our credit facility. an event of default under the agreements governing our debt would permit holders of our debt to declare all amounts owed to them under such agreements to be immediately due and payable. acceleration of our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable to make interest payments on the senior notes and repay the principal amount of the senior notes. the lenders under our credit agreement may be unable to meet their funding commitments, reducing the amount of our borrowing capacity. we have a revolving credit facility outstanding under which the company and certain of its subsidiaries may borrow up to $800 million . our credit facility is provided by a group of 13 financial institutions, which individually have between 2% and 14% of the total funding commitment. at december 31, 2016 , we had borrowings of $395.2 million outstanding under our credit facility. our ability to borrow further funds under our credit facility is subject to the various lenders' financial condition and ability to make funds available. even though the financial institutions are contractually obligated to lend funds, if one or more of the lenders encounters financial difficulties or goes bankrupt, such lenders may be unable to meet their obligations. this could result in us being unable to borrow the full $800 million amount available. we make forward-looking statements, and actual events or results may differ materially from these statements because assumptions we have made prove incorrect due to market conditions in our industries or other factors. we provide forward-looking statements both in our filings with the sec and orally in connection with our quarterly earnings calls, including guidance on anticipated earnings per share. you should not rely on forward-looking statements to predict our actual results. our actual results or performance may be materially different than reflected in forward-looking statements because of various risks and uncertainties. our forward-looking statements may not be accurate or complete, and we do not intend to update or revise them in light of actual results. new risks also periodically arise. please consider the risks and factors that could cause our results to differ materially from what is described in our forward-looking 21 table of contents statements. see in particular factors affecting our future operating results and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. in providing guidance on our future earnings, we evaluate our budgets, strategic plans, and other factors relating to our business. we make assumptions about external factors, including the following: the outlook for our end markets and the global economy; the impact of external factors on our competition; the financial position of our customers; the estimated costs of purchasing materials; developments in personnel costs; our estimated income tax expense; and rates for currency exchange, particularly between the swiss franc and the euro. some of these assumptions may prove to be incorrect over time. for example, although no single end-customer accounts for more than 1% of our revenues, if a number of our customers experienced significant deteriorations in their financial positions concurrently, it could have an impact on our results of operations. some of our key internal assumptions include the following: our ability to implement our business strategy; our ability to implement price increases as forecasted; the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs such as our spinnaker and market penetration and field turbo initiatives; the effectiveness of our programs to improve our service business, including growth, globalization and productivity initiatives; our ability to develop and deliver innovative products and services; the continued growth of our sales in emerging markets; and the effectiveness of productivity and cost saving initiatives. these internal assumptions may also prove to be incorrect over time. for example, with respect to our ability to realize our planned price increases without disturbing our customer base in core markets, in certain markets, such as emerging markets, price tends to be a more significant factor in customers' decisions to purchase our products. furthermore, we can have no assurance that our cost reduction programs will generate adequate cost savings. additionally, it may become necessary to take additional restructuring actions resulting in additional restructuring costs. we believe our current assumptions are reasonable and prudent for planning purposes. however, should any of these assumptions prove to be incorrect, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, we may experience results different than our projections. our ability to generate and repatriate cash depends in part on factors beyond our control. our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund our share repurchase program, planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts depends on our ability to generate and repatriate cash in the future. this is subject to factors beyond our control, including general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, governmental, and other factors described in this section. we cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. we cannot ensure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and the senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 22 table of contents our ability to fund our share repurchase program is also dependent on our ability to repatriate our international cash flows. changes in governmental cash repatriation policies, restrictions, or tax laws could impair our ability to continue our share repurchase program. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk discussion of this item is included in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 14 risk factors factors affecting our future operating results we are subject to certain risks associated with our international operations and have a significant concentration of business in china. we conduct business in many countries, including emerging markets in asia, latin america, and eastern europe, and these operations represent a significant portion of our sales and earnings. for example, our chinese operations accounted for 17% of sales to external customers, approximately 30% of our global production, and 35% of total segment profit during 2017 . in addition to the currency risks discussed below, international operations pose other substantial risks and problems for us, including the following: local tariffs and trade barriers; countries may revise or alter their respective legal and regulatory requirements; difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and/or mandatory salary increases; credit risks arising from financial difficulties facing local customers and distributors; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; nationalization of private enterprises which may result in the confiscation of assets, as we hold significant assets around the world in the form of property, plant, and equipment, inventory, and accounts receivable, as well as $101 million of cash at december 31, 2017 in our chinese subsidiaries; restrictions on investments and/or limitations regarding foreign ownership; adverse tax consequences, including tax disputes, imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; other uncertain local economic, political, and social conditions, including hyper-inflationary conditions or periods of low or no productivity growth; and credit tightening or reduction in credit availability for local customers. we must also comply with regulations regarding the conversion and repatriation of funds earned in local currencies. for example, we need government approval to convert earnings from our operations in china into other currencies and to repatriate these funds. if we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in using cash generated in china. we are required to comply with various import, export control, and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners, and other persons, including in certain cases dealings with or between our employees and subsidiaries. in certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services, and technologies, and in other circumstances, we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting a controlled item. we follow all relevant laws and continue to do business in russia. sanctions imposed on business in russia may affect the economy and our business in russia. in addition, failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services, and damage to our reputation. growth in emerging markets, especially china, can be volatile. while we experienced strong growth in china in 2017, we have also experienced sales declines in recent years and we may see volatility in the future. 14 table of contents we sell primarily to companies in developed countries. an economic downturn in these countries could hurt our operating results. most of our business is derived from companies in developed countries. economic instability in many parts of the world, including sovereign debt levels in the european union and the united states, continues to be a situation that we are monitoring closely. a potential financial crisis on financial institutions globally would likely have an adverse effect on the global capital markets and our business. in addition, if developed countries were to experience slow growth or recession, we could see the following effects: a drop in demand for our products; companies being unable to finance their businesses; difficulty in obtaining materials and supplies; potential devaluation and/or impairment of assets; difficulty in collecting accounts receivables; an increase in accounts receivable write-offs; and greater foreign exchange rate volatility affecting our profitability and cash flow. economic downturns or recessions adversely affect our operating results because our customers often decrease or delay capital expenditures. customers may also purchase lower-cost products made by competitors and not resume purchasing our products even after economic conditions improve. these conditions would reduce our revenues and profitability. currency fluctuations affect our operating profits. our earnings are affected by changing exchange rates. we are most sensitive to changes in the exchange rates between the swiss franc, euro, and u.s. dollar. we have more swiss franc expenses than we do swiss franc sales because we develop and manufacture products in switzerland that we sell globally and have a number of corporate functions located in switzerland. when the swiss franc strengthens against our other trading currencies, particularly the u.s. dollar and euro, our earnings go down. we also have significantly more sales in the euro than we do expenses. when the euro weakens against the u.s. dollar and swiss franc, our earnings also go down. we estimate a 1% strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro would reduce our earnings before tax by approximately $1.6 million to $1.8 million annually. we also conduct business throughout the world, including asia pacific, the united kingdom, eastern europe, latin america, and canada. fluctuations in these currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar can also affect our operating results. the most significant of these currency exposures is the chinese renminbi. the impact on our earnings before tax of the chinese renminbi weakening 1% against the u.s. dollar is a reduction of approximately $1.0 million to $1.2 million annually. in addition to the effects of exchange rate movements on operating profits, our debt levels can fluctuate due to changes in exchange rates, particularly between the u.s. dollar, the swiss franc, and euro. based on our outstanding debt at december 31, 2017 , we estimate that a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against the currencies in which our debt is denominated would result in an increase of approximately $25.9 million in the reported u.s. dollar value of our debt. 15 table of contents concerns regarding the eurozone debt levels and market perception concerning the instability of the euro could affect our operating profits. we conduct business in many countries that use the euro as their currency (the eurozone). concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations. in addition, concerns in recent years have existed regarding the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual eurozone countries. these concerns could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more eurozone countries or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely. should the euro dissolve entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at such time. these potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations. in addition, concerns over the effect of this financial crisis on financial institutions in europe and globally could have an adverse effect on the global capital markets and, more specifically, on the ability of our company, our customers, suppliers, and lenders to finance their respective businesses, to access liquidity at acceptable financing costs, if at all, on the availability of supplies and materials, and on the demand for our products. we are vulnerable to system failures and data loss risks, including those that may be related to cyber security attacks, which could harm our business. we rely on our technology infrastructure to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, support our customers, fulfill orders, and bill, collect, and make payments. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist or hacker attacks, malicious employees or employee negligence, computer viruses, ransomware, and other events. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data, or reduced functionality. a significant number of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in interruptions in our services, fraudulent loss of assets, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, which could harm our reputation and financial condition. our business interruption and cyber liability insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our services or data loss as a result of system failures. customers may use our products to generate or manage confidential information. though we take steps to ensure our products are secure, it is possible customers could lose confidential information stored on our products. if a customer alleges security failures in our products cause or contribute to a loss, we could face harm to our reputation and financial condition and legal liability. we also are in the process of implementing a program to globalize our business processes and information technology systems that includes the implementation of a company-wide enterprise resource planning system. this has been proceeding on a staggered basis over several years with the initial go-live rollout having occurred in 2010. we have implemented the program in our swiss, chinese, u.k., benelux, and certain u.s. and german operations. we estimate that we have approximately 75% of the program implemented, as measured in users. if the implementation is flawed, we could suffer interruptions in operations and customer-facing activities that could harm our reputation and financial condition or cause us to lose data, experience reduced functionality, or have delays in reporting financial information. it may take us longer to implement the program than we have planned, and the project may cost us more than we have estimated, either of which would negatively impact our ability to generate cost savings or other efficiencies. in addition, the implementation will increase our reliance on a single information technology system, which would have greater consequences should we experience a system disruption. 16 table of contents we operate in highly competitive markets, and it may be difficult for us to preserve operating margins, gain market share, and maintain a technological advantage. our markets are highly competitive. many are fragmented both geographically and by application, particularly the industrial and food retailing markets. as a result, we face numerous regional or specialized competitors, many of which are well established in their markets. in addition, some of our competitors are divisions of larger companies with potentially greater financial and other resources than our own. there has also been an increase in the consolidation of precision instrument companies in recent years. any consolidation within our market could result in competitors becoming larger and having greater financial and other resources than our own. some of our competitors are domiciled or operate in emerging markets and may have a lower cost structure than ours. we are confronted with new competitors in emerging markets which, although relatively small in size today, could become larger companies in their home markets. given the sometimes significant growth rates of these emerging markets, and in light of their cost advantage over developed markets, emerging market competitors could become more significant global competitors. taken together, the competitive forces present in our markets could harm our operating margins. we expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive prices. although we believe that our products and services have advantages over our competitors, we may not be able to realize and maintain these advantages. our ability to manufacture and deliver products and services may be disrupted. we have key manufacturing facilities located in china, europe, and the united states. many of our products are developed and manufactured at single locations, with limited alternate facilities. in addition, a large portion of our products and spare parts are distributed through regional logistics centers, in which certain logistics activities are outsourced to third parties. if we experience any significant disruption in these facilities for any reason, such as strikes or other labor unrest, power interruptions, fire, earthquakes, hurricanes, or other events beyond our control, we may be unable to satisfy customer demand for our products or services and lose sales. it may be expensive to resolve these issues, even though some of these risks are covered by insurance policies. more importantly, customers may switch to competitors and may not return to us even if we resolve the interruption. our business would suffer if we were unable to obtain supplies of material. we purchase most of our raw materials, components, and supplies from multiple suppliers. some items are purchased from a limited or single source of supply, however, and disruption of these sources could affect our ability to manufacture products. even where multiple sources of materials and components are available, the quality of the alternative materials, regulatory and contractual requirements to qualify materials for use in manufacturing, and the time required to establish new relationships with reliable suppliers could result in manufacturing delays and possible loss of sales. if we are unable to obtain materials or components for an extended time, this could damage our customer relationships and harm our financial condition or results of operations. our product development efforts may not produce commercially viable products in a timely manner. if we do not introduce new products and enhancements, our products could become technologically obsolete over time, which would harm our operating results. to remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and customer service and support. we cannot be sure that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments. in developing new products, we may be required to make substantial investments before we can determine 17 table of contents their commercial viability. as a result, we may not be successful in developing new products and we may never realize the benefits of our research and development activities. a prolonged downturn or additional consolidation in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and chemical industries could adversely affect our operating results. a reduction in the capital resources or government funding of our customers could reduce our sales. our products are used extensively in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and chemical industries. consolidation in these industries hurt our sales in prior years. in recent years, there has been an increase in consolidation within these industries. a prolonged economic downturn or additional consolidation in any of these industries could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, the capital spending policies of our customers in these and other industries are based on a variety of factors we cannot control, including the resources available for purchasing equipment, the spending priorities among various types of equipment, and policies regarding capital expenditures. any decrease or delay in capital spending by our customers would cause our revenues to decline and could harm our profitability. a decline in government funding of research or education could reduce some customers' ability to purchase our products. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or additional income tax liabilities could impact our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and various other jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to allocation of expenses among different jurisdictions. our effective tax rates and tax obligations could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or rates, changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and material adjustments from tax audits. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the u.s., is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in the u.s. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. our tax expense and tax obligations could increase as a result of a changing application of tax law. governments are facing greater pressure on public finances, which could lead to their more aggressively applying existing tax laws and regulations. governments also periodically change tax laws and regulations. any changes in corporate income tax rates or regulations, on repatriation of dividends, earnings or capital, or on transfer pricing, as well as changes in the interpretation of existing tax laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, could adversely affect our cash flow and increase our overall tax burden, which would negatively affect our profitability. we face risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties that we do not control, which could harm our business. we sell some products through third parties, including distributors and value-added resellers. this exposes us to various risks, including competitive pressure, concentration of sales volumes, credit risks, and compliance risks. we may rely on one or a few key distributors for a product or market, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue and net earnings. distributors may also face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivables. violations of the fcpa or similar anti-bribery laws by distributors or other third-party intermediaries could materially impact our business. risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position. 18 table of contents a terrorism attack, other geopolitical crisis, or widespread outbreak of an illness or other health issue could negatively affect our business, making it more difficult and expensive to meet our obligations to our customers, and could result in reduced demand from our customers. our global operations are susceptible to global events, including acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, political instability, and natural disasters. also, in past years a number of countries have experienced outbreaks of the h1n1 influenza (swine flu) or, in the asia pacific region, outbreaks of sars and/or avian influenza (bird flu), and more recently, ebola outbreaks in parts of africa. despite the implementation of certain precautions, we are susceptible to such outbreaks. as a result of such events, businesses can be shut down and individuals can become ill, quarantined, or otherwise unable to work. these events, particularly in north america, europe, china, or other locations significant to our operations, could adversely affect general commercial activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, or prospects. if our operations are curtailed, we may need to seek alternate sources of supply for services and staff and these alternate sources may be more expensive. alternate sources may not be available or may result in delays in shipments to our customers, each of which would affect our results of operations. in addition, a curtailment of our product design operations could result in delays in the development of new products. further, if our customers' businesses are similarly affected, they might delay or reduce purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we may face risks associated with future acquisitions. we may pursue acquisitions of complementary product lines, technologies, or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in integrating the acquired operations, technologies, and products; diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and potential departures of key employees of the acquired company. if we successfully identify acquisitions in the future, completing such acquisitions may result in new issuances of our stock that may be dilutive to current owners, increases in our debt and contingent liabilities, and additional amortization expense related to intangible assets. any of these acquisition-related risks could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. larger companies have identified life sciences and instruments as businesses they will consider entering, which could change the competitive dynamics of these markets. in addition, we may not be able to identify, successfully complete, or integrate potential acquisitions in the future. even if we can do so, we cannot be sure that these acquisitions will have a positive impact on our business or operating results. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights, or if we infringe or misappropriate the proprietary rights of others, our operating results could be harmed. our success depends on our ability to obtain, maintain, and enforce patents on our technology, maintain our trademarks, and protect our trade secrets. our patents may not provide complete protection, may expire, and competitors may develop similar products that are not covered by our patents. our patents may also be challenged by third parties and invalidated or narrowed. we may experience a decline in sales and/or profitability if any of these things occur. competitors sometimes seek to take advantage of our trademarks or brands in ways that may create customer confusion or weaken our brand. improper use or disclosure of our trade secrets may still occur. we may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. the cost of any litigation could affect our profitability regardless of the outcome, and management attention could be diverted. if we are unsuccessful in such litigation, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing activity, and/or 19 table of contents obtain a license. if we fail to obtain a required license, we may be unable to sell some of our products, which could result in a decline in our revenues. departures of key employees could impair our operations. key employees could leave the company. if any key employees stopped working for us, our operations could be harmed. important r&amp;d personnel may leave and join competitors, which could substantially delay or hinder ongoing development projects. we have no key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our senior executives. we may be adversely affected by environmental laws and regulations. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations and incur expenditures in complying with environmental laws and regulations. we are currently involved in, or have potential liability with respect to, the remediation of past contamination in various facilities. in addition, some of our facilities are or have been in operation for many decades and may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are hazardous or may be considered hazardous in the future. these sites and disposal sites owned by others to which we sent waste may in the future be identified as contaminated and require remediation. accordingly, it is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that may harm our results of operations or financial condition. we may be adversely affected by regulations and market expectations related to sourcing and our supply chain, including conflict minerals. the sec has adopted disclosures and reporting requirements for companies whose products contain certain minerals and their derivatives, namely tin, tantalum, tungsten, or gold, known as conflict minerals. companies must report annually whether or not such minerals originate from the democratic republic of congo (drc) and adjoining countries and in some cases to perform extensive due diligence on their supply chains for such minerals. these requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability, and pricing of materials used in the manufacturing of our products. in addition, we have incurred additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including cost related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals used in our products. since our supply chain is complex, the due diligence procedures that we have implemented may not enable us to ascertain with sufficient certainty the origins for these minerals or determine that these minerals are drc conflict free, which may harm our reputation. we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that our products be certified as drc conflict free, which could harm our relationships with these customers and/or lead to a loss of revenue. these requirements also could have the effect of limiting the pool of suppliers from which we source these minerals, and we may be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at prices similar to the past, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. future laws, regulations, or customers may make additional demands on supply chain transparency. these demands can include more transparency into the activities of our suppliers with regards to human rights and sustainable sourcing. we have significant protections in place to ensure we partner with responsible suppliers, but increased demands may cause us to incur increased supply chain costs. if we can't satisfy customers' demands, we may lose business, and if we can't meet new regulatory requirements, we may have to alter our sourcing at increased expense. 20 table of contents we may be adversely affected by failure to comply with regulations of governmental agencies or by the adoption of new regulations. changes in political policy in the united states and certain european countries may also impact global trade or create uncertainty impacting our business. our products are subject to regulation by governmental agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of activities relating to our products, including design and development, product safety, labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales, and distribution. we also operate a global business and are subject to various laws and regulations in the many markets we do business, including those relating to competition, employment and labor practices, international trade, and corruption. if we fail to comply with these regulations, or if new regulations are adopted that substantially change existing practice or impose new burdens, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution. in addition, we could be subject to investigation costs, reputational harm, fines, criminal prosecution, and other damages that could impact our profitability. changes in political policy in the united states and certain european countries may impact global trade or create uncertainty. recently, the united states government formally withdrew from the trans-pacific partnership agreement, initiated renegotiations of the north american free trade agreement, and threatened tougher trade terms with china and other countries. these actions may restrict our access to lower cost countries, cause foreign governments to consider tougher trade terms for u.s. companies, or otherwise create uncertainty in global markets. in times of uncertainty, some customers delay investments or defer normal replacement cycles, which could have an adverse impact on our sales. we may experience impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets. as of december 31, 2017 , our consolidated balance sheet included goodwill of $539.8 million and other intangible assets of $226.7 million . our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment expense. we make estimates and assumptions in valuing such intangible assets that affect our consolidated financial statements. in accordance with u.s. gaap, our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. the evaluation is based on valuation models that estimate fair value. in preparing the valuation models, we consider a number of factors, including operating results, business plans, economic conditions, future cash flows, and transactions and market data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in applying them to the impairment analyses. the significant estimates and assumptions within our fair value models include sales growth, controllable cost growth, perpetual growth, effective tax rates, and discount rates. our assessments to date have indicated that there has been no impairment of these assets. should any of these estimates or assumptions change, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, including from a prolonged economic slowdown, we may experience a triggering event that requires a new fair value assessment for our reporting units, possibly prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and resulting analysis could result in impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets if the fair value estimate declines below the carrying value. our amortization expense related to intangible assets with finite lives may materially change should our estimates of their useful lives change. 21 table of contents we have debt and we may incur substantially more debt, which could affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities. we have debt and we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. as of december 31, 2017 , we had total indebtedness of approximately $831.2 million , net of cash of $148.7 million . our debt instruments allow us to incur substantial additional indebtedness. the existence and magnitude of our debt could have important consequences. for example, it could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt instruments; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development, and other corporate requirements; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in raw material costs; limit our ability to respond to business opportunities; limit our ability to borrow additional funds, which may be necessary; and subject us to financial and other restrictive covenants, which, if we fail to comply with these covenants and our failure is not waived or cured, could result in an event of default under our debt instruments. the agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. the note purchase agreements governing our notes and the agreements governing our credit facility contain covenants imposing various restrictions on our business. these restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. the restrictions these covenants place on us include limitations on our ability to incur liens and consolidate, merge, sell, or lease all or substantially all of our assets. our credit facility and the note purchase agreements governing our senior notes also require us to meet certain financial ratios. our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including economic, financial, and industry conditions. the breach of any covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the note purchase agreements governing the senior notes and/or under our credit facility. an event of default under the agreements governing our debt would permit holders of our debt to declare all amounts owed to them under such agreements to be immediately due and payable. acceleration of our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable to make interest payments on the senior notes and repay the principal amount of the senior notes. the lenders under our credit agreement may be unable to meet their funding commitments, reducing the amount of our borrowing capacity. we have a revolving credit facility outstanding under which the company and certain of its subsidiaries may borrow up to $800 million . our credit facility is provided by a group of 13 financial institutions, which individually have between 2% and 14% of the total funding commitment. at december 31, 2017 , we had borrowings of $461.9 million outstanding under our credit facility. our ability to borrow further funds under our credit facility is subject to the various lenders' financial condition and ability to make funds available. even though the financial institutions are contractually obligated to lend funds, if one or more of the lenders encounters financial difficulties or goes bankrupt, such lenders may be unable to meet their obligations. this could result in us being unable to borrow the full $800 million amount available. we make forward-looking statements, and actual events or results may differ materially from these statements because assumptions we have made prove incorrect due to market conditions in our industries or other factors. we provide forward-looking statements both in our filings with the sec and orally in connection with our quarterly earnings calls, including guidance on anticipated earnings per share. you should not 22 table of contents rely on forward-looking statements to predict our actual results. our actual results or performance may be materially different than reflected in forward-looking statements because of various risks and uncertainties. our forward-looking statements may not be accurate or complete, and we do not intend to update or revise them in light of actual results. new risks also periodically arise. please consider the risks and factors that could cause our results to differ materially from what is described in our forward-looking statements. see in particular factors affecting our future operating results and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. in providing guidance on our future earnings, we evaluate our budgets, strategic plans, and other factors relating to our business. we make assumptions about external factors, including the following: the outlook for our end markets and the global economy; the impact of external factors on our competition; the financial position of our customers; the estimated costs of purchasing materials; developments in personnel costs; our estimated income tax expense; and rates for currency exchange, particularly between the swiss franc and the euro. some of these assumptions may prove to be incorrect over time. for example, although no single end-customer accounts for more than 1% of our revenues, if a number of our customers experienced significant deteriorations in their financial positions concurrently, it could have an impact on our results of operations. some of our key internal assumptions include the following: our ability to implement our business strategy; our ability to implement price increases as forecasted; the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs such as our spinnaker and market penetration and field turbo initiatives; the effectiveness of our programs to improve our service business, including growth, globalization, and productivity initiatives; our ability to develop and deliver innovative products and services; the continued growth of our sales in emerging markets; and the effectiveness of productivity and cost saving initiatives. these internal assumptions may also prove to be incorrect over time. for example, with respect to our ability to realize our planned price increases without disturbing our customer base in core markets, in certain markets, such as emerging markets, price tends to be a more significant factor in customers' decisions to purchase our products. furthermore, we can have no assurance that our cost reduction programs will generate adequate cost savings. additionally, it may become necessary to take additional restructuring actions resulting in additional restructuring costs. we believe our current assumptions are reasonable and prudent for planning purposes. however, should any of these assumptions prove to be incorrect, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, we may experience results different than our projections. our ability to generate and repatriate cash depends in part on factors beyond our control. our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund our share repurchase program, planned capital expenditures, and research and development efforts depends on our ability to generate and repatriate cash 23 table of contents in the future. this is subject to factors beyond our control, including general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, governmental, and other factors described in this section. we cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. we cannot ensure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and the senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our ability to fund our share repurchase program is also dependent on our ability to repatriate our international cash flows. changes in governmental cash repatriation policies, restrictions, or tax laws could impair our ability to continue our share repurchase program. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk discussion of this item is included in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 14 risk factors factors affecting our future operating results we are subject to certain risks associated with our international operations and have a significant concentration of business in china. we conduct business in many countries, including emerging markets in asia, latin america, and eastern europe, and these operations represent a significant portion of our sales and earnings. for example, our chinese operations accounted for 18% of sales to external customers, approximately 30% of our global production, and 37% of total segment profit during 2018 . in addition to the currency risks discussed below, international operations pose other substantial risks and problems for us, including the following: local tariffs and trade barriers; countries may revise or alter their respective legal and regulatory requirements; difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and/or mandatory salary increases; credit risks arising from financial difficulties facing local customers and distributors; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; nationalization of private enterprises which may result in the confiscation of assets, as we hold significant assets around the world in the form of property, plant, and equipment, inventory, and accounts receivable, as well as $145 million of cash at december 31, 2018 in our chinese subsidiaries; restrictions on investments and/or limitations regarding foreign ownership; adverse tax consequences, including tax disputes, imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; other uncertain local economic, political, and social conditions, including hyper-inflationary conditions or periods of low or no productivity growth; and credit tightening or reduction in credit availability for local customers. we must also comply with regulations regarding the conversion and repatriation of funds earned in local currencies. for example, we need government approval to convert earnings from our operations in china into other currencies and to repatriate these funds. if we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in using cash generated in china. we are required to comply with various import, export control, and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners, and other persons, including in certain cases dealings with or between our employees and subsidiaries. in certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services, and technologies, and in other circumstances, we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting a controlled item. we follow all relevant laws and continue to do business in russia. sanctions imposed on business in russia may affect the economy and our business in russia. in addition, failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services, and damage to our reputation. growth in emerging markets, especially china, can be volatile and change quickly. while we experienced strong growth in china in 2018, we have also experienced sales declines in recent years and we may see volatility in the future. there is also currently economic uncertainty, including the potential impact of international trade/tariff disputes. 14 table of contents we sell primarily to companies in developed countries. an economic downturn in these countries could hurt our operating results. most of our business is derived from companies in developed countries. economic uncertainty in many parts of the world, including international trade disputes and sovereign debt levels in the european union and the united states, are situations that we are monitoring closely. if developed countries were to experience slow growth or recession, we could see the following effects: a drop in demand for our products; companies being unable to finance their businesses; difficulty in obtaining materials and supplies; potential devaluation and/or impairment of assets; difficulty in collecting accounts receivables; an increase in accounts receivable write-offs; and greater foreign exchange rate volatility affecting our profitability and cash flow. economic downturns or recessions adversely affect our operating results because our customers often decrease or delay capital expenditures. customers may also purchase lower-cost products made by competitors and not resume purchasing our products even after economic conditions improve. these conditions would reduce our revenues and profitability. in addition, a potential financial crisis on financial institutions globally would likely have an adverse effect on the global capital markets and our business. currency fluctuations affect our operating profits. our earnings are affected by changing exchange rates. we are most sensitive to changes in the exchange rates between the swiss franc, euro, and u.s. dollar. we have more swiss franc expenses than we do swiss franc sales because we develop and manufacture products in switzerland that we sell globally and have a number of corporate functions located in switzerland. when the swiss franc strengthens against our other trading currencies, particularly the u.s. dollar and euro, our earnings go down. we also have significantly more sales in the euro than we do expenses. when the euro weakens against the u.s. dollar and swiss franc, our earnings also go down. we estimate a 1% strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro would reduce our earnings before tax by approximately $1.6 million to $1.8 million annually. we also conduct business throughout the world, including asia pacific, the united kingdom, eastern europe, latin america, and canada. fluctuations in these currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar can also affect our operating results. the most significant of these currency exposures is the chinese renminbi. the impact on our earnings before tax of the chinese renminbi weakening 1% against the u.s. dollar is a reduction of approximately $1.5 million to $1.7 million annually. in addition to the effects of exchange rate movements on operating profits, our debt levels can fluctuate due to changes in exchange rates, particularly between the u.s. dollar, the swiss franc, and euro. based on our outstanding debt at december 31, 2018 , we estimate that a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar against the currencies in which our debt is denominated would result in an increase of approximately $30.1 million in the reported u.s. dollar value of our debt. 15 table of contents concerns regarding the eurozone debt levels and market perception related to the instability of the euro could affect our operating profits. we conduct business in many countries that use the euro as their currency (the eurozone). concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations. in addition, concerns in recent years have existed regarding the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual eurozone countries. these concerns could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more eurozone countries or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely. should the euro dissolve entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at such time. these potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations. in addition, concerns over the effect of this financial crisis on financial institutions in europe and globally could have an adverse effect on the global capital markets and, more specifically, on the ability of our company, our customers, suppliers, and lenders to finance their respective businesses, to access liquidity at acceptable financing costs, if at all, on the availability of supplies and materials, and on the demand for our products. we are vulnerable to system failures and data loss risks, which could harm our business. we rely on our technology infrastructure to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, support our customers, fulfill orders, and bill, collect, and make payments. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, malicious employees or employee negligence, computer viruses, and other events. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data, or reduced functionality. a significant number of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in interruptions in our services, fraudulent or negligent loss of assets, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, which could harm our reputation and financial condition. our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our services or data loss as a result of system failures. customers may use our products and/or software to generate or manage confidential information. though we take steps to ensure our products and/or software are secure, it is possible customers could lose confidential information stored on our products. if a customer alleges system failures in our products and/or software cause or contribute to a loss, we could face harm to our reputation and financial condition and legal liability. we also are in the process of implementing a program to globalize our business processes and information technology systems that includes the implementation of a company-wide enterprise resource planning system. this has been proceeding on a staggered basis over several years with the initial go-live rollout having occurred in 2010. we have implemented the program in our swiss, chinese, u.k., benelux, german, and certain u.s. and southeast asia operations. we estimate that we have more than 80% of the program implemented, as measured in users. if the implementation is flawed, we could suffer interruptions in operations and customer-facing activities that could harm our reputation and financial condition or cause us to lose data, experience reduced functionality, or have delays in reporting financial information. it may take us longer to implement the program than we have planned, and the project may cost us more than we have estimated, either of which would negatively impact our ability to generate cost savings or other efficiencies. in addition, the implementation will increase our reliance on a single 16 table of contents information technology system, which would have greater consequences should we experience a system disruption. our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by a cybersecurity attack. as described in the above section, we rely on our technology infrastructure to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, fulfill orders, support our customers, and bill, collect and make payments. our system and processes may be susceptible to damage or interruption from cybersecurity incidents, such as terrorist or hacker attacks, the introduction of malicious computer viruses, ransomware, falsification of banking and other information, insider risk, or other security breaches. if there is a cybersecurity incident, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of assets or data, or reduced functionality. many of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality a cybersecurity incident could cause. security breaches of our systems which allow inappropriate access to or inadvertent transfer of information and misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our employees, customers, or suppliers could result in our suffering significant financial and reputational damage. customer may use our products and/or software to generate or manage critical information. though we take steps to ensure our products and/or software are secure, it is possible that a cyber attack could result in the loss or compromise of critical information. if a customer alleges that a cyber attack causes or contributes to a loss or compromise of critical information, we could face harm to our reputation and financial condition. while we attempt to mitigate cybersecurity risks by employing a number of proactive measures, including employee training and awareness, technical security controls, enhanced data protection, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems remain potentially vulnerable to cybersecurity threats, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we believe our mitigation measures reduce, but cannot eliminate, the risk of a cybersecurity incident. despite any precautions we may take, a cybersecurity incident could harm our reputation and financial condition and cause us to incur legal liability and increased costs to respond to such events. our cyber liability insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our services or asset or data loss as a result of cybersecurity incidents. we operate in highly competitive markets, and it may be difficult for us to preserve operating margins, gain market share, and maintain a technological advantage. our markets are highly competitive. many are fragmented both geographically and by application, particularly the industrial and food retailing markets. as a result, we face numerous regional or specialized competitors, many of which are well established in their markets. in addition, some of our competitors are divisions of larger companies with potentially greater financial and other resources than our own. there has also been an increase in the consolidation of precision instrument companies in recent years. any consolidation within our market could result in competitors becoming larger and having greater financial and other resources than our own. some of our competitors are domiciled or operate in emerging markets and may have a lower cost structure than ours. we are confronted with new competitors in emerging markets which, although relatively small in size today, could become larger companies in their home markets. given the sometimes significant growth rates of these emerging markets, and in light of their cost advantage over developed markets, emerging market competitors could become more significant global competitors. taken together, the competitive forces present in our markets could harm our operating margins. we expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive prices. although we believe that our products and services have advantages over our competitors, we may not be able to realize and maintain these advantages. 17 table of contents our ability to manufacture and deliver products and services may be disrupted. we have key manufacturing facilities located in china, europe, and the united states. many of our products are developed and manufactured at single locations, with limited alternate facilities. in addition, a large portion of our products and spare parts are distributed through regional logistics centers, in which certain logistics activities are outsourced to third parties. if we experience any significant disruption in these facilities for any reason, such as strikes or other labor unrest, power interruptions, cyber attacks, fire, earthquakes, hurricanes, or other events beyond our control, we may be unable to satisfy customer demand for our products or services and lose sales. it may be expensive to resolve these issues, even though some of these risks are covered by insurance policies. more importantly, customers may switch to competitors and may not return to us even if we resolve the interruption. our business would suffer if we were unable to obtain supplies of material. we purchase most of our raw materials, components, and supplies from multiple suppliers. some items are purchased from a limited or single source of supply, however, and disruption of these sources could affect our ability to manufacture products. even where multiple sources of materials and components are available, the quality of the alternative materials, regulatory and contractual requirements to qualify materials for use in manufacturing, and the time required to establish new relationships with reliable suppliers could result in manufacturing delays and possible loss of sales. if we are unable to obtain materials or components for an extended time, this could damage our customer relationships and harm our financial condition or results of operations. our product development efforts may not produce commercially viable products in a timely manner. if we do not introduce new products and enhancements, our products could become technologically obsolete over time, which would harm our operating results. to remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and customer service and support. we cannot be sure that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments. in developing new products, we may be required to make substantial investments before we can determine their commercial viability. as a result, we may not be successful in developing new products and we may never realize the benefits of our research and development activities. a prolonged downturn or additional consolidation in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and chemical industries could adversely affect our operating results. a reduction in the capital resources or government funding of our customers could reduce our sales. our products are used extensively in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and chemical industries. consolidation in these industries hurt our sales in prior years. in recent years, there has been an increase in consolidation within these industries. a prolonged economic downturn or additional consolidation in any of these industries could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, the capital spending policies of our customers in these and other industries are based on a variety of factors we cannot control, including the resources available for purchasing equipment, the spending priorities among various types of equipment, and policies regarding capital expenditures. any decrease or delay in capital spending by our customers would cause our revenues to decline and could harm our profitability. a decline in government funding of research or education could reduce some customers' ability to purchase our products. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or additional income tax liabilities could impact our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and various other jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to allocation of expenses among different jurisdictions. our 18 table of contents effective tax rates and tax obligations could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or rates, changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and material adjustments from tax audits. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the u.s., is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in the u.s. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. our tax expense and tax obligations could increase as a result of a changing application of tax law. governments are facing greater pressure on public finances, which could lead to their more aggressively applying existing tax laws and regulations. governments also periodically change tax laws and regulations. any changes in corporate income tax rates or regulations, on repatriation of dividends, earnings or capital, or on transfer pricing, as well as changes in the interpretation of existing tax laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, could adversely affect our cash flow and increase our overall tax burden, which would negatively affect our profitability. we face risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties that we do not control, which could harm our business. we sell some products through third parties, including distributors and value-added resellers. this exposes us to various risks, including competitive pressure, concentration of sales volumes, credit risks, and compliance risks. we may rely on one or a few key distributors for a product or market, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue and net earnings. distributors may also face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivables. violations of the fcpa or similar anti-bribery laws by distributors or other third-party intermediaries could materially impact our business. risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position. a terrorism attack, other geopolitical crisis, or widespread outbreak of an illness or other health issue could negatively affect our business, making it more difficult and expensive to meet our obligations to our customers, and could result in reduced demand from our customers. our global operations are susceptible to global events, including acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, political instability, and natural disasters. also, in past years a number of countries have experienced outbreaks of the h1n1 influenza (swine flu) or, in the asia pacific region, outbreaks of sars and/or avian influenza (bird flu), and more recently, ebola outbreaks in parts of africa. despite the implementation of certain precautions, we are susceptible to such outbreaks. as a result of such events, businesses can be shut down and individuals can become ill, quarantined, or otherwise unable to work. these events, particularly in north america, europe, china, or other locations significant to our operations, could adversely affect general commercial activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, or prospects. if our operations are curtailed, we may need to seek alternate sources of supply for services and staff and these alternate sources may be more expensive. alternate sources may not be available or may result in delays in shipments to our customers, each of which would affect our results of operations. in addition, a curtailment of our product design operations could result in delays in the development of new products. further, if our customers' businesses are similarly affected, they might delay or reduce purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 19 table of contents if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights, or if we infringe or misappropriate the proprietary rights of others, our operating results could be harmed. our success depends on our ability to obtain, maintain, and enforce patents on our technology, maintain our trademarks, and protect our trade secrets. our patents may not provide complete protection or may expire, and competitors may develop similar products that are not covered by our patents. our patents may also be challenged by third parties and invalidated or narrowed. we may experience a decline in sales and/or profitability if any of these things occur. competitors sometimes seek to take advantage of our trademarks or brands in ways that may create customer confusion or weaken our brand. improper use or disclosure of our trade secrets may still occur. we may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. the cost of any litigation could affect our profitability regardless of the outcome, and management attention could be diverted. if we are unsuccessful in such litigation, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing activity, and/or obtain a license. if we fail to obtain a required license, we may be unable to sell some of our products, which could result in a decline in our revenues. departures of key employees could impair our operations. key employees could leave the company. if any key employees stopped working for us, our operations could be harmed. important r&amp;d personnel may leave and join competitors, which could substantially delay or hinder ongoing development projects. we have no key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our senior executives. we may be adversely affected by environmental laws and regulations. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations and incur expenditures in complying with environmental laws and regulations. we are currently involved in, or have potential liability with respect to, the remediation of past contamination in various facilities. in addition, some of our facilities are or have been in operation for many decades and may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are hazardous or may be considered hazardous in the future. these sites and disposal sites owned by others to which we sent waste may in the future be identified as contaminated and require remediation. accordingly, it is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that may harm our results of operations or financial condition. we may be adversely affected by regulations and market expectations related to sourcing and our supply chain, including conflict minerals. the sec has adopted disclosures and reporting requirements for companies whose products contain certain minerals and their derivatives, namely tin, tantalum, tungsten, or gold, known as conflict minerals. companies must report annually whether or not such minerals originate from the democratic republic of congo (drc) and adjoining countries and in some cases perform extensive due diligence on their supply chains for such minerals. these requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability, and pricing of materials used in the manufacturing of our products. in addition, we have incurred additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including cost related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals used in our products. since our supply chain is complex, the due diligence procedures that we have implemented may not enable us to ascertain with sufficient certainty the origins for these minerals or determine that these minerals are drc conflict free, which may harm our reputation. we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that our products be certified as drc conflict free, which could harm our relationships with these customers and/or lead to a loss of revenue. these requirements also could have the effect of limiting the pool of suppliers from which we source these minerals, and we may be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at prices similar to the past, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. 20 table of contents future laws, regulations, or customers may make additional demands on supply chain transparency. these demands can include more transparency into the activities of our suppliers with regard to human rights and sustainable sourcing. we have significant protections in place to ensure we partner with responsible suppliers, but increased demands may cause us to incur increased supply chain costs. if we can't satisfy customers' demands, we may lose business, and if we can't meet new regulatory requirements, we may have to alter our sourcing at increased expense. we may be adversely affected by failure to comply with regulations of governmental agencies or by the adoption of new regulations. changes in united states trade policy, including the imposition of tariffs and the resulting consequences, as well as other changes in political policy in the united states, china, the u.k., and certain european countries, may also impact global trade or create uncertainty impacting our business. our products are subject to regulation by governmental agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of activities relating to our products, including design and development, product safety, labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales, and distribution. we also operate a global business and are subject to various laws and regulations in the many markets we do business, including those relating to competition, employment and labor practices, international trade, and corruption. if we fail to comply with these regulations, or if new regulations are adopted that substantially change existing practice or impose new burdens, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution. in addition, we could be subject to investigation costs, reputational harm, fines, criminal prosecution, and other damages that could impact our profitability. changes in political policy in the united states, china, the u.k., and certain european countries may impact global trade or create uncertainty. the united states government has announced its intent to adopt a new approach to trade policy and in certain cases to renegotiate, or possibly terminate, certain existing trade agreements. the united states government has also initiated tariffs on certain foreign goods, particularly those produced in china, and has raised the possibility of imposing further tariff increases or expanding the scope of the tariffs. as a result, certain foreign governments, including the chinese government, have imposed retaliatory tariffs on goods that their countries import from the united states. these actions may restrict our access to lower-cost countries or otherwise create uncertainty in global markets and make it more difficult or costly for us to import our products into certain countries. the adoption and expansion of trade restrictions or other government action related to tariffs or trade agreements or policies could also lead to an economic downturn and/or could create unfavorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates (see above description "currency fluctuations affect our operating profits"). in times of uncertainty, some customers delay investments or defer normal replacement cycles, which could have an adverse impact on our sales. the adoption and expansion of trade restrictions or other governmental action related to tariffs or trade agreements or policies have the potential to adversely impact our business and financial performance. in june 2016, voters in the u.k. approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union, commonly referred to as "brexit". the timing of the proposed exit is currently scheduled for march 2019, with a transition period running through december 2020. brexit has created political and economic uncertainty that may have a negative impact on u.k., european and global economic conditions, international trade flows, and foreign currency translation. at this time, we cannot predict the potential impact of brexit on our business. however, brexit could adversely effect our operating results and financial condition. 21 table of contents we may face risks associated with future acquisitions. we may pursue acquisitions of complementary product lines, technologies, or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in integrating the acquired operations, technologies, and products; diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and potential departures of key employees of the acquired company. if we successfully identify acquisitions in the future, completing such acquisitions may result in new issuances of our stock that may be dilutive to current owners, increases in our debt and contingent liabilities, and additional amortization expense related to intangible assets. any of these acquisition-related risks could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. larger companies have identified life sciences and instruments as businesses they will consider entering, which could change the competitive dynamics of these markets. in addition, we may not be able to identify, successfully complete, or integrate potential acquisitions in the future. even if we can do so, we cannot be sure that these acquisitions will have a positive impact on our business or operating results. we are also required to estimate the fair value of certain assets acquired or liabilities assumed. such fair values may be based on valuation models which are subject to inherent uncertainties and our judgments regarding certain assumptions. we may experience impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets. as of december 31, 2018 , our consolidated balance sheet included goodwill of $534.8 million and other intangible assets of $217.3 million . our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment expense. we make estimates and assumptions in valuing such intangible assets that affect our consolidated financial statements. in accordance with u.s. gaap, our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. the evaluation may be based on valuation models that estimate fair value. in preparing the valuation models, we consider a number of factors, including operating results, business plans, economic conditions, future cash flows, and transactions and market data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in applying them to the impairment analyses. the significant estimates and assumptions within our fair value models include sales growth, controllable cost growth, perpetual growth, effective tax rates, and discount rates. our assessments to date have indicated that there has been no impairment of these assets. should any of these estimates or assumptions change, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, including from a prolonged economic slowdown, we may experience a triggering event that requires a new fair value assessment for our reporting units, possibly prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and resulting analysis could result in impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets if the fair value estimate declines below the carrying value. our amortization expense related to intangible assets with finite lives may materially change should our estimates of their useful lives change. we have debt and we may incur substantially more debt, which could affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities. we have debt and we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. as of december 31, 2018 , we had total indebtedness of approximately $856.6 million , net of cash of $178.1 million . our debt instruments allow us to incur substantial additional indebtedness. 22 table of contents the existence and magnitude of our debt could have important consequences. for example, it could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt instruments; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development, and other corporate requirements; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in raw material costs; limit our ability to respond to business opportunities; limit our ability to borrow additional funds, which may be necessary; and subject us to financial and other restrictive covenants, which, if we fail to comply with these covenants and our failure is not waived or cured, could result in an event of default under our debt instruments. the agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. the note purchase agreements governing our notes and the agreements governing our credit facility contain covenants imposing various restrictions on our business. these restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. the restrictions these covenants place on us include limitations on our ability to incur liens and consolidate, merge, sell, or lease all or substantially all of our assets. our credit facility and the note purchase agreements governing our senior notes also require us to meet certain financial ratios. our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including economic, financial, and industry conditions. the breach of any covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the note purchase agreements governing the senior notes and/or under our credit facility. an event of default under the agreements governing our debt would permit holders of our debt to declare all amounts owed to them under such agreements to be immediately due and payable. acceleration of our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable to make interest payments on the senior notes and repay the principal amount of the senior notes. the lenders under our credit agreement may be unable to meet their funding commitments, reducing the amount of our borrowing capacity. we have a revolving credit facility outstanding under which the company and certain of its subsidiaries may borrow up to $1.1 billion . our credit facility is provided by a group of 15 financial institutions, which individually have between 1% and 11% of the total funding commitment. at december 31, 2018 , we had borrowings of $493.2 million outstanding under our credit facility. our ability to borrow further funds under our credit facility is subject to the various lenders' financial condition and ability to make funds available. even though the financial institutions are contractually obligated to lend funds, if one or more of the lenders encounters financial difficulties or goes bankrupt, such lenders may be unable to meet their obligations. this could result in us being unable to borrow the full $1.1 billion amount available. we make forward-looking statements, and actual events or results may differ materially from these statements because assumptions we have made prove incorrect due to market conditions in our industries or other factors. we provide forward-looking statements both in our filings with the sec and orally in connection with our quarterly earnings calls, including guidance on anticipated earnings per share. you should not rely on forward-looking statements to predict our actual results. our actual results or performance may be materially different than reflected in forward-looking statements because of various risks and uncertainties. our forward-looking statements may not be accurate or complete, and we do not intend to update or revise them in light of actual results. new risks also periodically arise. please consider the risks and factors that could cause our results to differ materially from what is described in our forward-looking 23 table of contents statements. see in particular factors affecting our future operating results and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. in providing guidance on our future earnings, we evaluate our budgets, strategic plans, and other factors relating to our business. we make assumptions about external factors, including the following: the outlook for our end markets and the global economy; the impact of external factors on our competition; the financial position of our customers and their willingness to pay for our products and services; the estimated costs of purchasing materials; developments in personnel costs; our estimated income tax expense; and rates for currency exchange, particularly between the swiss franc and the euro. some of these assumptions may prove to be incorrect over time. for example, although no single end-customer accounts for more than 1% of our revenues, if a number of our customers experienced significant deteriorations in their financial positions concurrently, it could have an impact on our results of operations. some of our key internal assumptions include the following: our ability to implement our business strategy; our ability to implement price increases as forecasted; the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs such as our spinnaker and market penetration, and field turbo initiatives; the effectiveness of our programs to improve our service business, including growth, globalization, and productivity initiatives; our ability to develop and deliver innovative products and services; the continued growth of our sales in emerging markets; and the effectiveness of productivity and cost saving initiatives. these internal assumptions may also prove to be incorrect over time. for example, with respect to our ability to realize our planned price increases without disturbing our customer base in core markets, in certain markets, such as emerging markets, price tends to be a more significant factor in customers' decisions to purchase our products and services. furthermore, we can have no assurance that our cost reduction programs will generate adequate cost savings. additionally, it may become necessary to take additional restructuring actions resulting in additional restructuring costs. we believe our current assumptions are reasonable and prudent for planning purposes. however, should any of these assumptions prove to be incorrect, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, we may experience results different than our projections. our ability to generate and repatriate cash depends in part on factors beyond our control. our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund our share repurchase program, planned capital expenditures, and research and development efforts depends on our ability to generate and repatriate cash in the future. this is subject to factors beyond our control, including general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, governmental, and other factors described in this section. we cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. we cannot ensure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and the senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 24 table of contents our ability to fund our share repurchase program is also dependent on our ability to repatriate our international cash flows. changes in governmental cash repatriation policies, restrictions, or tax laws could impair our ability to continue our share repurchase program. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk discussion of this item is included in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 14 risk factors factors affecting our future operating results we are subject to certain risks associated with our international operations and have a significant concentration of business in china. we conduct business in many countries, including emerging markets in asia, latin america, and eastern europe, and these operations represent a significant portion of our sales and earnings. for example, our chinese operations accounted for 18% of sales to external customers, approximately 30% of our global production, and 34% of total segment profit during 2019 . in addition to the currency risks discussed below, international operations pose other substantial risks and problems for us, including the following: local tariffs and trade barriers; countries may add to, revise, or alter their respective legal and regulatory requirements; difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and/or mandatory salary increases; credit risks arising from financial difficulties facing local customers and distributors; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; nationalization of private enterprises which may result in the confiscation of assets, as we hold significant assets around the world in the form of property, plant, and equipment, inventory, and accounts receivable, as well as $165.5 million of cash at december 31, 2019 in our chinese subsidiaries; restrictions on investments and/or limitations regarding foreign ownership; adverse tax consequences, including tax disputes, imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; the adoption of new or expansion of current travel restrictions or the intensification of trade wars; other uncertain local economic, political, and social conditions, including hyper-inflationary conditions or periods of low or no productivity growth; and credit tightening or reduction in credit availability for local customers. we must also comply with regulations regarding the conversion and repatriation of funds earned in local currencies. for example, we need government approval to convert earnings from our operations in china into other currencies and to repatriate these funds. if we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in using cash generated in china. we are required to comply with various import, export control, and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners, and other persons, including in certain cases dealings with or between our employees and subsidiaries. in certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services, and technologies, and in other circumstances, we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting a controlled item. we follow all relevant laws and continue to do business in russia. sanctions imposed on business in russia may affect the economy and our business in russia. in addition, failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services, and damage to our reputation. growth in emerging markets, especially china, can be volatile and change quickly. while we experienced solid growth in china in 2019, we have also experienced sales declines in past years and we may see volatility in the future. there is also currently economic uncertainty, due in part to the prolonged trade/tariff disputes with the united states. in the short-term, we could also be impacted by the recent new strain of the wuhan coronavirus outbreak as further described on page 20. 14 table of contents we sell primarily to companies in developed countries. an economic downturn in these countries could hurt our operating results. most of our business is derived from companies in developed countries. economic uncertainty in many parts of the world, including international trade disputes and sovereign debt levels in the european union and the united states, are situations that we are monitoring closely. if developed countries were to experience slow growth or recession, we could see the following effects: a drop in demand for our products; companies being unable to finance their businesses; difficulty in obtaining materials and supplies; potential devaluation and/or impairment of assets; difficulty in collecting accounts receivables; an increase in accounts receivable write-offs; and greater foreign exchange rate volatility affecting our profitability and cash flow. economic downturns or recessions adversely affect our operating results because our customers often decrease or delay capital expenditures. customers may also purchase lower-cost products made by competitors and not resume purchasing our products even after economic conditions improve. these conditions would reduce our revenues and profitability. in addition, a potential financial crisis on financial institutions globally would likely have an adverse effect on the global capital markets and our business. currency fluctuations affect our operating profits. our earnings are affected by changing exchange rates. we are particularly sensitive to changes in the exchange rates between the swiss franc, euro, and u.s. dollar. we have more swiss franc expenses than we do swiss franc sales because we develop and manufacture products in switzerland that we sell globally and have a number of corporate functions located in switzerland. when the swiss franc strengthens against our other trading currencies, particularly the u.s. dollar and euro, our earnings go down. we also have significantly more sales in the euro than we do expenses. when the euro weakens against the u.s. dollar and swiss franc, our earnings also go down. we estimate a 1% strengthening of the swiss franc against the euro would reduce our earnings before tax by approximately $1.6 million to $1.8 million annually. we also conduct business throughout the world, including asia pacific, the united kingdom, eastern europe, latin america, and canada. fluctuations in these currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar can also affect our operating results. the most significant of these currency exposures is the chinese renminbi. the impact on our earnings before tax of the chinese renminbi weakening 1% against the u.s. dollar is a reduction of approximately $1.7 million to $1.9 million annually. in addition to the effects of exchange rate movements on operating profits, our debt levels can fluctuate due to changes in exchange rates, particularly between the u.s. dollar, the swiss franc, and euro. based on our outstanding debt at december 31, 2019 , we estimate that a 5% weakening of the u.s. dollar against the currencies in which our debt is denominated would result in an increase of $22.8 million in the reported u.s. dollar value of our debt. 15 table of contents concerns regarding the eurozone debt levels and market perception related to the instability of the euro could affect our operating profits. we conduct business in many countries that use the euro as their currency (the eurozone). concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations. in addition, concerns in recent years have existed regarding the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual eurozone countries. these concerns could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more eurozone countries or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely. should the euro dissolve entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at such time. these potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated assets and obligations. in addition, concerns over the effect of this type of financial crisis on financial institutions in europe and globally could have an adverse effect on the global capital markets and, more specifically, on the ability of our company, our customers, suppliers, and lenders to finance their respective businesses, to access liquidity at acceptable financing costs, if at all, on the availability of supplies and materials, and on the demand for our products. we are vulnerable to system failures and data loss risks, which could harm our business. we rely on our technology infrastructure to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, support our customers, fulfill orders, and bill, collect, and make payments. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, malicious employees or employee negligence, computer viruses, and other events. when we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data, or reduced functionality. a significant number of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in interruptions in our services, fraudulent or negligent loss of assets, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, which could harm our reputation and financial condition. our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our services or data loss as a result of system failures. customers may use our products and/or software to generate or manage confidential information. though we take steps to ensure our products and/or software are secure, it is possible customers could lose confidential information stored on our products. if a customer alleges system failures in our products and/or software cause or contribute to a loss, we could face harm to our reputation and financial condition and legal liability. we also are in the process of implementing a program to globalize our business processes and information technology systems that includes the implementation of a company-wide enterprise resource planning system. this has been proceeding on a staggered basis over a multi-year period. we have implemented the program in our swiss, chinese, u.k., benelux, german, and certain u.s. and southeast asia operations. we estimate that we have more than 80% of our users on the program and will continue to implement additional locations and functionality over the coming years. if our implementation is flawed, we could suffer interruptions in operations and customer-facing activities that could harm our reputation and financial condition or cause us to lose data, experience reduced functionality, or have delays in reporting financial information. it may take us longer to implement the program than we have planned, and the project may cost us more than we have estimated, either of which would negatively impact our ability to generate cost savings or other efficiencies. in addition, the program has increased our 16 table of contents reliance on a single information technology system, which would have greater consequences should we experience a system disruption. our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by a cybersecurity attack. as described in the above section, we rely on our technology infrastructure to interact with suppliers, sell our products and services, fulfill orders, support our customers, and bill, collect and make payments. our system and processes may be susceptible to damage or interruption from cybersecurity incidents, such as terrorist or hacker attacks, the introduction of malicious computer viruses, ransomware, falsification of banking and other information, insider risk, or other security breaches. if there is a cybersecurity incident, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of assets or data, or reduced functionality. many of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality a cybersecurity incident could cause. security breaches of our systems which allow inappropriate access to or inadvertent transfer of information and misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our employees, customers, or suppliers could result in our suffering significant financial and reputational damage. customers may use our products and/or software to generate or manage critical information. though we take steps to ensure our products and/or software are secure, it is possible that a cyber attack could result in the loss or compromise of critical information. if a customer alleges that a cyber attack causes or contributes to a loss or compromise of critical information, we could face harm to our reputation and financial condition. while we attempt to mitigate cybersecurity risks by employing a number of proactive measures, including employee training and awareness, technical security controls, enhanced data protection, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems remain potentially vulnerable to cybersecurity threats, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we believe our mitigation measures reduce, but cannot eliminate, the risk of a cybersecurity incident. despite any precautions we may take, a cybersecurity incident could harm our reputation and financial condition and cause us to incur legal liability and increased costs to respond to such events. our cyber liability insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our services or asset or data loss as a result of cybersecurity incidents. in addition, regulatory or legislative action related to cybersecurity, privacy, and data protection worldwide, such as the european gdpr which went into effect in may 2018, may increase the costs to develop, implement, or secure our products or services. we expect cybersecurity regulations to continue to evolve and be costly to implement. if we violate or fail to comply with such regulatory or legislative requirements, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned, and such fines or penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. we operate in highly competitive markets, and it may be difficult for us to preserve operating margins, gain market share, and maintain a technological advantage. our markets are highly competitive. many are fragmented both geographically and by application, particularly the industrial and food retailing markets. as a result, we face numerous regional or specialized competitors, many of which are well established in their markets. in addition, some of our competitors are divisions of larger companies with potentially greater financial and other resources than our own. there has also been an increase in the consolidation of precision instrument companies in recent years. any consolidation within our market could result in competitors becoming larger and having greater financial and other resources than our own. some of our competitors are domiciled or operate in emerging markets and may have a lower cost structure than ours. we are confronted with new competitors in emerging markets which, although relatively small in size today, could become larger companies in 17 table of contents their home markets. given the sometimes significant growth rates of these emerging markets, and in light of their cost advantage over developed markets, emerging market competitors could become more significant global competitors. taken together, the competitive forces present in our markets could harm our operating margins. we expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive prices. although we believe that our products and services have advantages over our competitors, we may not be able to realize and maintain these advantages. our ability to manufacture and deliver products and services may be disrupted. we have key manufacturing facilities located in china, europe, and the united states. many of our products are developed and manufactured at single locations, with limited alternate facilities. in addition, a large portion of our products and spare parts are distributed through regional logistics centers, in which certain logistics activities are outsourced to third parties. if we experience any significant disruption in these facilities for any reason, such as the recent new strain of the wuhan coronavirus outbreak further described on page 20, strikes or other labor unrest, power interruptions, cybersecurity attacks, fire, earthquakes, hurricanes, or other events beyond our control, we may be unable to satisfy customer demand for our products or services resulting in lost sales. it may be expensive to resolve these issues, even though some of these risks are covered by insurance policies. more importantly, customers may switch to competitors and may not return to us even if we resolve the interruption. our business would suffer if we were unable to obtain supplies of material. we purchase most of our raw materials, components, and supplies from multiple suppliers. some items are purchased from a limited or single source of supply, and disruption of these sources could affect our ability to manufacture products. even where multiple sources of materials and components are available, the quality of the alternative materials, regulatory and contractual requirements to qualify materials for use in manufacturing, and the time required to establish new relationships with reliable suppliers could result in manufacturing delays and possible loss of sales. if we are unable to obtain materials or components for an extended time, this could damage our customer relationships and harm our financial condition or results of operations. our product development efforts may not produce commercially viable products in a timely manner. if we do not introduce new products and enhancements, our products could become technologically obsolete over time, which would harm our operating results. to remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and customer service and support. we cannot be sure that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments. in developing new products, we may be required to make substantial investments before we can determine their commercial viability. as a result, we may not be successful in developing new products and we may never realize the benefits of our research and development activities. a prolonged downturn or additional consolidation in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and chemical industries could adversely affect our operating results. a reduction in the capital resources or government funding of our customers could reduce our sales. our products are used extensively in the pharmaceutical, food and beverage, and chemical industries. consolidation in these industries hurt our sales in prior years. in recent years, there has been an increase in consolidation within these industries. a prolonged global economic downturn, a downturn affecting one or more of these industries, or additional consolidation in any of these industries could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, the capital spending policies of our customers in these and other industries are based on a variety of factors we cannot control, including the resources available for purchasing 18 table of contents equipment, the spending priorities among various types of equipment, and policies regarding capital expenditures. any decrease or delay in capital spending by our customers would cause our revenues to decline and could harm our profitability. a decline in government funding of research or education could reduce some customers' ability to purchase our products. unanticipated changes in our tax rates or additional income tax liabilities could impact our profitability. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and various other jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to allocation of expenses among different jurisdictions. our effective tax rates and tax obligations could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or rates, changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and material adjustments from tax audits. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the u.s., is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in the u.s. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. our tax expense and tax obligations could increase as a result of changing application of tax law. governments are facing greater pressure on public finances, which could lead to their more aggressively applying existing tax laws and regulations. governments also periodically change tax laws and regulations. the organization for economic co-operation and development ("oecd") is also performing an economic impact study that is expected to develop a solution to the digital economy, and also propose a supplement to the current transfer pricing arm's length standard for allocating profit. while the oecd's current focus appears to be related to the digital economy and consumer businesses, there is a possibility that the oecd also proposes changes to business-to-business transfer pricing regulations. any changes in corporate income tax rates or regulations, on repatriation of dividends, earnings or capital, or on transfer pricing, as well as changes in the interpretation of existing tax laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, could adversely affect our cash flow and increase our overall tax burden, which would negatively affect our profitability. potential oecd changes impacting consumer businesses could also have an unfavorable effect on some of our key customer segments such as pharmaceutical, and food and beverage, which could result in a decline or delay in capital spending by our customers and a resulting decline in our revenues and lower profitability. we face risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties that we do not control, which could harm our business. we sell some products through third parties, including distributors and value-added resellers. this exposes us to various risks, including competitive pressure, concentration of sales volumes, credit risks, and compliance risks. we may rely on one or a few key distributors for a product or market, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue and net earnings. distributors may also face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivables. violations of the fcpa or similar anti-bribery laws by distributors or other third-party intermediaries could materially impact our business. in addition to financial risk, actions of some of our distributors could cause reputational harm, especially if our products are involved. risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position. 19 table of contents a terrorism attack, other geopolitical crisis, or widespread outbreak of an illness or other health issue, such as the wuhan coronavirus outbreak, could negatively affect various aspects of our business, including our workforce and supply chain, and make it more difficult and expensive to meet our obligations to our customers, and could result in reduced demand from our customers. our global operations are susceptible to global events, including acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, political instability, and natural disasters. the occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business results and financial condition. we are also susceptible to a widespread outbreak of an illness or other health issue, such as the recent 2019 coronavirus outbreak first reported in wuhan, hubei province, china in december 2019 ("wuhan coronavirus"), resulting in thousands of confirmed cases in china and many additional cases identified in other countries in which we conduct business. the outbreak of the wuhan coronavirus has caused the chinese government to implement quarantines of wuhan and surrounding areas and implement significant restrictions on travel. the chinese government has also implemented work restrictions that prohibit many employees from going to work. these quarantines, travel bans, and other restrictions have been put in place on a national level until february 3, 2020, with several provinces in which we have manufacturing facilities and sales offices extending that date to february 9, 2020. at this time, it is unclear if the chinese government will further extend any of the current restrictions or if further restrictions will be put into place by the government. in addition, many countries have placed significant bans on travel to and from china, with many countries and airlines suspending flights to and from mainland china. as a result of pandemic outbreaks, including the wuhan coronavirus, businesses can be shut down, supply chains can be interrupted, slowed, or rendered inoperable, and individuals can become ill, quarantined, or otherwise unable to work and/or travel due to health reasons or governmental restrictions. governmental mandates may require forced shutdowns of our facilities for extended or indefinite periods. in addition, these widespread outbreaks of illness, particularly in china, north america, europe, or other locations (especially asia pacific) significant to our operations, could adversely affect our workforce resulting in serious health issues and absenteeism. pandemic outbreaks, including the wuhan coronavirus, could also substantially interfere with general commercial activity related to our supply chain and customer base, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, or prospects. if our operations are curtailed, we may need to seek alternate sources of supply for services and staff, which may be more expensive. alternate sources may not be available or may result in delays in shipments to us from our supply chain and subsequently to our customers, each of which would affect our results of operations. further, if our customers' businesses are similarly affected, they might delay or reduce purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights, or if we infringe or misappropriate the proprietary rights of others, our operating results could be harmed. our success depends on our ability to obtain, maintain, and enforce patents on our technology, maintain our trademarks, and protect our trade secrets. our patents may not provide complete protection or may expire, and competitors may develop similar products that are not covered by our patents. our patents may also be challenged by third parties and invalidated or narrowed. we may experience a decline in sales and/or profitability if any of these things occur. competitors sometimes seek to take advantage of our trademarks or brands in ways that may create customer confusion or weaken our brand. improper use or disclosure of our trade secrets may still occur. we may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. the cost of any litigation could affect our profitability regardless of the outcome, and management attention could be diverted. if we are unsuccessful in such litigation, we may have to pay damages, stop the infringing activity, and/or 20 table of contents obtain a license. if we fail to obtain a required license, we may be unable to sell some of our products, which could result in a decline in our revenues. departures of key employees could impair our operations. key employees could leave the company. if any key employees stopped working for us, our operations could be harmed. important r&amp;d personnel may leave and join competitors, which could substantially delay or hinder ongoing development projects. we have no key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our senior executives. we may be adversely affected by environmental laws and regulations. we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations and incur expenditures in complying with environmental laws and regulations. we are currently involved in, or have potential liability with respect to, the remediation of past contamination in various facilities. in addition, some of our facilities are or have been in operation for many decades and may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes that are hazardous or may be considered hazardous in the future. these sites and disposal sites owned by others to which we sent waste may in the future be identified as contaminated and require remediation. accordingly, it is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future that may harm our results of operations or financial condition. we may be adversely affected by regulations and market expectations related to sourcing and our supply chain, including conflict minerals. the sec has adopted disclosures and reporting requirements for companies whose products contain certain minerals and their derivatives, namely tin, tantalum, tungsten, or gold, known as conflict minerals. companies must report annually whether or not such minerals originate from the democratic republic of congo (drc) and adjoining countries. these requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability, and pricing of materials used in the manufacturing of our products. in addition, we have incurred additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including cost related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals used in our products. since our supply chain is complex, due diligence procedures we have implemented to understand the origins of the minerals we use in our operations may not enable us to ascertain with sufficient certainty the origins for these minerals or determine that these minerals are drc conflict free, which may harm our reputation. we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that our products be certified as drc conflict free, which could harm our relationships with these customers and/or lead to a loss of revenue. these requirements also could have the effect of limiting the pool of suppliers from which we source these minerals, and we may be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at prices similar to the past, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. future laws, regulations, or customers may make additional demands on supply chain transparency. these demands can include more transparency into the activities of our suppliers with regard to human rights and sustainable sourcing. we have significant protections in place to ensure we partner with responsible suppliers, but increased demands may cause us to incur increased supply chain costs. if we cannot satisfy customers' demands, we may lose business, and if we cannot meet new regulatory requirements, we may have to alter our sourcing at increased expense. 21 table of contents we may be adversely affected by failure to comply with regulations of governmental agencies or by the adoption of new regulations. united states trade policy, including the imposition of tariffs and the resulting consequences, as well as other political policies in the united states, china, the u.k., and certain european countries, may also impact global trade or create uncertainty impacting our business. our products are subject to regulation by governmental agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of activities relating to our products, including design and development, product safety, labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales, and distribution. we also operate a global business and are subject to various laws and regulations in the many markets where we do business, including those relating to competition, employment and labor practices, international trade, and corruption. if we fail to comply with these regulations, or if new regulations are adopted that substantially change existing practice or impose new burdens, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution. in addition, we could be subject to investigation costs, reputational harm, fines, criminal prosecution, and other damages that could impact our profitability. political policy in the united states, china, the u.k., and certain european countries may impact global trade or create uncertainty. the united states government has recently adopted a new approach to trade policy and in certain cases to renegotiate, or possibly terminate, certain existing trade agreements. the united states government has also initiated tariffs on certain foreign goods, particularly those produced in china, and has raised the possibility of imposing further tariff increases or expanding the scope of the tariffs. as a result, certain foreign governments, including the chinese government, have imposed retaliatory tariffs on goods that their countries import from the united states. in june 2016, voters in the u.k. approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union ("e.u."), commonly referred to as "brexit". on october 17, 2019, the u.k. prime minister and the e.u. agreed to new terms for the country's exit from the e.u., which now has all necessary parliamentary approvals. on january 31, 2020, the u.k. formally left the e.u. the u.k. and the e.u. are now in a transition period, where they have until the end of 2020 to attempt to negotiate a new trade agreement. if the u.k. leaves the e.u. without being able to negotiate an agreement, it may have an adverse impact on labor and trade and may create currency volatility. in the absence of a future trade deal, the u.k.'s trade with the european union and the rest of the world would be subject to tariffs and duties set by the world trade organization, resulting in possible higher importation costs of our products. in addition, the movement of goods between the u.k. and the remaining member states of the e.u. may be subject to additional inspections and documentation checks, leading to possible delays at ports of entry and departure. at this time, we cannot predict the potential impact of brexit on our business. however, brexit could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. these various trade policy and regulatory actions described above may restrict our access to lower-cost countries in certain circumstances or otherwise create uncertainty, negatively impact global markets, and make it more difficult or costly for us to import our products into certain countries. the adoption and expansion of trade restrictions or other government action related to tariffs or trade agreements or policies could also lead to an economic downturn and/or could create unfavorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates (see above description "currency fluctuations affect our operating profits"). in times of uncertainty, some customers delay investments or defer normal replacement cycles, which could have an adverse impact on our sales. the adoption and expansion of trade restrictions or other governmental action related to tariffs or trade agreements or policies have the potential to adversely impact our business and financial performance. 22 table of contents we may face risks associated with future acquisitions. we may pursue acquisitions of complementary product lines, technologies, or businesses. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in integrating the acquired operations, technologies, and products; diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and potential departures of key employees of the acquired company. if we successfully identify acquisitions in the future, completing such acquisitions may result in new issuances of our stock that may be dilutive to current owners, increases in our debt and contingent liabilities, and additional amortization expense related to intangible assets. any of these acquisition-related risks could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. larger companies have identified life sciences and instruments as businesses they will consider entering or expanding their presence, which could change the competitive dynamics of these markets. in addition, we may not be able to identify, successfully complete, or integrate potential acquisitions in the future. even if we can do so, we cannot be sure that these acquisitions will have a positive impact on our business or operating results. we are also required to estimate the fair value of certain assets acquired or liabilities assumed. such fair values may be based on valuation models which are subject to inherent uncertainties and our judgments regarding certain assumptions. we may experience impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets. as of december 31, 2019 , our consolidated balance sheet included goodwill of $536.0 million and other intangible assets of $206.2 million . our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment expense. we make estimates and assumptions in valuing such intangible assets that affect our consolidated financial statements. in accordance with u.s. gaap, our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated for impairment annually in the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. the evaluation may be based on valuation models that estimate fair value. in preparing the valuation models, we consider a number of factors, including operating results, business plans, economic conditions, future cash flows, and transactions and market data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in applying them to the impairment analyses. the significant estimates and assumptions within our fair value models include sales growth, controllable cost growth, perpetual growth, effective tax rates, and discount rates. our assessments to date have indicated that there has been no impairment of these assets. should any of these estimates or assumptions change, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, including from a prolonged economic slowdown, we may experience a triggering event that requires a new fair value assessment for our reporting units, possibly prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and resulting analysis could result in impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets if the fair value estimate declines below the carrying value. our amortization expense related to intangible assets with finite lives may materially change should our estimates of their useful lives change. we have debt and we may incur substantially more debt, which could affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities. we have debt and we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. as of december 31, 2019 , we had total indebtedness of approximately $1.1 billion , net of cash of $207.8 million . our debt instruments allow us to incur substantial additional indebtedness. 23 table of contents the existence and magnitude of our debt could have important consequences. for example, it could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt instruments; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development, and other corporate requirements; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in raw material costs; limit our ability to respond to business opportunities; limit our ability to borrow additional funds, which may be necessary; and subject us to financial and other restrictive covenants, which, if we fail to comply with these covenants and our failure is not waived or cured, could result in an event of default under our debt instruments. the agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. the note purchase agreements governing our notes and the agreements governing our credit facility contain covenants imposing various restrictions on our business. these restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. the restrictions these covenants place on us include limitations on our ability to incur liens and consolidate, merge, sell, or lease all or substantially all of our assets. our credit facility and the note purchase agreements governing our senior notes also require us to meet certain financial ratios. our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including economic, financial, and industry conditions. the breach of any covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the note purchase agreements governing the senior notes and/or under our credit facility. an event of default under the agreements governing our debt would permit holders of our debt to declare all amounts owed to them under such agreements to be immediately due and payable. acceleration of our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable to make interest payments on the senior notes and repay the principal amount of the senior notes. the lenders under our credit agreement may be unable to meet their funding commitments, reducing the amount of our borrowing capacity. we have a revolving credit facility outstanding under which the company and certain of its subsidiaries may borrow up to $1.1 billion . our credit facility is provided by a group of 15 financial institutions, which individually have between 1% and 11% of the total funding commitment. at december 31, 2019 , we had borrowings of $521.0 million outstanding under our credit facility. our ability to borrow further funds under our credit facility is subject to the various lenders' financial condition and ability to make funds available. even though the financial institutions are contractually obligated to lend funds, if one or more of the lenders encounters financial difficulties or goes bankrupt, such lenders may be unable to meet their obligations. this could result in us being unable to borrow the full $1.1 billion amount available. we are subject to risks associated with the discontinuation of libor. the u.k. financial conduct authority announced in 2017 that it intends to phase out the london interbank offered rate ("libor") by the end of 2021. changes in the method of calculating libor, or the replacement of libor with an alternative rate or benchmark, may adversely affect interest rates and could result in higher borrowing costs. in addition, if changes are made to the method of calculating libor or libor ceases to exist, we may need to amend certain contracts, including our credit facility and swap arrangements, and we cannot predict what alternative rate or benchmark would be negotiated. this may also result in an increase in our interest rate expense. 24 table of contents we make forward-looking statements, and actual events or results may differ materially from these statements because assumptions we have made prove incorrect due to market conditions in our industries or other factors. we provide forward-looking statements both in our filings with the sec and orally in connection with our quarterly earnings calls, including guidance on anticipated sales growth and earnings per share. you should not rely on forward-looking statements to predict our actual results. our actual results or performance may be materially different than reflected in forward-looking statements because of various risks and uncertainties. our forward-looking statements may not be accurate or complete, and we do not intend to update or revise them in light of actual results. new risks also periodically arise. please consider the risks and factors that could cause our results to differ materially from what is described in our forward-looking statements. see in particular factors affecting our future operating results and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. in providing guidance on our future earnings, we evaluate our budgets, strategic plans, and other factors relating to our business. we make assumptions about external factors, including the following: the outlook for our end markets and the global economy; the impact of external factors on our competition; the financial position of our customers and their willingness to pay for our products and services; the estimated costs of purchasing materials; developments in personnel costs; our estimated income tax expense; and rates for currency exchange, particularly between the swiss franc and the euro and between the chinese renminbi and the u.s. dollar. some of these assumptions may prove to be incorrect over time. for example, although no single end-customer accounts for more than 1% of our revenues, if a number of our customers experienced significant deteriorations in their financial positions concurrently, it could have an impact on our results of operations. some of our key internal assumptions include the following: our ability to implement our business strategy; our ability to implement price increases as forecasted; the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs such as our spinnaker, market penetration, and field turbo initiatives; the effectiveness of our programs to improve our service business, including growth, globalization, and productivity initiatives; our ability to develop and deliver innovative products and services; the continued growth of our sales in emerging markets; and the effectiveness of productivity and cost saving initiatives. these internal assumptions may also prove to be incorrect over time. for example, with respect to our ability to realize our planned price increases without disturbing our customer base in core markets, in certain markets, such as emerging markets, price tends to be a more significant factor in customers' decisions to purchase our products and services. furthermore, we can have no assurance that our cost reduction programs will generate adequate cost savings. additionally, it may become necessary to take additional restructuring actions resulting in additional restructuring costs. 25 table of contents we believe our current assumptions are reasonable and prudent for planning purposes. however, should any of these assumptions prove to be incorrect, or should we incur lower-than-expected operating performance or cash flows, we may experience results different than our projections. our ability to generate and repatriate cash depends in part on factors beyond our control. our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund our share repurchase program, planned capital expenditures, and research and development efforts depends on our ability to generate and repatriate cash in the future. this is subject to factors beyond our control, including general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, governmental, and other factors described in this section. we cannot ensure that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. we cannot ensure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt, including our credit facility and the senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our ability to fund our share repurchase program is also dependent on our ability to repatriate our international cash flows. changes in governmental cash repatriation policies, restrictions, or tax laws could impair our ability to continue our share repurchase program. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk discussion of this item is included in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.