risk factors 9 risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully, in connection with all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks that follow are those that we think, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements. failure to execute our opportunistic buying strategy and inventory management could adversely affect our results. opportunistic buying, operating with lean inventory levels and frequent inventory turns are key elements of our off-price business strategy but subject us to risks related to the pricing, quantity, mix, nature, and timing of inventory flowing to our stores. our merchants are in the marketplace frequently, as much of our merchandise is purchased for the current or immediately upcoming season, and our focus on buying opportunistically places considerable discretion with them. our business model expects our merchants to effectively react to frequently changing opportunities and trends in the market, assess the desirability and value of merchandise and generally make determinations of how and what we source as well as when and from where we source it. if we do not obtain the right merchandise at the right times, in the right quantities, at the right prices and in the right mix, our customer traffic, as well as our sales and margins, could be adversely affected. we base our purchases of inventory, in part, on our sales forecasts. if our sales forecasts do not match customer demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and need to take markdowns on excess or slow-moving inventory, or we may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, either of which could adversely affect our financial performance. if we are unable to generally purchase inventory at prices sufficiently below prices paid by conventional retailers, we may not be able to maintain a sufficient overall pricing differential to full-price retailers, including department, specialty, and major online retailers, and our ability to attract customers or sustain our margins may be adversely affected. we may not achieve this pricing differential at various times or in some reporting segments, chains, product categories or geographies, which could adversely affect our results. to respond to customer demand and effectively manage pricing and markdowns, we need to appropriately allocate and deliver merchandise to our stores, maintain an appropriate mix and level of inventory in each store, and be flexible in our allocation of floor space at our stores among product categories. if we are not able to do so, our ability to attract and retain customers and our results could be adversely affected. failure to continue to expand our business and operations successfully or to manage our substantial size and scale effectively could adversely affect our financial results. our growth strategy includes successfully expanding within our current markets and into new geographic regions, product lines, and channels and, as appropriate, adding new businesses, whether by development, investment or acquisition. managing growth effectively can be difficult. if any aspect of our expansion strategy does not achieve the success we expect, in whole or in part, we may fail to meet our financial performance expectations and/or may be required to increase investments, slow our planned growth or close stores or operations. various circumstances could adversely affect our expansion plans. for example, if we are not able to find and lease appropriate real estate on attractive terms in the locations where we seek to open stores, we may need to change our planned growth in those areas. similarly, new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores, whether in current or new markets; our financial performance in new markets may not be the same as in existing markets; and adding stores or banners to existing markets may otherwise adversely affect our sales and profitability in those markets. further, our substantial size can make it challenging to manage our complex operations effectively and to maintain appropriate internal resources and third party providers to support our business effectively. these challenges increase as we grow our business, and may add pressure to management and to various functions across our business, including administration, systems (including information technology systems), merchandising, store operations, distribution, logistics, and compliance. increasing our size and complexity may also put additional pressure on appropriately staffing and training associates in these areas and/or managing appropriate third party providers that support these areas. the large size and scale of our operations, our multiple banners and locations across the u.s., canada, europe and australia and the autonomy afforded to the banners in some aspects of the business also increase the risk that our systems, controls, practices and policies may not be implemented effectively or consistently throughout our company and that information may not be appropriately shared across our operations. these risks may increase as we continue to grow, particularly if we expand into additional countries. if business information is not shared effectively, or if we are otherwise unable to manage our size or growth effectively, our business may be adversely affected or we may need to reduce the rate of expansion or otherwise curtail growth, which may adversely affect our business plans, sales and results. 9 failure to identify consumer trends and preferences, or to otherwise meet customer demand, in new or existing markets or channels could negatively impact our performance. as our success depends on our ability to meet customer demand and expectations, we work to identify consumer trends and preferences on an ongoing basis and to offer inventory and shopping experiences that meet those trends and preferences. however, we may not do so effectively and on a timely basis across our diverse merchandise categories and in each of the many markets in the u.s., canada, europe and australia in which we do business. trends and preferences in markets may differ from what we anticipate. although our business model allows us greater flexibility than many traditional retailers to meet consumer preferences and trends (for example, by expanding and contracting merchandise categories in response to consumers' changing tastes), we may not successfully do so, which could add difficulty in attracting new customers, retaining existing customers and encouraging frequent customer visits and could adversely affect our results. customers may also have expectations about how they shop in stores or through e-commerce or more generally engage with businesses across different channels (for example, through various digital platforms), which expectations may vary across demographics and geographies and may evolve rapidly. meeting these expectations effectively involves identifying the right opportunities and making the right investments at the right time and with the right speed, among other things, and failure to do so may impact our financial results. if we fail to successfully implement our various marketing efforts or if our competitors' programs are more effective than ours, our revenue or results of operations may be adversely affected. customer traffic and demand for our merchandise may be influenced by our marketing efforts. although we use marketing to drive customer traffic through various media including television, radio, print, outdoor, digital/social media, email, mobile and direct mail, some of our competitors expend more for their programs than we do, or use different approaches than we do, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. further, we may not effectively implement strategies with respect to rapidly evolving digital communication channels. our programs may not be or remain effective or could require increased expenditures, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. we operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to compete effectively. the retail apparel and home fashion businesses are highly competitive. we compete with local, regional, national and international retailers that sell apparel, home fashions and other merchandise that we sell, including retailers that operate through stores, e-commerce, catalogues and/or other media or channels. some of our competitors are larger than we are or have more experience in selling certain product lines or through certain channels than we do. new competitors frequently enter the market. additionally, existing competitors enter or increase their presence in markets in which we operate, may consolidate with other retailers, and may expand their merchandise offerings, add new sales channels or change their pricing strategies, all of which affect the competitive landscape, which can be volatile. consumer spending online has increased and may continue to increase, while our business is primarily in stores. we compete on the basis of various factors affecting value, meaning the combination of brand, fashion, price, and quality as well as merchandise selection and freshness; banner name recognition and appeal; both in-store and online service and shopping experience; convenience and store location. if we fail to compete effectively, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. economic conditions, on a global level or in particular markets, may adversely affect our financial performance. global financial markets can experience volatility, disruption and credit contraction, which could adversely affect global economic conditions. turmoil in the financial, equity and credit markets or other changes in economic conditions could adversely affect sources of liquidity available to us or our costs of capital and could adversely affect plan asset values and investment performance, and increase our pension liabilities, expenses and funding requirements and other related financial exposure with respect to company-sponsored and multiemployer pension plans. our strategies for managing these financial risks and exposures may not be effective or sufficient or may expose us to risk. economic conditions, both on a global level and in particular markets, including unemployment levels; availability of disposable income and actual and perceived wealth; health care costs; costs of oil, gas and other commodities; interest and tax rates and policies; weakness in the housing market; volatility in capital markets; credit availability; inflation and deflation, as well as political or other factors beyond our control such as threats or possibilities of war, terrorism, global or national unrest; actual or threatened pandemics or epidemics, such as the ongoing covid-19 pandemic; geopolitical instability or uncertainty; and regulatory volatility or uncertainty, including in areas such as international trade (for example, the uncertainty related to u.s. trade policy and the implementation of tariff policies, as well as ongoing discussions and uncertainty related to negotiations following the u.k.'s withdrawal in january 2020 from the european union, commonly referred to as brexit ) may also have significant effects on consumer confidence and spending that would, in turn, affect our business or the retail industry generally. these conditions and factors could adversely affect discretionary consumer spending or shift trends in consumer spending and, although we believe our flexible off-price model helps us react to such trends, they may adversely affect our sales, cash flows, merchandise orders, and results of operations and performance. 10 our business may be materially and adversely affected by the ongoing covid-19 pandemic. in december 2019, covid-19 emerged and has subsequently spread worldwide. the world health organization has declared covid-19 a pandemic resulting in federal, state and local governments and private entities mandating various restrictions, including travel restrictions, restrictions on public gatherings, stay at home orders and advisories and quarantining of people who may have been exposed to the virus. after close monitoring and taking into consideration the guidance from federal, state and local governments, in an effort to mitigate the spread of covid-19, effective march 19, 2020, the company closed all of its stores for at least two weeks and has temporarily closed its online businesses, its distribution centers and its offices with associates working remotely where possible. the company continues to monitor developments, including government requirements and recommendations at the national, state, and local level to evaluate possible extensions to all or part of such closures. the temporary closure of our stores, online businesses, distribution centers and offices are expected to have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position and liquidity. for example, although our day-to-day operations have been disrupted, we have incurred and may continue to incur labor costs during these closures. in addition, after some or all of our stores re-open, any significant reduction in our customers' willingness to shop our stores, the levels of our customers' spending at our stores or our associates' willingness to staff our stores and distribution centers, as a result of health concerns related to covid-19 or its impact on the economy and consumer discretionary spending may impact our business operations, financial performance and liquidity. the extent of the impact of covid-19 on our business is highly uncertain and difficult to predict, as information is rapidly evolving with respect to the duration and severity of the pandemic and the response to contain it. labor costs, including wage, pension and healthcare costs, and other challenges from our large workforce may adversely affect our results and profitability. we have a large workforce, and our ability to meet our labor needs and control labor costs is subject to various factors such as minimum wage laws and benefits requirements; market pressures, including prevailing wage rates and benefit levels and unemployment levels; changing demographics; economic conditions; interest rate changes; actuarial assumptions and methods; the costs of providing and managing retirement, health and other employee benefits, including health and insurance costs; and a dynamic regulatory and policy environment, including with respect to health care, immigration, labor, employment, pension and other employee benefits, and taxes. any of these factors could increase our labor costs. increased labor costs may adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, when wage rates or benefit levels increase in a market, increasing our wages or benefits has negatively impacted and may continue to negatively impact our earnings. conversely, failing to offer competitive wages or benefits could adversely affect our ability to attract or retain sufficient or quality associates, causing our customer service or performance to suffer, which could negatively impact our results. many associates in our distribution centers are members of unions, and therefore we are subject to the risk of labor actions of various kinds, including work stoppage, as well as risks and potential material expenses associated with multiemployer plans, including from pension plan underfunding, benefit cuts, increased contribution or funding requirements, changes in plan terms, withdrawal liability, increased premium costs, or insolvency of other participating employers or governmental insurance programs. other associates in europe are members of works councils, which may subject us to additional requirements, actions or expense. costs related to these factors could adversely affect our business operations or financial results. failure to employ quality associates in appropriate numbers and to retain key associates and management could adversely affect our performance. our performance depends on recruiting, hiring, developing, training and retaining talented associates in key areas such as buying and management. we also need to employ capable, engaged associates in large numbers for our stores and distribution centers and, to a lesser extent, for other areas of our business, including information technology functions. we must constantly recruit new associates to fill entry level and part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover and at times find seasonal talent in sufficient numbers. the availability and skill of associates may differ across markets in which we do business and in new markets we enter, and we may be unable to manage our labor needs effectively. in addition, because of the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must provide significant internal training and development for key associates across the company, including within our buying organization. similar to other retailers, we face challenges in securing and retaining sufficient talent in management and other key areas for many reasons, including competition for talent in the retail industry and in various geographic markets. if we do not effectively attract qualified individuals, train them in our business model, support their development and retain them in sufficient numbers and at appropriate levels of the organization, our growth could be limited, and our performance could be adversely affected. 11 compromises of our data security, disruptions in our information technology systems, or failure to satisfy the information technology needs of our business could result in material loss or liability, materially impact our operating results or materially harm our reputation. our business depends on our information technology systems, which collect and process information of customers, associates and other persons, as well as information of our business and of our suppliers and service providers. we rely heavily on information technology systems, including those of suppliers and service providers, to manage all key aspects of our business, including planning, purchasing, sales, supply chain management, inventory management, point-of-sale processing, e-commerce, human resources, financial management, communications, safeguarding information, and compliance with legal obligations. this reliance requires us to accurately anticipate our current and future information technology needs and successfully develop, implement and maintain appropriate systems. our ongoing operations and successful growth are dependent on doing so, as well as the ongoing integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems, including related back-up systems. as is common in the retail industry, our information technology systems, as well as those of our suppliers and service providers, are targeted by attempts to access personal or sensitive information, attempts to steal money, and attempts to disrupt business. these attempts could include use of malware, ransomware, phishing, social engineering, denial-of-service attacks, exploitation of system vulnerabilities, employee malfeasance, digital and physical skimmers, account takeovers, and other forms of cyber attacks. these attempts are becoming increasingly sophisticated, heightening the risk of compromise or disruption. our and our suppliers' and service providers' information technology systems also may be damaged or disrupted, or personal or sensitive information compromised, from a number of other causes, including power outages, system failures, catastrophic events, or employee inadvertence. such damage, disruption or compromise could materially impair our ability to operate our business or otherwise result in material impacts on our operating results. in addition, the global regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, and unauthorized access of personal or sensitive information could result in regulatory enforcement actions, class actions, contract liability, or other forms of material legal liability. any successful compromise or disruption of our information technology systems could result in material reputational harm and impact our customers' willingness to shop in our stores or online and/or our suppliers' willingness to do business with us. we maintain policies, procedures, and controls designed to reduce the risk of data security compromises and information technology failures or disruptions. while we have implemented measures designed to further strengthen these policies, procedures and controls since the unauthorized intrusions into our network discovered late in 2006, we may suffer a similar event in the future. these measures also require costly and ongoing investment in technologies, hiring, training, and compliance. there is a risk of material business disruption, liability and reputational damage associated with ongoing actions intended to update, enhance, modify or replace our systems and infrastructure, including from not accurately capturing and maintaining data, efficiently testing and implementing changes, realizing the expected benefit of the change and managing the potential disruption of the actions and diversion of internal teams' attention as the changes are implemented. damage to our corporate reputation or those of our retail banners could adversely affect our sales and operating results. we believe that building the brand reputation of our company and our retail banners is important to our continuing success. in the many different markets in which we do business, we work to build relationships with our customers through our various marketing campaigns and other activities. these relationships and our reputation are based, in part, on perceptions of subjective qualities. incidents involving us, our retail banners, our executives or other associates, our policies and practices, our third party providers, our vendors, the merchandise and brands (including our licensed or owned brands) that we carry or our industry more generally that erode trust or confidence could adversely affect our reputation and our business, particularly if the incidents result in rapid or significant adverse publicity, litigation or governmental inquiry. information about us, our retail banners, our executives and other associates, our board of directors, our policies and practices, our third party providers, our vendors, and the merchandise and brands we sell, including our licensed or owned brands, that is publicized through traditional or digital media platforms, including blogs, websites and other forums that facilitate rapid, broad communications to an audience of consumers and other interested persons, may adversely affect our reputation and brand, even if the information is inaccurate, incomplete or unverified. the reputation of our company and our retail banners may be damaged in a market or markets in which we do business by adverse events at the corporate level or at our retail banners, or by adverse events involving our directors, executives or other associates. similarly, challenges or reactions to action (or inaction), or perceived action (or inaction), by our company on issues like corporate social responsibility, our response to crises, including the covid-19 pandemic, responsible sourcing, environmental sustainability, human rights, politics and lobbying, privacy, merchandising, product safety, compensation and benefits, labor compliance, or other sensitive topics, and any perceived lack of transparency about such matters, could harm our reputation, particularly as expectations of companies and of companies' corporate responsibility obligations may continue to change. damage to the reputation of our company and our banners could result in declines in customer loyalty and sales; affect our vendor relationships, business development opportunities and our ability to attract and retain quality associates; divert attention and resources from management, including to respond to inquiries or additional regulatory scrutiny; and otherwise adversely affect our results. 12 quality, safety or other issues with merchandise we buy and sell could damage our reputation, sales and financial results. various governmental authorities in the jurisdictions where we do business regulate the quality and safety of the merchandise we import, transport and sell to consumers. regulations and standards in this area, including federal regulations related to the u.s. consumer product safety improvement act of 2008 and the u.s. food safety modernization act, state regulations like california's proposition 65, and similar legislation in other countries in which we operate, impose restrictions and requirements on the merchandise we buy and sell. these regulations change from time to time and new federal, state, provincial or local regulations in the u.s. and other countries that may affect our business are contemplated and enacted with some regularity. if we or our merchandise vendors are unable to comply with regulatory requirements on a timely basis or at all, or to adequately monitor new regulations that may apply to existing or new merchandise categories or in new geographies, we could incur significant fines or penalties or we could have to curtail some aspects of our sales or operations, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. we rely on our vendors to provide quality merchandise that complies with applicable product safety laws, labeling requirements and other applicable laws, but they may not comply with their obligations to do so. although our arrangements with our vendors frequently provide for indemnification for product liabilities, the vendors may fail to honor those obligations to an extent we consider sufficient or at all. in certain circumstances, we may bear some responsibility for compliance with applicable product safety laws, labeling requirements and other applicable laws. concerns or issues with the quality and safety of merchandise raised publicly, particularly with products subject to increased levels of regulation, or the genuineness of merchandise, regardless of whether verified or our fault, could cause damage to our reputation and could result in lost sales; uninsured claims or losses; merchandise recalls and increased costs; and regulatory, civil or criminal fines or penalties, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. failure to comply with laws, rules, regulations and orders and applicable accounting principles and interpretations could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance. we are subject to federal, state, provincial, regional and local laws, rules and regulations as well as government orders in various countries in which we operate. these legal, regulatory and administrative requirements collectively affect multiple aspects of our business, including the cost of providing health care and retirement benefits, workforce management, logistics, marketing, import/export, sourcing and manufacturing, tax, data protection and others. if we, or third parties that perform services on our behalf, fail to comply with applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders, we may be subject to judgments, fines or other costs or penalties, which could adversely affect our operations and our financial results and condition. complying with applicable laws, rules, regulations, orders and our own internal policies may also require us to spend additional time and resources to implement new procedures and financial and other controls, conduct audits, train associates and third parties on our compliance methods or take other actions, particularly as we continue to grow globally and enter new markets, countries or product categories, any of which could adversely impact our results. we are also subject to and must comply with new and changing laws, rules and regulations, evolving interpretations of existing laws by judicial and regulatory authorities, and reforms in jurisdictions where we do business. these changes could increase our costs of doing business and could adversely affect our operating results, including such changes involving: labor and employment practices and benefits, including for labor unions and works councils; climate change, energy and waste; supply chain, trade restrictions and logistics, including resulting from changes to requirements or policies from the outcome of brexit; health and welfare regulations; consumer protection and product safety; financial regulations; data protection and privacy, such as to comply with, or fines and penalties related to, the general data protection regulation in the european union and the california consumer privacy act; internet regulations, including e-commerce, electronic communications and privacy; and protection of intellectual property rights. particularly in a dynamic regulatory environment, anticipated changes to laws and regulations may require us to invest in compliance efforts or otherwise expend resources before changes are certain. for example, the ongoing uncertainty around brexit, including relating to the range of possible outcomes as the u.k. negotiates its post-brexit relationship with the european union, has required us to consider and in some cases implement strategies for mitigating potential disruptions to our supply chain. further, applicable accounting principles and interpretations may change from time to time, and the changes could have material effects on our future or previously reported financial results. 13 our results may be adversely affected by serious disruptions or catastrophic events, or public health crises, as well as adverse or unseasonable weather. natural or other disasters, such as hurricanes , tornadoes, floods, earthquakes and other extreme weather; climate conditions; unforeseen public health issues, such as pandemics and epidemics, including the ongoing covid-19 pandemic; or fires, explosions and acts of war or terrorism could disrupt our operations in a number of ways, including severely damaging or destroying one or more of our stores, distribution facilities, data centers or office facilities, or could disrupt the operations of, or require the closure of, one or more of our vendors or other parts of our supply chain located in the affected areas. day-to-day operations, including our ability to receive products from our vendors or third party service providers or transport products to our stores or to our e-commerce customers could be adversely affected, transportation to and from our stores (by customers or associates) could be limited, or we could close stores or distribution centers in the affected areas or in areas served by affected distribution centers for a short or extended period of time (as with closures of our stores and other facilities beginning in march 2020 and as we did in areas of the u.s., including puerto rico, after severe hurricanes during fiscal 2018). adverse weather can similarly affect our operations in impacted areas. adverse or unseasonable weather, such as storms, severe cold or heat or unseasonable temperatures (even if not extreme) may also affect customers' buying patterns and willingness to shop certain categories we offer or at all, and accordingly, can adversely affect the demand for the merchandise in our stores, particularly in apparel and seasonal merchandise, possibly impacting our sales and customer satisfaction with our stores and increasing markdowns. as a result, our business could be adversely affected. our expanding international operations expose us to risks inherent in operating in new countries. we have a significant retail presence in canada, australia and countries in europe. we also operate buying offices around the world. our goal is to continue to expand our operations into other countries in the future. it can be costly and complex to establish, develop and maintain international operations and promote business in new international jurisdictions, which may differ significantly from other countries in which we currently operate. just as with our current operations, there are risks inherent in opening and developing operations in new countries, such those related to compliance under the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. additional risks include, among others, understanding the local retail climate and trends, local customs and cultures, seasonal differences, business practices and competitive conditions; complying with relevant laws, rules and regulations; developing the appropriate infrastructure; identifying suitable partners for local operations and for integration with our global operations and effectively communicating and implementing company policies and practices in new, possibly remote, jurisdictions. there are also financial, regulatory and other risks associated with international operations, including currency exchange fluctuations; potentially adverse tax consequences; limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds outside of the country where earned; trade regulations; the risk of sudden policy or regulatory changes; the risk of political, economic and civil instability and labor unrest; and uncertainties regarding interpretation, application and enforceability of laws and agreements. any of these risks could adversely impact our operations, profitability or liquidity. we are subject to risks associated with sourcing merchandise from others, particularly where sourcing from other countries and moving merchandise internationally. we are subject to various risks of sourcing merchandise from others, particularly other countries, including risks related to moving merchandise internationally. many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our vendors and, to a lesser extent, by us, in locations, particularly southeastern asia, which are outside of the country where they will be sold. where we are the importer of record, we may be subject to regulatory or other requirements, including those similar to requirements imposed upon the manufacturer of such products. risks related to sourcing merchandise include: potential disruptions in manufacturing and supply; changes in duties, tariffs, trade restrictions, sanctions, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise, including, for example, tariffs and border adjustment taxes; changes to the united states mexico canada agreement, the successor to the north american free trade agreement, or successor or other trade agreements; or changes to trade requirements resulting from brexit; transport availability, capacity and costs; information technology challenges; problems in third-party distribution and warehousing, logistics, transportation and other supply chain interruptions; strikes, threats of strikes and other events affecting delivery; consumer perceptions of the safety or quality of imported merchandise; compliance with product laws and regulations of the destination country; 14 compliance with laws and regulations including changing labor, environmental, international trade and other laws in relevant countries and those concerning ethical business practices, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act; product liability claims from customers or penalties from government agencies relating to products that are recalled, defective or otherwise noncompliant or alleged to be harmful; intellectual property enforcement and infringement issues; pandemics and epidemics (including the ongoing covid-19 pandemic) affecting sourcing, including manufacturing, buying or delivery; concerns about human rights, working conditions and other labor rights and conditions in countries where merchandise is produced; concerns about transparent sourcing and supply chains; currency exchange rates and financial or economic instability; and political or other disruptions in countries from, to or through which merchandise is imported. these and other factors relating to sourcing, international trade and imported merchandise could affect the availability and the price of our inventory and our operating costs. furthermore, although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations relating to production of merchandise, international operations and importing merchandise, there can be no assurance that our associates and our contractors, agents, vendors or other third parties with whom we do business or to whom we outsource business operations will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies, which could subject us to liability and could adversely affect our reputation, operations or operating results. our results may be adversely affected by reduced availability of, or increases in, the price of oil or other fuels, increased costs of other commodities, or other increases in utility, transportation or logistics costs. energy and fuel costs can fluctuate dramatically and, at times, have resulted in significant cost increases, particularly for the price of oil and gasoline. an increase in the price of oil increases our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and costs to purchase our products from suppliers. although we typically enter into derivative instruments designed to manage a portion of our transportation costs (a hedging strategy), any such strategy may not be effective or sufficient and could result in increased operating costs. increased regulation related to environmental costs, including cap and trade, carbon taxes or other emissions management systems could also adversely affect our costs of doing business, including utility, transportation and logistics costs, as could other shortages or disruptions impacting transportation, such as those relating to trucking and freight hauling. for example, in recent years, increased freight cost related to labor and equipment shortages, as well as other factors, had an impact on our margins. similarly, other commodity prices can fluctuate dramatically. such increases can impact the cost of merchandise, which could adversely affect our performance through potentially reduced consumer demand or reduced margins. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may lead to lower revenues and earnings. sales made by our stores outside the united states are denominated in the currency of the country in which the store is located, and changes in currency exchange rates affect the translation of the sales and earnings of these businesses into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. because of this, movements in currency exchange rates have had and are expected to continue to have a significant impact on our consolidated and segment results from time to time. changes in currency exchange rates can also increase the cost of inventory purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the local currency of the business buying the merchandise. when exchange rates change significantly in a short period or move unfavorably over an extended period, it can be difficult for us to adjust retail prices accordingly, and gross margin can be adversely affected. for example, a significant amount of merchandise we offer for sale is made in china and accordingly, a revaluation of chinese currency, or increased market flexibility in the exchange rate for that currency, increasing its value relative to the u.s. dollar or currencies in which our stores are located, could be significant. additionally, we routinely enter into inventory-related derivative instruments (a hedging strategy) to mitigate the impact of currency exchange rates on merchandise margins of merchandise purchases by our segments denominated in currencies other than their local currencies. in accordance with gaap, we evaluate the fair value of these derivative instruments and make mark-to-market adjustments at the end of each accounting period. these adjustments are of a much greater magnitude when there is significant volatility in currency exchange rates and may have a significant impact on our earnings. 15 although we implement foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in currency exchange rates, we expect that currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations from time to time. in addition, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our earnings and operating results if a counterparty to one of our hedging arrangements fails to perform. our quarterly operating results fluctuate and may fall short of prior periods, our projections or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could adversely affect our stock price. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter at points in the past, and they may do so in the future. if we fail to increase our results over prior periods, to achieve our projected results or to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decline, and the decrease in the stock price may be disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance. results may be affected by various factors, including those described in these risk factors. we maintain a forecasting process that seeks to plan sales and align expenses. if we do not control costs or appropriately adjust costs to actual results, or if actual results differ significantly from our forecast, our financial performance could be adversely affected. in addition, if we do not repurchase the number of shares we contemplated pursuant to our stock repurchase programs, our earnings per share may be adversely affected. if we engage in mergers or acquisitions or investments in new businesses, or divest, close or consolidate any of our current businesses, our business will be subject to additional risks. we may acquire new businesses (as we did with our australia business in fiscal 2016 and sierra in fiscal 2013), invest in other businesses (as we did with our minority investment interest in privately held familia, a russian off-price apparel and home fashions retailer, in fiscal 2020) or enter into joint ventures with other businesses, develop new businesses internally (as with homesense, our u.s. home store concept launched in fiscal 2018) and divest, close or consolidate businesses. failure to execute on mergers, acquisitions, investments, divestitures, closings and consolidations in a satisfactory manner could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. acquisition, investment or divestiture activities may divert attention of management from operating the existing businesses, and we may not effectively evaluate target companies, investments or investment partners or assess the risks, benefits and costs of buying, investing in or closing businesses or of the integration of acquired businesses, all of which can be difficult, time-consuming and dilutive. these activities may not meet our performance and other expectations and may expose us to unexpected or greater-than-expected costs, liabilities and risks. in addition, we recorded intangible assets and goodwill and the value of the tradenames in connection with our last acquisitions and may similarly do so in the future in connection with other acquisitions. if we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions, we may be required to impair some or all of the goodwill associated with an acquisition, which would adversely impact our results of operations and balance sheet, such as with the impairment charge related to sierra taken during fiscal 2018. divestitures, closings and consolidations could involve risks such as significant costs and obligations of closure, including exposure on leases, owned real estate and other contractual, employment, pension and severance obligations, and potential liabilities that may arise under law as a result of the disposition or the subsequent failure of an acquirer. our results may be materially adversely affected by the outcomes of litigation, legal proceedings and other legal or regulatory matters. we are involved, or may in the future become involved, in legal proceedings, regulatory reviews, audits and other legal matters. these may involve inquiries, investigations, lawsuits and other proceedings by local, provincial, state and federal governmental entities (in the united states and other countries) and private plaintiffs, including with respect to employment and employee benefits (such as classification, employment rights, discrimination, wage and hour and retaliation); whistleblower claims; harassment claims; tax; securities; disclosure; real estate; environmental matters; hazardous materials and hazardous waste; tort; business practices; consumer protection; privacy/data security; product safety and compliance; advertising; and intellectual property. there continue to be employment-related and consumer protection lawsuits, including putative class actions, in the united states, and we are subject to these types of suits. we cannot predict the results of legal and regulatory proceedings with certainty, and actual results may differ from any reserves we establish estimating the probable outcome. regardless of merit or outcome, these proceedings can be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and may cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. legal, regulatory and other proceedings could expose us to significant defense costs, fines, penalties and liability to private parties and governmental entities for monetary recoveries and other amounts and attorneys' fees and/or require us to change aspects of our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 16 as our business is subject to seasonal influences, a decrease in sales or margins, a severe disruption or other significant event that impacts our business during the second half of the year could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results. our business is subject to seasonal influences; we generally realize higher levels of sales and earnings in the second half of the year, which includes the back-to-school and year-end holiday seasons. any decrease in sales or margins or any significant adverse event during this period, including those described in this section, could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our results of operations. we depend upon strong cash flows from our operations to supply capital to fund our operations, growth, stock repurchases and dividends and interest and debt repayment. our business depends upon our operations to continue to generate strong cash flow to supply capital to support our general operating activities, to fund our growth and our return of cash to stockholders through our stock repurchase programs and dividends, and to pay our interest and debt repayments. for example, as a result of the ongoing covid-19 pandemic, we temporarily closed our stores beginning in march 2020. we also suspended our share repurchase program. in addition the company does not intend to declare a dividend for the first quarter of fiscal 2021, and we continue to evaluate our dividend program in the near term. our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities or to repatriate cash from our international operations in a manner that is cost effective could adversely affect our growth plans, capital expenditures, operating expenses, and financial performance including our earnings per share. changes in the capital and credit markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, and interest rate fluctuations may increase the cost of financing or restrict our access to these potential sources of liquidity. our continued access to these liquidity sources on favorable terms depends on multiple factors, including our operating performance and maintaining strong credit ratings. we borrow on occasion to finance our activities and if financing were not available to us in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms when needed, it could also adversely affect our financial performance. failure to protect our inventory or other assets from loss and theft may impact our financial results. risk of loss or theft of assets, including inventory shrinkage, is inherent in the retail business. loss may be caused by error or misconduct of associates, customers, vendors or third parties. our inability to effectively combat and/or minimize the loss or theft of assets, or to effectively reduce the impact of those losses, could adversely affect our financial performance. tax matters could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our effective income tax rate and future tax liability could be adversely affected by numerous factors including the results of tax audits and examinations, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory income tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory income tax rates, changes in income tax rates, changes in transfer pricing, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in applicable tax legislation, regulations, treaties and other guidance, and changes in accounting principles and interpretations relating to tax matters, any of which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition in future periods. the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the 2017 tax act ) significantly revised the previous federal income tax code. additional interpretive guidance has been and will continue to be issued with respect to the 2017 tax act, and such guidance may be different from our interpretation and thus adversely affect our results. in addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the 2017 tax act, which could also impact our tax obligations. significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our worldwide provision and accruals for taxes, and actual results may differ from our estimations. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns and reports by federal, state, provincial and local tax authorities in the u.s. and foreign countries, and the examining authorities may challenge positions we take. we are engaged in various proceedings, which are at various stages, with such authorities with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these proceedings to determine the adequacy and appropriateness of our provision for income taxes, and increase and decrease our provision as a result of these assessments. however, developments in and actual results of proceedings, rulings or settlements by or with tax authorities or courts (including due to changes in facts, law or legal interpretations, expiration of applicable statutes of limitations or other resolutions of tax positions) could result in amounts that differ from those we have accrued for such proceedings in either a positive or a negative manner, which could materially affect our effective income tax rate in a given financial period, the amount of taxes we are required to pay and our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to tax audits and examinations for payroll, value added, sales-based and other taxes relating to our businesses. 17 our real estate leases generally obligate us for long periods, which subjects us to financial risks. we lease virtually all of our store locations and either own or lease for long periods our primary distribution centers and administrative offices. accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with leasing and owning real estate, which can adversely affect our results. while we have the right to terminate some of our leases under specified conditions, including by making specified payments, we may not be able to terminate a particular lease if or when we would like to do so. if we decide or are required to close stores, we are generally required to continue to perform obligations under the applicable leases, which generally include, among other things, paying rent and operating expenses for the balance of the lease term, or paying to exercise rights to terminate, and the performance of any of these obligations may be expensive. when we assign leases or sublease space to third parties, or if we sell a business, we can remain liable on the lease obligations if the assignee or sublessee does not perform (as was the case with some of our former operations). in addition, when the lease terms for the stores in our ongoing operations expire, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores or to relocate stores within a market on less favorable terms or in a less favorable location. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk tjx is exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of business. some potential market risks are discussed below: foreign currency exchange risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk on the translation of our foreign operations into the u.s. dollar and on purchases of goods in currencies that are not the local currencies of stores where the goods are sold and on intercompany debt and interest payable between and among our domestic and international operations. our currency risk primarily relates to our activity in the canadian dollar, british pound and euro. as more fully described in note e financial instruments of notes to consolidated financial statements, we use derivative financial instruments to hedge a portion of certain merchandise purchase commitments, primarily at our international operations, and a portion of our intercompany transactions with and within our international operations. we enter into derivative contracts only for the purpose of hedging the underlying economic exposure. we utilize currency forward and swap contracts, designed to offset the gains or losses on the underlying exposures. the contracts are executed with banks we believe are creditworthy and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. our foreign exchange risk management policy prohibits us from using derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and we do not use any leveraged derivative financial instruments. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates applied to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above as well as the translation of our foreign operations into our reporting currency. as of february 1, 2020 and february 2, 2019, the analysis indicated that such an adverse movement would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position but could have reduced our pre-tax income by approximately $82 million and $84 million, in fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. equity price and other market risk the assets of our funded qualified pension plan, a portion of which are equity securities, are subject to the risks and uncertainties of the financial markets. we invest the pension assets (described further in note i pension plans and other retirement benefits of notes to consolidated financial statements) in a manner that attempts to manage our exposure to market uncertainties. investments, in general, are exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit, and overall market volatility risks. a significant decline in the financial markets could adversely affect the value of our pension plan assets and the funded status of our pension plan, resulting in increased required contributions to the plan or other plan-related liabilities. our pension plan investment policy prohibits the use of derivatives for speculative purposes.risk factors risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully, in connection with all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks that follow, individually or in the aggregate, are those that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements. global economic conditions may adversely affect our financial performance. in 2009, economies worldwide were in crisis, and global financial markets experienced extreme volatility, disruption and credit contraction. the volatility and disruption to the capital markets significantly adversely affected global economic conditions, resulting in additional significant recessionary pressures and declines in employment levels, disposable income and actual and perceived wealth. although there has been some recent improvement, continuing or worsened adverse economic conditions, including higher unemployment, energy and health care costs, interest rates and taxes and tighter credit, could continue to affect consumer confidence and discretionary consumer spending adversely and may adversely affect our sales, cash flows and results of operations. additionally, renewed financial turmoil in the financial and credit markets could adversely affect our costs of capital and the sources of liquidity available to us and could increase our pension funding requirements. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may lead to lower revenues and earnings. in addition to our u.s. businesses, we operate stores in canada and europe and plan to continue to expand our international operations. sales made by our stores outside the united states are denominated in the currency of the country in which the store is located, and changes in foreign exchange rates affect the translation of the sales and earnings of these businesses into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. because of this, movements in exchange rates have had and are expected to continue to have a significant impact on our net sales and earnings. additionally, we routinely enter into inventory-related hedging instruments to mitigate the impact of foreign exchange on merchandise margins of merchandise purchased by our international segments that is denominated in currencies other than their local currencies. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we evaluate the fair value of these hedging instruments and make mark-to-market adjustments at the end of an accounting period. these adjustments are of a much greater magnitude when there is significant volatility in currency exchange rates and may have a significant impact on our earnings. in addition, changes in foreign exchange rates can increase the cost of inventory purchases by our businesses that are denominated in a currency other than the local currency of the business. when these changes occur suddenly, it can be difficult for us to adjust retail prices accordingly, and gross margin can be adversely affected. although we implement foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign exchange rates, we expect that foreign currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations. 9 table of contents failure to execute our opportunistic buying and inventory management could adversely affect our business. we purchase the majority of our apparel inventory and much of our home inventory opportunistically with our buyers purchasing close to need. to drive traffic to the stores and to increase same store sales, the treasure hunt nature of the off-price buying experience requires continued replenishment of fresh, high quality, attractively priced merchandise in our stores. while opportunistic buying provides our buyers the ability to buy at desirable times and prices, in the quantities we need and into market trends, it places considerable discretion in our buyers, subjecting us to risks on the timing, pricing, quantity and nature of inventory flowing to the stores. in addition, we base our purchases of inventory, in part, on sales forecasts. if our sales forecasts do not match customer demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and decreased profit margins if we have excess or slow-moving inventory, or we may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, either of which could adversely affect our financial performance. in addition to acquiring inventory, we must properly execute our inventory management strategies through effectively allocating merchandise among our stores, timely and efficiently distributing inventory to stores, maintaining an appropriate mix and level of inventory in stores, appropriately changing the allocation of floor space of stores among product categories to respond to customer demand and effectively managing pricing and markdowns. failure to execute our opportunistic inventory buying and inventory management well could adversely affect our performance and our relationship with our customers. failure to continue to expand our operations successfully could adversely affect our financial results. we have steadily expanded the number of concepts and stores we operate. our revenue growth is dependent, among other things, upon our ability to continue to expand successfully through new store openings as well as our ability to increase same store sales. successful store growth requires acquisition and development of appropriate real estate including selection of store locations in appropriate geographies, availability of attractive stores or store sites in such locations and negotiation of acceptable terms. competition for desirable sites, increases in real estate, construction and development costs and availability and costs of capital could limit our ability to open new stores in desirable locations in the future or adversely affect the economics of new stores. we may encounter difficulties in attracting customers in new markets for various reasons including customers lack of familiarity with our brands or our lack of familiarity with local customer preferences and cultural differences. new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores, and new and existing stores in a market area may adversely affect each other sales and profitability. further, expansion places significant demands on the administrative, merchandising, store operations, distribution and other organizations in our businesses to manage rapid growth, and we may not do so successfully. failure to successfully identify customer trends and preferences to meet customer demand could negatively impact our performance. because our success depends on our ability to meet customer demand, we take various steps to keep up with customer trends and preferences including contacts with vendors, monitoring product category and fashion trends and comparison shopping. our flexible business model allows us to buy close to need and in response to consumer preferences and trends and to expand and contract merchandise categories in response to consumers changing tastes. however, identifying consumer trends and preferences and successfully meeting customer demand is challenging, and we may not successfully do so, which could adversely affect our results. our quarterly operating results can be subject to significant fluctuations and may fall short of either a prior quarter or investors expectations. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter at points in the past, and they may continue to do so in the future. our earnings may not continue to grow at rates we plan and may fall short of either a prior quarter or investors expectations. if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our share price may decline. factors that could cause us not to meet our securities analysts or investors earnings expectations include some factors that are within our control, such as the execution of our off-price buying; selection, pricing and mix of merchandise; and inventory management including flow, markon and markdowns; and some factors that are not within our control, including actions of competitors, weather conditions, economic conditions, consumer confidence and seasonality. in addition, if we do not repurchase the number of shares we contemplate pursuant to our stock repurchase program, our earnings per share may be adversely affected. most of our operating expenses, such as rent expense and associate salaries, do not vary directly with the amount of sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. as a result, if sales in a particular 10 table of contents quarter are below expectations for that quarter, we may not proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore such a sales shortfall would have a disproportionate effect on our net income for the quarter. we maintain a forecasting process that seeks to project sales and align expenses. if we do not correctly forecast sales or appropriately adjust to actual results, our financial performance could be adversely affected. our future performance is dependent upon our ability to continue to expand within our existing markets and to extend our off-price model in new product lines, chains and geographic regions. our strategy is to continue to expand within existing markets and to expand to new markets and geographies. this growth strategy includes developing new ways to sell more or different merchandise within our existing stores, continued expansion of our existing chains in our existing markets and countries, expansion of these chains to new markets and countries, and development and opening of new chains, all of which entail significant risk. our growth is dependent upon our ability to successfully extend our off-price retail apparel and home fashions concepts in these ways. unsuccessful extension of our model could adversely affect future growth or financial performance. failure to implement our marketing, advertising and promotional programs successfully, or if our competitors are more effective with their programs than we are, may adversely affect our revenue. we use marketing, advertising and promotional programs to attract customers to our stores. we use various media for these programs, including print, television, database marketing and direct marketing. some of our competitors may have substantially larger expenditures for their programs, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to execute our marketing, advertising and promotional programs effectively, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. compromises of our data security could materially harm our reputation and business. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store certain personal information from individuals, such as our customers and associates, and we process customer payment card and check information. we suffered an unauthorized intrusion or intrusions (such intrusion or intrusions, collectively, the computer intrusion ) into portions of our computer system that process and store information related to customer transactions, discovered late in fiscal 2007 in which we believe customer data were stolen. we have taken steps designed to further strengthen the security of our computer system and protocols and have instituted an ongoing program with respect to data security, consistent with a consent order with the federal trade commission. nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer a future data compromise. we rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. further, the systems currently used for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, all of which can put payment card data at risk, are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, not by us. this is also true for check information and approval. computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our computer system and, if successful, misappropriate personal information, payment card or check information or confidential company business information. in addition, a company associate, contractor or other third party with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain such information may or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and other developments may increase the risk of such a breach. any such compromise of our data security and loss of personal or business information could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and customers willingness to shop in our stores, violate applicable laws, regulations, orders and agreements, and subject us to additional costs and liabilities which could be material. our business is subject to seasonal influences; a decrease in sales or margins during the second half of the year could disproportionately adversely affect our operating results. our business is subject to seasonal influences; we generally realize higher levels of sales and income in the second half of the year, which includes the back-to-school and year-end holiday seasons. any decrease in sales or margins during this period could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our results of operations. 11 table of contents we may experience risks associated with our substantial size and scale. we operate eight retail chains in the u.s., canada and europe. some aspects of the businesses and operations of the chains are conducted with relative autonomy. the large size of our operations, our multiple businesses and the autonomy afforded to the chains increase the risk that systems and practices will not be implemented uniformly throughout our company and that information will not be appropriately shared across different chains and countries. unseasonable weather in the markets in which our stores operate or our distribution centers are located could adversely affect our operating results. adverse and unseasonable weather affects customers willingness to shop and their demand for the merchandise in our stores. severe weather could also affect our ability to transport merchandise to our stores from our distribution centers. as a result, frequent, unusually heavy, unseasonable or untimely weather in our markets, such as snow, ice or rain storms, severe cold or heat or extended periods of unseasonable temperatures, could adversely affect our sales and increase markdowns. our results may be adversely affected by serious disruptions or catastrophic events. unforeseen public health issues, such as pandemics and epidemics, as well as natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes and other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, could disrupt the operations of one or more of our vendors or could severely damage or destroy one or more of our stores or distribution facilities located in the affected areas. our ability to receive products from our vendors or transport products to our stores could be adversely affected or we could be required to close stores or distribution centers in the affected areas or in areas served by the affected distribution center. as a result, our business could be adversely affected. we operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to compete effectively. the retail apparel and home fashion business is highly competitive. we compete with many other local, regional, national and international retailers that sell apparel, home fashions and other merchandise that we sell, whether in stores, through catalogues or media or over the internet. we compete on the basis of fashion, quality, price, value, merchandise selection and freshness, brand name recognition, service, reputation and store location. other competitive factors that influence the demand for our merchandise include our advertising, marketing and promotional activities and the name recognition and reputation of our chains. if we fail to compete effectively, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. failure to attract and retain quality sales, distribution center and other associates in appropriate numbers as well as experienced buying and management personnel could adversely affect our performance. our performance depends on recruiting, developing, training and retaining quality sales, distribution center and other associates in large numbers as well as experienced buying and management personnel. many of our associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. the nature of the workforce in the retail industry subjects us to the risk of immigration law violations, which risk has increased in recent years. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling labor costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and governmental labor and employment requirements. in the event of increasing wage rates, if we fail to increase our wages competitively, the quality of our workforce could decline, causing our customer service to suffer, while increasing our wages could cause our earnings to decrease. in addition, certain associates in our distribution centers are members of unions and therefore subject us to the risk of labor actions. because of the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must do significant internal training and development for a substantial number of our associates. the market for retail management is highly competitive and, in common with other retailers, we face challenges in securing sufficient management talent. if we do not continue to attract and retain quality associates and management personnel, our performance could be adversely affected. 12 table of contents if we engage in mergers or acquisitions of new businesses, or divest any of our current businesses, our business will be subject to additional risks. we have grown our business in part through mergers and acquisitions and may acquire new businesses or divest current businesses. acquisition or divestiture activities may divert attention of management from operating the existing businesses. we may do a less-than-optimal job of evaluating target companies and their risks and benefits, and integration of acquisitions can be difficult and time-consuming. acquisitions may not meet our performance and other expectations or may expose us to unexpected or greater-than-expected liabilities and risks. divestiture also involves risks, such as the risks of exposure on lease obligations, obligations undertaken in the disposition and potential liabilities that may arise under law as a result of the disposition or the subsequent failure of the acquirer. failure to execute on mergers or divestitures in a satisfactory manner could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. failure to operate information systems and implement new technologies effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability. the efficient operation and successful growth of our business depends on our information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and to select and implement new technologies, systems, controls and adequate disaster recovery systems successfully. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business or subject us to liability and thereby harm our profitability. we depend upon strong cash flows from our operations to supply capital to fund our expansion, operations, interest and debt repayment, stock repurchases and dividends. our business depends upon our operations to generate strong cash flow, and to some extent upon the availability of financing sources, to supply capital to fund our expansions, general operating activities, stock repurchases, dividends, interest and debt repayment. our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities or the lack of availability of financing in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms when needed could adversely affect our financial performance including our earnings per share. general economic and other factors may adversely affect consumer spending, which could adversely affect our sales and operating results. interest rates; recession; inflation; deflation; consumer credit availability; consumer debt levels; energy costs; tax rates and policy; unemployment trends; threats or possibilities of war, terrorism or other global or national unrest; actual or threatened epidemics; political or financial instability; and general economic, political and other factors beyond our control have significant effects on consumer confidence and spending. consumer spending, in turn, affects sales at retailers, which may include tjx. although we benefit from being an off-price retailer, these factors could adversely affect our sales and performance if we are not able to implement strategies to mitigate them promptly and successfully. issues with merchandise quality or safety could damage our reputation, sales and financial results. various governmental authorities in the jurisdictions where we do business regulate the quality and safety of the merchandise we sell in our stores. regulations and standards in this area, including those related to the consumer product safety improvement act of 2008 in the united states, may change from time to time. our inability to comply on a timely basis with regulatory requirements could result in significant fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. issues with the quality and safety and genuineness of merchandise, regardless of our fault, or customer concerns about such issues, could cause damage to our reputation and could result in lost sales, uninsured product liability claims or losses, merchandise recalls and increased costs, and regulatory, civil or criminal fines or penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 13 table of contents we are subject to import risks associated with importing merchandise from abroad. many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our vendors and, to a limited extent, by us, in many foreign countries. as a result, we are subject to the various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: potential disruptions in supply; changes in duties, tariffs, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise; strikes and other events affecting delivery; consumer perceptions of the safety of imported merchandise; product compliance with laws and regulations of the destination country; concerns about human rights, working conditions and other labor rights and conditions in foreign countries where merchandise is produced; compliance with laws and regulations concerning ethical business practices, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act; and economic, political or other problems in countries from or through which merchandise is imported. political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, labor conditions, transport capacity and costs, compliance with u.s. and foreign laws and regulations and other factors relating to international trade and imported merchandise beyond our control could affect the availability and the price of our inventory. furthermore, although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations relating to doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, there can be no assurance that our associates, contractors, agents, vendors or other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies, which could adversely affect our operations or operating results. our expanding international operations increasingly expose us to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. we have a significant retail presence in canada and europe, as well as buying offices around the world, and our goal as a global retailer is to continue to expand into other international markets in the future. our foreign operations encounter risks similar to those faced by our u.s. operations, as well as risks inherent in foreign operations, such as understanding the retail climate and trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets, complying with foreign laws, rules and regulations, and foreign currency fluctuations, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. our results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the price of oil. prices of oil have fluctuated dramatically in the past. fluctuations may result in an increase in our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and costs to purchase our products from suppliers. continued volatility in oil prices could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products and increase our operating costs, both of which could have an adverse effect on our performance. failure to comply with existing laws, regulations and orders or changes in existing laws and regulations could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance. we are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws, rules and regulations in the united states and abroad, any of which may change from time to time, as well as orders and assurances. if we fail to comply with these laws, rules, regulations and orders, we may be subject to fines or other penalties, which could materially adversely affect our operations and our financial results and condition. we must also comply with new and changing laws. further, u.s. gaap may change from time to time, and these changes could have material effects on our reported financial results and condition. in addition, there have been a large number of new legislative and regulatory initiatives and reforms introduced in the u.s., and the initiatives and reforms that have been and may be enacted may increase our costs. 14 table of contents our results may be materially adversely affected by the outcomes of litigation and other legal proceedings. we are periodically involved in various legal proceedings, which may involve local state and federal government inquiries and investigations; tax, employment, real estate, tort, consumer litigation and intellectual property litigation; or other disputes. in addition, we may be subject to investigations and other proceedings by regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, consumer protection laws, advertising regulations, escheat and employment and wage and hour regulations. results of legal and regulatory proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty and may differ from reserves we make estimating the probable outcome. regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations could expose us to significant defense costs, fines, penalties and liability to private parties and governmental entities for monetary recoveries and other amounts and attorneys fees and/or require us to change aspects of our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our real estate leases generally obligate us for long periods, which subjects us to various financial risks. we lease virtually all of our store locations, generally for long terms and either own or lease for long periods our primary distribution centers and administrative offices. accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. while we have the right to terminate some of our leases under specified conditions by making specified payments, we may not be able to terminate a particular lease if or when we would like to do so. if we decide to close stores, we may be required to continue to perform obligations under the applicable leases, which may include, among other things, paying rent and operating expenses for the balance of the lease term, or paying to exercise rights to terminate, and the performance of any of these obligations may be expensive. when we assign or sublease leases, we can remain liable on the lease obligations if the assignee or sublessee does not perform. in addition, when leases expire, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores. our stock price may fluctuate based on market expectations. the public trading of our stock is based in large part on market expectations that our business will continue to grow and that we will achieve certain levels of net income. if the securities analysts that regularly follow our stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the market price of our stock is likely to drop. in addition, if our quarterly financial performance does not meet the expectations of securities analysts, our stock price would likely decline. the decrease in the stock price may be disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance. 15 table of contents tax matters could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors including, but not limited to, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in u.s. tax legislation and regulation, foreign tax laws, regulations and treaties, exposure to additional tax liabilities, changes in accounting principles and interpretations relating to tax matters, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition in future periods. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by federal, state and local tax authorities in the u.s. and foreign countries, such authorities may challenge positions we take, and we are engaged in various proceedings with such authorities with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds, and the results of these examinations, judicial proceedings or as a result of the expiration of statute of limitations in specific jurisdictions. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. however, it is possible that the actual results of proceedings with tax authorities and in courts, changes in facts, expiration of statutes of limitations or other resolutions of tax positions will differ from the amounts we have accrued in either a positive or a negative manner, which could materially affect our effective income tax rate in a given financial period, the amount of taxes we are required to pay and our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. foreign currency exchange risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk on our investment in our canadian and european operations on the translation of these foreign operations into the u.s. dollar and on purchases by our operations of goods in currencies that are not their local currencies. as more fully described in note e to our consolidated financial statements, we hedge a portion of our intercompany transactions with foreign operations and certain merchandise purchase commitments incurred by these operations with derivative financial instruments. during fiscal 2009, we ceased hedging our net investment position in our foreign operations. we enter into derivative contracts only when there is an underlying economic exposure. we utilize currency forward and swap contracts designed to offset the gains or losses in the underlying exposures. the contracts are executed with banks we believe are creditworthy and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates applied to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above as well as the translation of our foreign operations into our reporting currency. as of january 30, 2010, the analysis indicated that such an adverse movement would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position but could have reduced our pre-tax income from continuing operations for fiscal 2010 by approximately $42 million. interest rate risk our cash equivalents, short-term investments and certain lines of credit bear variable interest rates. changes in interest rates affect interest earned and paid by us. in addition, changes in the gross amount of our borrowings and future changes in interest rates will affect our future interest expense. we periodically enter into financial instruments to manage our cost of borrowing; however, we believe that the use of primarily fixed rate debt minimizes our exposure to market conditions. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates applied to the maximum variable-rate debt outstanding, cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. as of january 30, 2010, the analysis indicated that such an adverse movement would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. equity price risk the assets of our qualified pension plan, a large portion of which are invested in equity securities, are subject to the risks and uncertainties of the financial markets. we allocate the pension assets in a manner that attempts to minimize and control our exposure to market uncertainties. investments, in general, are exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit, and overall market volatility risks. the significant decline in the financial markets over the last several years has impacted the value of our pension plan assets and the funded status of our plan, resulting in increased contributions to the plan.risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully, in connection with all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks that follow, individually or in the aggregate, are those that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements. global economic conditions may adversely affect our financial performance. during the recent economic recession, global financial markets experienced extreme volatility, disruption and credit contraction. the volatility and disruption to the capital markets significantly adversely affected global economic conditions, resulting in additional significant recessionary pressures and declines in employment levels, disposable income and actual and perceived wealth. although there have been some recent improvements, continuing or worsened adverse economic conditions, including higher unemployment, energy and health care costs, interest rates and taxes and tighter credit, could continue to affect consumer confidence and discretionary consumer spending adversely and may adversely affect our sales, cash flows and results of operations. additionally, renewed financial turmoil in the financial and credit markets could adversely affect our costs of capital and the sources of liquidity available to us and could increase our pension funding requirements. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may lead to lower revenues and earnings. in addition to our u.s. businesses, we operate stores in canada and europe and plan to continue to expand our international operations. sales made by our stores outside the united states are denominated in the currency of the country in which the store is located, and changes in foreign exchange rates affect the translation of the sales and earnings of these businesses into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. because of this, movements in exchange rates have had and are expected to continue to have a significant impact on our net sales and earnings. additionally, we routinely enter into inventory-related hedging instruments to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on merchandise margins of merchandise purchased by our international segments that is denominated in currencies other than their local currencies. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we evaluate the fair value of these hedging instruments and make mark-to-market adjustments at the end of an accounting period. these adjustments are of a much greater magnitude when there is significant volatility in currency exchange rates and may have a significant impact on our earnings. changes in foreign currency exchange rates can also increase the cost of inventory purchases by our businesses that are denominated in a currency other than the local currency of the business. when these changes occur suddenly, it can be difficult for us to adjust retail prices accordingly, and gross margin can be adversely affected. a significant amount of merchandise we offer for sale is made in china and accordingly, a revaluation of the chinese currency, or increased market flexibility in the exchange rate for that currency, increasing its value relative to the u.s. dollar or currencies in which our stores are located could be particularly significant. although we implement foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign exchange rates, we expect that foreign currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations. in addition, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our earnings and operating results if a counterparty to one of our hedging arrangements fails to perform. failure to execute our opportunistic buying and inventory management could adversely affect our business. we purchase the majority of our apparel inventory and much of our home inventory opportunistically with our buyers purchasing close to need. to drive traffic to the stores and to increase same store sales, the treasure hunt nature of the off-price buying experience is enhanced by rapid inventory turns and continued replenishment of fresh, high quality, attractively priced merchandise in our stores. while opportunistic buying provides our buyers the ability to buy at desirable times and prices, in the quantities we need and into market trends, it places considerable discretion in our buyers, subjecting us to risks on the appropriate pricing, quantity, nature and timing of inventory flowing to our stores. in addition, we base our purchases of inventory, in part, on sales forecasts. if our sales forecasts do not match customer demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and need to take markdowns on excess or slow-moving inventory, leading to decreased profit margins, or we 9 may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand leading to lost sales, either of which could adversely affect our financial performance. our pricing model requires that we purchase inventory sufficiently below conventional retail to maintain our pricing differential and margin, which we may not achieve at times. we must also properly execute our inventory management strategies through appropriately allocating merchandise among our stores, timely and efficiently distributing inventory to stores, maintaining an appropriate mix and level of inventory in stores, appropriately changing the allocation of floor space of stores among product categories to respond to customer demand and effectively managing pricing and markdowns. our vendors and others in our supply chain are also subject to risks of labor issues, financial liquidity, weather and other natural disasters, economic, political and regulatory conditions and other matters that could affect our ability to receive and provide to our stores acceptable merchandise in adequate quantities on a timely basis. failure to execute our opportunistic inventory buying and inventory management well could adversely affect our performance and our relationship with our customers. failure to continue to expand our operations successfully could adversely affect our financial results. our revenue growth is dependent, among other things, upon our ability to continue to expand successfully through successful new store openings as well as our ability to increase same store sales. successful store growth requires acquisition and development of appropriate real estate including selection of store locations in appropriate geographies, availability of attractive stores or store sites in such locations and negotiation of acceptable terms. competition for desirable sites, increases in real estate, construction and development costs and availability and costs of capital could limit our ability to open new stores in desirable locations in the future or adversely affect the economics of new stores. we may encounter difficulties in attracting customers in new markets for various reasons including decisions to open new banners, expansion into new geographies, customers lack of familiarity with our brands or our lack of familiarity with local customer preferences and cultural differences. new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores, and new and existing stores in a market area may adversely affect each other sales and profitability. further, expansion places significant demands on the administrative, merchandising, store operations, distribution and other organizations in our businesses to manage rapid growth, and we may not do so successfully. as a result, we may need to reduce our rate of expansion or we may operate with decreased operational efficiency, and it may adversely affect our results. failure to successfully identify customer trends and preferences to meet customer demand could negatively impact our performance. because our success depends on our ability to meet customer demand, we take various steps to keep up with customer trends and preferences including contacts with vendors, monitoring product category and fashion trends and comparison shopping. our flexible business model allows us to buy close to need and in response to consumer preferences and trends and to expand and contract merchandise categories in response to consumers changing tastes. however, identifying consumer trends and preferences in the various geographies in which we do business and successfully meeting customer demand is challenging, and we may not successfully do so, which could adversely affect our results. our quarterly operating results can be subject to significant fluctuations and may fall short of either a prior quarter or investors expectations. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter at points in the past, and they may continue to do so in the future. our earnings may not continue to grow at rates we plan and may fall short of either a prior quarter or investors expectations. if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our share price may decline. factors that could cause us not to meet our securities analysts or investors earnings expectations include some factors that are within our control, such as the execution of our off-price buying; selection, pricing and mix of merchandise; and inventory management including flow, markon and markdowns; and some factors that are not within our control, including actions of competitors, weather conditions, economic conditions, consumer confidence, seasonality, and cost increases due, among other things, to government regulation and increased healthcare costs. in addition, if we do not repurchase the number of shares we contemplate pursuant to our stock repurchase program, our earnings per share may be adversely affected. most of our operating expenses, such as rent expense and associate salaries, do not vary directly with the amount of sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. as a result, if sales in a particular quarter are below expectations for that quarter, we may not proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore such a sales shortfall would have a disproportionate effect on our net income for the quarter. we maintain a forecasting process that seeks to project sales and align expenses. if we do not correctly forecast sales and control costs or appropriately adjust costs to actual results, our financial performance could be adversely affected. 10 our future performance is dependent upon our ability to continue to expand within our existing markets and to extend our off-price model in new product lines, chains and geographic regions. our strategy is to continue to expand within existing markets, to expand to new markets and geographies and to attract new customers in existing and new markets across demographics. this growth strategy includes developing new ways to sell more or different categories of merchandise within our existing stores, continued expansion of our existing chains in our existing markets and countries, expansion of these chains to new markets and countries, development and opening of new chains or potential expansion of e-commerce, all of which entail significant risk. our growth is dependent upon our ability to successfully extend our business in these ways. if any of our expansion vehicles does not achieve the success we expect in whole or in part, we may be required to increase our investment or close stores or operations. unsuccessful extension of our model could adversely affect growth and financial performance. if we fail to successfully implement our marketing, advertising and promotional programs, or if our competitors are more effective with their programs than we are, our revenue may be adversely affected. we use marketing, advertising and promotional programs to attract customers to our stores. we use various media for these programs, including print, television, social media, database marketing and direct marketing. some of our competitors may have substantially larger expenditures for their programs, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to execute our marketing, advertising and promotional programs effectively, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. information posted about us and our merchandise on social media platforms and similar venues, including blogs, social media websites, and other forums for internet-based communications that allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons, may be inaccurate or may harm our brand, which could have a material effect on our revenue and results of operations. compromises of our data security could materially harm our reputation and business. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store certain personal information from individuals, such as our customers and associates, and we process customer payment card and check information. we suffered an unauthorized intrusion or intrusions (such intrusion or intrusions, collectively, the computer intrusion ) into portions of our computer system that process and store information related to customer transactions, discovered late in fiscal 2007 in which we believe customer data were stolen. we have taken steps designed to further strengthen the security of our computer system and protocols and have instituted an ongoing program with respect to data security, consistent with a consent order with the federal trade commission. nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer a future data compromise. we rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. further, the systems currently used for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, all of which can put payment card data at risk, are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, not by us. this is also true for check information and approval. computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our computer system and, if successful, misappropriate personal information, payment card or check information or confidential company business information. in addition, a company associate, contractor or other third party with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain such information, and may purposefully or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and other developments may increase the risk of such a breach. any such compromise of our data security and loss of personal or business information could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and customers willingness to shop in our stores, violate applicable laws, regulations, orders and agreements, and subject us to additional costs and liabilities which could be material. our business is subject to seasonal influences; a decrease in sales or margins during the second half of the year could disproportionately adversely affect our operating results. our business is subject to seasonal influences; we generally realize higher levels of sales and income in the second half of the year, which includes the back-to-school and year-end holiday seasons. any decrease in sales or margins during this period could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our results of operations. we may experience risks associated with our substantial size and scale. we operate multiple retail chains in the u.s., canada and europe. some aspects of the businesses and operations of the chains are conducted with relative autonomy. the large size of our operations, our multiple businesses and the autonomy 11 afforded to the chains increase the risk that systems and practices will not be implemented uniformly throughout our company and that information will not be appropriately shared across different chains and countries. unseasonable weather in the markets in which our stores operate or our distribution centers are located could adversely affect our operating results. adverse and unseasonable weather affects customers willingness to shop and their demand for the merchandise in our stores. severe weather could also affect our ability to transport merchandise to our stores from our distribution and shipping centers. as a result, frequent, unusually heavy, unseasonable or untimely weather in our markets, such as snow, ice or rain storms, severe cold or heat or extended periods of unseasonable temperatures, could adversely affect our sales and increase markdowns. increased governmental regulations focused on climate change could increase compliance costs. our results may be adversely affected by serious disruptions or catastrophic events. unforeseen public health issues, such as pandemics and epidemics, as well as natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes and other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, could disrupt our operations or the operations of one or more of our vendors or could severely damage or destroy one or more of our stores or distribution facilities located in the affected areas. day to day operations, particularly our ability to receive products from our vendors or transport products to our stores could be adversely affected, or we could be required to close stores or distribution centers in the affected areas or in areas served by the affected distribution center. as a result, our business could be adversely affected. we operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to compete effectively. the retail apparel and home fashion business is highly competitive. we compete with many other local, regional, national and international retailers that sell apparel, home fashions and other merchandise we sell, whether in stores, through catalogues or media or over the internet. we compete on the basis of fashion, quality, price, value, merchandise selection and freshness, brand name recognition, service, reputation and store location. other competitive factors that influence the demand for our merchandise include our advertising, marketing and promotional activities and the name recognition and reputation of our chains. if we fail to compete effectively, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. failure to attract and retain quality sales, distribution center and other associates in appropriate numbers as well as experienced buying and management personnel could adversely affect our performance. our performance depends on recruiting, developing, training and retaining quality sales, distribution center and other associates in large numbers as well as experienced buying and management personnel. many of our associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. the nature of the workforce in the retail industry subjects us to the risk of immigration law violations, which risk has increased in recent years. in addition, any failure of third-parties that perform services on our behalf to comply with immigration, employment or other laws could damage our reputation or disrupt our ability to obtain needed labor. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling labor costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and governmental labor and employment requirements. recently enacted health care reform legislation could increase our costs. in the event of increasing wage rates, if we fail to increase our wages competitively, the quality of our workforce could decline, causing our customer service to suffer, while increasing our wages could cause our earnings to decrease. in addition, certain associates in our distribution centers are members of unions and therefore subject us to the risk of labor actions. because of the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must do significant internal training and development for a substantial number of our associates. the market for retail management is highly competitive and, in common with other retailers, we face challenges in securing sufficient management talent. if we do not continue to attract, train and retain quality associates and management personnel, our performance could be adversely affected. if we engage in mergers or acquisitions of new businesses, or divest, close or consolidate any of our current businesses, our business will be subject to additional risks. we have grown our business in part through mergers and acquisitions and may acquire new businesses or divest, close or consolidate current businesses. acquisition or divestiture activities may divert attention of management from operating the existing businesses. we may do a less-than-optimal job of evaluating target companies and their risks and benefits, and integration of acquisitions can be difficult and time-consuming. acquisitions may not meet our performance and other expectations or may expose us to unexpected or greater-than-expected liabilities and risks. divestitures, closings and 12 consolidations also involve risks, such as the risks of exposure on lease and other contractual, employment and severance obligations, obligations undertaken in the process and potential liabilities that may arise under law as a result of the disposition or the subsequent failure of the acquirer. failure to execute on mergers or divestitures, closings and consolidations in a satisfactory manner could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. failure to operate information systems and implement new technologies effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability. we rely extensively on various information systems, data centers and software applications to manage many aspects of our business, including to process and record transactions in our stores, to enable effective communication systems, to plan and track inventory flow, and to generate performance and financial reports. we are dependent on the integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems and related back-up systems. our computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism and usage errors by our associates or contractors. the efficient operation and successful growth of our business depends upon these information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and to select and implement appropriate new technologies, systems, controls, data centers and adequate disaster recovery systems successfully. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business or subject us to liability and thereby harm our profitability. we depend upon strong cash flows from our operations to supply capital to fund our expansion, operations, interest and debt repayments, stock repurchases and dividends. our business depends upon our operations to generate strong cash flow, and to some extent upon the availability of financing sources, to supply capital to fund our expansions, general operating activities, stock repurchases, dividends, interest and debt repayments. our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities or the lack of availability of financing in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms when needed could adversely affect our financial performance including our earnings per share. general economic and other factors may adversely affect consumer spending, which could adversely affect our sales and operating results. interest rates; recession; inflation; deflation; consumer credit availability; consumer debt levels; energy costs; tax rates and policy; unemployment trends; threats or possibilities of war, terrorism or other global or national unrest; actual or threatened epidemics; political or financial instability; and general economic, political and other factors beyond our control have significant effects on consumer confidence and spending. consumer spending, in turn, affects sales at retailers, which may include tjx. although we benefit from being an off-price retailer, these factors could adversely affect our sales and performance if we are not able to implement strategies to mitigate them promptly and successfully. issues with merchandise quality or safety could damage our reputation, sales and financial results. various governmental authorities in the jurisdictions where we do business regulate the quality and safety of the merchandise we sell in our stores. regulations and standards in this area, including those related to the consumer product safety improvement act of 2008 in the united states and similar legislation in other countries in which we operate, change from time to time. our inability to comply on a timely basis with regulatory requirements could result in significant fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we rely on our vendors to provide quality merchandise that complies with applicable product safety laws and other applicable laws, but they may not comply with their contractual obligations to do so. issues with the quality and safety of merchandise, particularly with food, bath and body and children products, or issues with the genuineness of merchandise, regardless of our fault, or customer concerns about such issues, could cause damage to our reputation and could result in lost sales, uninsured product liability claims or losses, merchandise recalls and increased costs, and regulatory, civil or criminal fines or penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we are subject to import risks associated with importing merchandise from foreign countries. many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our vendors and, to a lesser extent, by us, in many foreign countries, particularly southeastern asia. where we are the importer of record, we may be subject to regulatory or other requirements similar to those imposed upon the manufacturer of such products. we are subject to the various risks of 13 doing business in foreign markets, importing merchandise from abroad and purchasing product made in foreign countries, such as: potential disruptions in manufacturing, logistics and supply; changes in duties, tariffs, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise; strikes and other events affecting delivery; consumer perceptions of the safety of imported merchandise; product compliance with laws and regulations of the destination country; product liability claims from customers or penalties from government agencies relating to products that are recalled, defective or otherwise noncompliant or alleged to be harmful; concerns about human rights, working conditions and other labor rights and conditions in foreign countries where merchandise is produced, and changing labor, environmental and other laws in these countries; compliance with laws and regulations concerning ethical business practices, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act; potentially greater exposure for product warranty and safety problems; and economic, political or other problems in countries from or through which merchandise is imported. political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, labor conditions, transport capacity and costs, systems issues, problems in third party distribution and warehousing and other interruptions of the supply chain, compliance with u.s. and foreign laws and regulations and other factors relating to international trade and imported merchandise beyond our control could affect the availability and the price of our inventory. furthermore, although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations relating to doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, there can be no assurance that our associates, contractors, agents, vendors or other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies, which could subject us to liability and could adversely affect our operations or operating results. our expanding international operations increasingly expose us to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. we have a significant retail presence in canada and europe, as well as buying offices around the world, and our goal as a global retailer is to continue to expand into other international markets in the future. our foreign operations encounter risks similar to those faced by our u.s. operations, as well as risks inherent in foreign operations, such as understanding the retail climate and trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets, complying with foreign laws, rules and regulations, and foreign currency fluctuations, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. our results may be adversely affected by increases in the price of oil and other commodities. prices of oil have fluctuated dramatically in the past and have recently risen significantly. increase in the price of oil increases our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and costs to purchase our products from suppliers. although we have implemented a hedging strategy to manage a portion of our transportation costs, increases in oil and gasoline prices could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products and increase our operating costs, which could have an adverse effect on our performance. similarly, other commodity prices have also fluctuated dramatically in the past. cost of cotton and synthetic fabrics have recently risen significantly. such increases are expected to increase the cost of merchandise, which could adversely affect our performance through potentially reduced consumer demand or reduced margins. failure to comply with existing laws, regulations and orders or changes in existing laws and regulations could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance. we are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws, rules and regulations in the united states and abroad, any of which may change from time to time, as well as orders and assurances. if we fail to comply with these laws, rules, regulations and orders, we may be subject to fines or other penalties, which could materially adversely affect our operations and our financial results and condition. we must also comply with new and changing laws. further, generally 14 accepted accounting principles (gaap) in the u.s. may change from time to time, and the changes could have material effects on our reported financial results and condition. in addition, there have been a large number of new legislative and regulatory initiatives and reforms introduced in the u.s., and the initiatives and reforms that have been and may be enacted may increase our costs. our results may be materially adversely affected by the outcomes of litigation and other legal proceedings. we are periodically involved in various legal proceedings, which may involve local, state and federal government inquiries and investigations; tax, employment, real estate, tort, consumer litigation and intellectual property litigation; or other disputes. there have been a growing number of employment-related lawsuits, including class actions, and we have been subject to these types of suits. in addition, we may be subject to investigations and other proceedings by regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, consumer protection laws, advertising regulations, escheat and employment and wage and hour regulations. results of legal and regulatory proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty and may differ from reserves we establish estimating the probable outcome. regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations could expose us to significant defense costs, fines, penalties and liability to private parties and governmental entities for monetary recoveries and other amounts and attorneys fees and/or require us to change aspects of our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our real estate leases generally obligate us for long periods, which subjects us to various financial risks. we lease virtually all of our store locations, generally for long terms and either own or lease for long periods our primary distribution centers and administrative offices. accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate, which can have a material adverse effect on our results as reflected in our reserve for former operations. while we have the right to terminate some of our leases under specified conditions by making specified payments, we may not be able to terminate a particular lease if or when we would like to do so. if we decide to close stores, we are generally required to continue to perform obligations under the applicable leases, which generally includes, among other things, paying rent and operating expenses for the balance of the lease term, or paying to exercise rights to terminate, and the performance of any of these obligations may be expensive. when we assign or sublease leases, we can remain liable on the lease obligations if the assignee or sublessee does not perform. in addition, when leases for the stores in our ongoing operations expire, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores. our stock price may fluctuate based on market expectations. the public trading of our stock is based in large part on market expectations that our business will continue to grow and that we will achieve certain levels of net income. if the securities analysts that regularly follow our stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the market price of our stock is likely to drop. in addition, if our quarterly financial performance does not meet the expectations of securities analysts, our stock price would likely decline. the decrease in the stock price may be disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance. tax matters could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our provision for income taxes and future tax liability could be adversely affected by numerous factors including, but not limited to, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory income tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory income tax rates, changes in income tax rates, changes in transfer pricing, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in u.s. tax legislation and regulation, foreign tax laws, regulations and treaties, exposure to additional tax liabilities, changes in accounting principles and interpretations relating to tax matters, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition in future periods. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by federal, state and local tax authorities in the u.s. and foreign countries, such authorities may challenge positions we take, and we are engaged in various proceedings with such authorities with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds, and the results of these examinations, judicial proceedings or as a result of the expiration of statute of limitations in specific jurisdictions. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. however, it is possible that the actual results of proceedings with tax authorities and in courts, 15 changes in facts, expiration of statutes of limitations or other resolutions of tax positions will differ from the amounts we have accrued in either a positive or a negative manner, which could materially affect our effective income tax rate in a given financial period, the amount of taxes we are required to pay and our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. foreign currency exchange risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk on our investment in our canadian and european operations on the translation of these foreign operations into the u.s. dollar and on purchases of goods in currencies that are not the local currencies of stores where the goods are sold. as more fully described in note f to our consolidated financial statements, we hedge a portion of our intercompany transactions with foreign operations and certain merchandise purchase commitments incurred by these operations with derivative financial instruments. we enter into derivative contracts only for the purpose of hedging an underlying economic exposure. we utilize currency forward and swap contracts, designed to offset the gains or losses in the underlying exposures. the contracts are executed with banks we believe are creditworthy and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates applied to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above as well as the translation of our foreign operations into our reporting currency. as of january 29, 2011, the analysis indicated that such an adverse movement would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position but could have reduced our pre-tax income for fiscal 2011 by approximately $43 million. interest rate risk our cash equivalents, short-term investments and certain lines of credit bear variable interest rates. changes in interest rates affect interest earned and paid by us. in addition, changes in the gross amount of our borrowings and future changes in interest rates will affect our future interest expense. we periodically enter into financial instruments to manage our cost of borrowing; however, we believe that fixed interest rates on most of our debt minimizes our exposure to changes in market conditions. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates applied to our maximum variable rate debt outstanding, and to our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments as of january 29, 2011. the analysis indicated that such an adverse movement as of that date would not have had a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 34 equity price risk the assets of our qualified pension plan, a large portion of which are equity securities, are subject to the risks and uncertainties of the financial markets. we invest the pension assets in a manner that attempts to minimize and control our exposure to market uncertainties. investments, in general, are exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit, and overall market volatility risks. a significant decline in the financial markets can adversely affect the value of our pension plan assets and the funded status of our pension plan, resulting in increased contributions to the plan.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk tjx is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk on its investment in its canadian (winners) and european (t.k. maxx) operations. as more fully described in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, we hedge a significant portion of our net investment and certain merchandise commitments in these operations with derivative financial instruments. tjx enters into derivative contracts only when there is an underlying economic exposure. tjx utilizes currency forward and swap contracts, designed to offset the gains or losses in the underlying exposures, most of which are recorded directly in shareholders' equity. the contracts are executed with creditworthy banks and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign exchange rates applied to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above. as of january 27, 2001 the analysis indicated that such market movements would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk tjx is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk on its investment in its canadian (winners merchants, inc.) and european (t.k. maxx) operations. as more fully described in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, we hedge a significant portion of our net investment and certain merchandise commitments in these operations with derivative financial instruments. tjx enters into derivative contracts only when there is an underlying economic exposure. tjx utilizes currency forward and swap contracts, designed to offset the gains or losses in the underlying exposures, most of which are recorded directly in shareholders equity. the contracts are executed with banks we believe are creditworthy and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign exchange rates applied to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above. as of january 26, 2002 the analysis indicated that such market movements would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. tjx cash equivalents and short-term investments and certain lines of credit bear variable interest rates. changes in interest rates affect interest earned and paid by the company. tjx generally does not use derivative instruments to offset the exposure to changes in interest rates on these items. instead, tjx believes that the use of primarily fixed rate debt minimizes exposure to market conditions and the ensuing increases and decreases that could arise with variable rate financing. tjx has performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates applied to the maximum variable rate debt outstanding during the previous year. as of january 26, 2002, the analysis indicated that such market movements would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 10 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk tjx is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk on its investment in its canadian (winners) and european (t.k. maxx) operations. as more fully described in note c to our consolidated financial statements, on pages 27-28 of our annual report, we hedge a significant portion of our net investment and certain merchandise commitments in these operations with derivative financial instruments. tjx enters into derivative contracts only when there is an underlying economic exposure. tjx utilizes currency forward and swap contracts, designed to offset the gains or losses in the underlying exposures, most of which are recorded directly in shareholders equity. the contracts are executed with banks we believe are creditworthy and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates applied to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above. as of january 25, 2003 the analysis indicated that such market movements would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. tjx cash equivalents and short-term investments and certain lines of credit bear variable interest rates. changes in interest rates affect interest earned and paid by the company. tjx generally does not use derivative instruments to offset the exposure to changes in interest rates on these items. instead, tjx believes that the use of primarily fixed rate debt minimizes exposure to market conditions and the ensuing increases and decreases that could arise with variable rate financing. tjx has performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates applied to the maximum variable rate debt outstanding during the previous year. as of january 25, 2003, the analysis indicated that such market movements would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 12 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk on our investment in our canadian (winners and homesense) and european (t.k. maxx) operations. as more fully described in note d to the consolidated financial statements, on page f-16, we hedge a significant portion of our net investment and certain merchandise commitments in these operations with derivative financial instruments. we enter into derivative contracts only when there is an underlying economic exposure. we utilize currency forward and swap contracts, designed to offset the gains or losses in the underlying exposures, most of which are recorded directly in shareholders equity. the contracts are executed with banks we believe are creditworthy and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates applied to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above. as of january 31, 2004, the analysis indicated that such market movements would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our cash equivalents and short-term investments and certain lines of credit bear variable interest rates. changes in interest rates affect interest earned and paid by the company. we occasionally enter into financial instruments to manage our cost of borrowing, however, we believe that the use of primarily fixed rate debt minimizes our exposure to market conditions. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates applied to the maximum variable rate debt outstanding during the previous year. as of january 31, 2004, the analysis indicated that such market movements would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market riskrisk factors risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. 6 table of contents our disclosure and analysis in this 2005 form 10-k and in our 2005 annual report to shareholders contain some forward-looking statements, including some of the statements made under item 1, business, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, and in our 2005 annual report to stockholders under letter to shareholders and financial graphs. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. we have generally identified such statements by using words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, will, target, forecast and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. all statements that address activities, events or developments that we intend, expect or believe may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, future performance or results of current and anticipated sales, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our form 10-q and 8-k reports to the sec. the risks that follow, individually or in the aggregate, are those that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. our revenue growth could be adversely affected if we do not continue to expand our operations successfully. tjx has rapidly expanded the number of chains and stores it operates and its selling square footage. our revenue growth is dependent upon our ability to continue to expand successfully through new store openings as well as our ability to increase same store sales. successful store growth requires selection of store locations in appropriate geographies, availability of attractive stores or store sites in such locations and negotiation of acceptable terms. competition for desirable sites and increases in real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities. even if we succeed in opening new stores, these new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores. further, expansion places demands upon us to manage rapid growth, and we may not do so successfully. we may have difficulty extending our off-price model in new product lines, chains and geographic regions. tjx has expanded its original off-price model into different product lines, chains, geographic areas and countries. tjx growth is dependent upon our ability to successfully execute our off-price retail apparel and home fashions concepts in new markets and geographic regions. if the company is unable to successfully execute its concepts in these new markets and regions, or if consumers there are not receptive to the concepts, tjx financial performance could be adversely affected. if we fail to execute our opportunistic buying and inventory management well, our business could be adversely affected. tjx purchases the majority of our inventory opportunistically with our buyers purchasing close to need. to drive traffic to the stores and to increase same store sales, the treasure hunt nature of the off-price buying experience requires continued replenishment of fresh high quality, attractively priced merchandise. while opportunistic buying enables our buyers to buy at the right time and price, in the quantities we need and into market trends, it places considerable discretion in our buyers, subjecting us to risks on the timing, quantity and nature of inventory flowing to the stores. we rely on our expansive distribution infrastructure to support delivering goods to our stores on time. we must effectively and timely distribute inventory to stores, maintain an appropriate mix and level of inventory and effectively manage 7 table of contents pricing and markdowns. failure to acquire and manage our inventory well and to operate our distribution infrastructure effectively, can adversely affect our performance and our relationship with our customers. our success depends upon our marketing, advertising and promotional efforts. if we are unable to implement them successfully, or if our competitors are more effective than we are, our revenue may be adversely affected. we use marketing and promotional programs to attract customers to our stores and to encourage purchases by our customers. we use various media for our promotional efforts, including print, television, database marketing and direct marketing. if we fail to choose the appropriate medium for our efforts, or fail to implement and execute new marketing opportunities, our competitors may be able to attract some of our customers and cause them to decrease purchases in our stores and increase purchases elsewhere, which might negatively impact our revenues. changes in the amount and degree of promotional intensity or merchandising strategy by our competitors could cause tjx to have difficulties in retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. unseasonable weather in the markets in which our stores operate could adversely affect our operating results. customers willingness to shop and their demand for the merchandise in our stores is affected by adverse and unseasonable weather. frequent or unusually heavy snow, ice or rain storms, severe cold or heat or extended periods of unseasonable temperatures in our markets could adversely affect our sales and increase markdowns. we operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to compete effectively. the retail business is highly competitive. tjx competes for customers, associates, locations, merchandise, services and other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national and international retailers. tjx also faces competition from alternative retail distribution channels such as catalogues and internet sites. changes in the merchandising, pricing and promotional activities of those competitors and in the retail industry generally, may adversely affect our performance. if we do not attract and retain quality sales, distribution center and other associates in large numbers as well as experienced buying and management personnel, our performance could be adversely affected. tjx performance is dependent on recruiting, developing, training and retaining quality sales, distribution center and other associates in large numbers as well as experienced buying and management personnel. many of our associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. tjx ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. in the event of increasing wage rates, if we do not increase our wages competitively, our customer service could suffer because of a declining quality of our workforce, or our earnings would decrease if we increase our wage rates. in addition, certain associates in our distribution centers are members of unions and therefore subject us to the risk of labor actions. further, our off-price model limits the market for experienced buying and management personnel and requires us to do significant internal training and development. changes that adversely impact tjx ability to attract and retain quality associates and management personnel could adversely affect our performance. if we engage in mergers or acquisitions of new businesses, or divest any of our current businesses, our business will be subject to additional risks. we have used mergers and acquisitions to grow our business in the past. for example, in 2003, we completed the acquisition of bob stores. integrating new stores and concepts can be a difficult task. we may consider attractive opportunities to acquire new businesses or to divest any of our current business segment. acquisition or divestiture activities may divert attention of our executive management team away from the existing businesses. we may do a less than optimal job of due diligence or evaluation of target companies. failure to execute on mergers or divestitures in a satisfactory manner could have an adverse effect on our future business prospects or our financial performance in the future. 8 table of contents if we are unable to operate information systems and implement new technologies effectively, our business could be disrupted or our sales or profitability could be reduced. the efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and successfully to implement new technologies, systems, controls and adequate disaster recovery systems. in addition, we must protect the confidentiality of our and our customers data. the failure of tjx information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business or subject us to liability and thereby harm our profitability. we expect to continue to depend upon strong cash flows from our operations to support capital expansion, operations, debt repayment and our stock repurchase program. tjx business is dependent upon its operations generating strong cash flows to support our capital expansion requirements, our general operating activities and our stock repurchase programs and to fund debt repayment and the availability of financing sources. our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities or the lack of availability of financing in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms could adversely affect our financial performance or our earnings per share growth. consumer spending is adversely affected by general economic factors that are beyond our control, which could adversely affect our sales and operating results. interest rates; recession; inflation; deflation; consumer credit availability; consumer debt levels; energy costs; tax rates and policy; unemployment trends; the threat or possibility of war, terrorism or other global or national unrest; political or financial instability; and other general economic factors have significant effects on consumer confidence and spending, which in turn affect retail sales at tjx. general economic factors in the united states and in other countries where we operate are beyond our control and could adversely affect our sales and performance. we are subject to import risks, including potential disruptions in supply, changes in duties, tariffs, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise, strikes and other events affecting delivery; and economic, political or other problems in countries from or through which merchandise is imported. many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our vendors and to a limited extent by us in many foreign countries. political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to international trade are beyond our control and could affect the availability and the price of our inventory. our expanding international operations expose us to risks inherent in foreign operations. we have a significant presence in canada, the united kingdom and ireland. we may also seek to expand into other international markets in the future. our foreign operations encounter risks similar to those faced by our u.s. operations, as well as risks inherent in foreign operations, such as local customs and competitive conditions and foreign currency fluctuations, which could have an adverse impact on our worldwide profitability. changes in laws and regulations and accounting rules and principles could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance. various aspects of tjx operations are subject to federal, state or local laws, rules and regulations, any of which may change from time to time. generally accepted accounting principles may change from time to time, as well. additionally, tjx is frequently involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. litigation, regulatory developments and changes in accounting rules and principles could adversely affect tjx business operations and financial performance. 9 table of contents we maintain internal controls over financial reporting, but they cannot provide absolute assurance that there will not be material errors in our financial reporting. tjx maintains a system of internal controls over financial reporting, but there are limitations inherent in internal control systems. if we are unable to maintain adequate and effective internal control over financial reporting, tjx financial performance could be adversely affected. a control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. in addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be appropriate relative to their costs. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk on our investment in our canadian (winners and homesense) and european (t.k. maxx) operations. as more fully described in notes a and d to the consolidated financial statements, we hedge a significant portion of our net investment in foreign operations; intercompany transactions with these operations; and certain merchandise purchase commitments incurred by these operations; with derivative financial instruments. we enter into derivative contracts only when there is an underlying economic exposure. we utilize currency forward and swap contracts, designed to offset the gains or losses in the underlying exposures; most of these gains and losses are recorded directly in shareholders equity. the contracts are executed with banks we believe are creditworthy and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates applied to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above. as of january 28, 2006, the analysis indicated that such an adverse movement would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our cash equivalents and short-term investments and certain lines of credit bear variable interest rates. changes in interest rates affect interest earned and paid by the company. we occasionally enter into financial instruments to manage our cost of borrowing; however, we believe that the use of primarily fixed rate debt minimizes our exposure to market conditions. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates applied to the maximum variable rate debt outstanding during the previous year. as of january 28, 2006, the analysis indicated that such an adverse movement would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully, in connection with all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. our disclosure and analysis in this 2006 form 10-k and in our 2006 annual report to shareholders contain some forward-looking statements, including some of the statements made under item 1, business, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, and in our 2006 annual report to stockholders under letter to shareholders and financial graphs. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; 11 they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. we have generally identified such statements by using words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, will, target, forecast and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. all statements that address activities, events or developments that we intend, expect or believe may occur in the future are forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, future performance or results of current and anticipated sales, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our form 10-q and 8-k reports to the sec. the risks that follow, individually or in the aggregate, are those that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. our revenue growth could be adversely affected if we do not continue to expand our operations successfully. we have steadily expanded the number of chains and stores we operate and our selling square footage. our revenue growth is dependent upon our ability to continue to expand successfully through new store openings as well as our ability to increase same store sales. successful store growth requires selection of store locations in appropriate geographies, availability of attractive stores or store sites in such locations and negotiation of acceptable terms. competition for desirable sites and increases in real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities. even if we succeed in opening new stores, these new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores. further, expansion places demands upon us to manage rapid growth, and we may not do so successfully. our quarterly operating results can be subject to significant fluctuations and may fall short of either a prior quarter or investors expectations. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. our earnings may not continue to grow at rates similar to the growth rates achieved in recent years and may fall short of either a prior quarter or investors expectations. factors that could cause these quarterly fluctuations include some factors that are within our control such as the execution of our off-price buying; selection, pricing, flow and mix of merchandise; and inventory management including markon and markdowns; and some factors that are not within our control including actions of competitors; weather conditions; economic conditions and consumer confidence; and seasonality. in addition, if we do not repurchase, or are unable to repurchase, the number of shares we contemplate pursuant to our stock repurchase program, our earnings per share may be adversely affected. most of our operating expenses, such as rent expense and associate salaries, do not vary directly with the amount of sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. as a result, if sales in a particular quarter are below expectations for that quarter, we may not proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore such a sales shortfall would have a disproportionate effect on our net income for the quarter. we maintain a forecasting process that seeks to project sales and align expenses. if management fails to correctly forecast changes or appropriately adjust the business plan in light of results, our financial performance could be adversely affected. we may have difficulty extending our off-price model in new product lines, chains and geographic regions. we have expanded our original off-price model into different product lines, chains, geographic areas and countries. our growth is dependent upon our ability to successfully execute our off-price retail apparel and home fashions concepts in new markets and geographic regions. if we are unable to successfully execute our concepts in these 12 new markets and regions, or if consumers there are not receptive to the concepts, our financial performance could be adversely affected. if we fail to execute our opportunistic buying and inventory management well, our business could be adversely affected. we purchase the majority of our inventory opportunistically with our buyers purchasing close to need. to drive traffic to the stores and to increase same store sales, the treasure hunt nature of the off-price buying experience requires continued replenishment of fresh high quality, attractively priced merchandise. while opportunistic buying enables our buyers to buy at the right time and price, in the quantities we need and into market trends, it places considerable discretion in our buyers, subjecting us to risks on the timing, quantity and nature of inventory flowing to the stores. we rely on our expansive distribution infrastructure to support delivering goods to our stores on time. we must effectively and timely distribute inventory to stores, maintain an appropriate mix and level of inventory and effectively manage pricing and markdowns. failure to acquire and manage our inventory well and to operate our distribution infrastructure effectively could adversely affect our performance and our relationship with our customers. our success depends upon our marketing, advertising and promotional efforts. if we are unable to implement them successfully, or if our competitors are more effective than we are, our revenue may be adversely affected. we use marketing and promotional programs to attract customers to our stores and to encourage purchases by our customers. we use various media for our promotional efforts, including print, television, database marketing and direct marketing. if we fail to choose the appropriate medium for our efforts, or fail to implement and execute new marketing opportunities, our competitors may be able to attract some of our customers and cause them to decrease purchases in our stores and increase purchases elsewhere, which might negatively impact our revenues. changes in the amount and degree of promotional intensity or merchandising strategy by our competitors could cause us to have difficulties in retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. we have expended and expect to expend significant time and money as a result of the computer intrusion we suffered, and as a result of the computer intrusion, we could incur material losses, and our reputation and business could be materially harmed. we suffered the computer intrusion in which we believe that customer data were stolen. we are conducting an investigation of the computer intrusion. to date, we have been able to identify only some of the information that we believe was stolen. deletions in the ordinary course of business prior to discovery of the computer intrusion and the technology used by the intruder have, to date, made it impossible for us to determine much of the information we believe was stolen, and we believe that we may never be able to identify much of that information. further, we cannot predict whether we will learn information in addition to or different from the information that we now believe about the computer intrusion and the data believed stolen. while we have been advised by law enforcement authorities that they are investigating fraudulent use of payment card information believed stolen from tjx, we do not know the extent of any fraudulent use of such information. some banks and payment card companies have advised us that they have found what they consider to be preliminary evidence of possible fraudulent use of credit payment card information that may have been stolen from us, but they have not shared with us the details of their preliminary findings. we also do not know the extent of any fraudulent use of any of the personal information believed stolen. there could be significant fraudulent use of the information believed stolen from us. we have incurred capital and other costs to investigate and contain the computer intrusion, strengthen our computer security and systems, and communicate with customers, as well as legal, technical and other fees, and we expect to continue to incur significant costs for these purposes. certain banks have sought, and other banks and payment card companies may seek, either directly against us or through claims against our acquiring banks as to which we may have an indemnity obligation, payment of or reimbursement for fraudulent card charges and operating expenses (such as costs of replacing and/or monitoring payment cards thought by them to have been placed at risk by the computer intrusion) that they believe they have incurred by reason of the computer intrusion. in addition, payment card companies and associations may seek to impose fines by reason of the computer intrusion. various litigation has been or may be filed, and various claims have been or may be otherwise asserted, against us and/or our acquiring banks for which we may be responsible, on behalf of customers, banks, payment card companies 13 and shareholders seeking damages allegedly arising out of the computer intrusion and other related relief. we intend to defend such litigation and claims vigorously, although we cannot predict the outcome of such litigation and claims. various governmental entities are investigating the computer intrusion, and although we are cooperating in such investigations, we may be subject to fines or other obligations. we cannot predict what actions such governmental entities will take and what the consequences will be for us. the ultimate resolution of such litigation, claims and investigations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. regardless of the merits and ultimate outcome of these matters, litigation and proceedings of this type are expensive to respond to and defend, and we could devote substantial resources and time to responding to and defending them. beyond the charge we took in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, we do not have enough information to reasonably estimate losses we may incur arising from the computer intrusion. these losses may include losses arising out of claims by payment card companies and banks, customers, shareholders and governmental entities; technical, legal, computer system and other expenses; and other potential liabilities, costs and expenses. such losses could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. further, the publicity associated with the computer intrusion could materially harm our business and relationships with customers. since discovering the computer intrusion, we have taken steps designed to strengthen the security of our computer systems and protocols and have instituted an ongoing program to continue to do so. nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer a future data compromise. we rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential customer information, such as payment card and personal information. we believe that the intruder had access to the decryption algorithm for the encryption software we utilize. further, the systems currently used for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, all of which can put payment card data at risk, are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, not by us. improper activities by third parties, advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and discoveries and other events or developments may facilitate or result in a further compromise or breach of our computer systems. any such further compromises or breaches could cause interruptions in our operations, damage to our reputation and customers willingness to shop in our stores and subject us to additional costs and liabilities. our business is subject to seasonal influences and a decrease in sales or margins during the second half of the year could adversely affect our operating results. our business is subject to seasonal influences; we realize higher levels of sales and income in the second half of the year. any decrease in sales or margins during this period could have a disproportionate effect on our financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to anticipate consumer trends and preferences, our performance could suffer. because our success depends on our ability to keep up with consumer trends, we take steps to address the risk that we will fail to anticipate consumer preferences. these include, for example, maintaining extensive contacts with vendors, with other retailers, as appropriate, and with the national retail federation, comparison shopping and monitoring fashion trends. our buying departments and individual buyers monitor consumer trends and preferences in their respective product categories and areas. we focus on the demographics associated with the customer bases of our divisions and we monitor such demographics in locating new and remodeled stores. nonetheless, we still face the risk that we will fail to effectively anticipate consumer trends and preferences, which failure could adversely affect our operating results. we experience risks associated with our substantial size and scale. we operate eight store chains in several countries. some aspects of the businesses and operations of the chains are conducted with relative autonomy. the large size of our operations, our multiple businesses and the autonomy afforded to the chains increase the risk that systems and practices will not be implemented uniformly throughout our company and that information will not be appropriately shared across different chains and countries. unseasonable weather in the markets in which our stores operate could adversely affect our operating results. customers willingness to shop and their demand for the merchandise in our stores are affected by adverse and unseasonable weather. frequent or unusually heavy snow, ice or rain storms, natural disasters, severe cold or heat or 14 extended periods of unseasonable temperatures in our markets could adversely affect our sales and increase markdowns. we operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to compete effectively. the retail business is highly competitive. we compete for customers, associates, locations, merchandise, services and other important aspects of our business with many other local, regional and national retailers. we also face competition from alternative retail distribution channels such as catalogues, media and internet sites. changes in the merchandising, pricing and promotional activities of those competitors and in the retail industry generally may adversely affect our performance. if we do not attract and retain quality sales, distribution center and other associates in large numbers as well as experienced buying and management personnel, our performance could be adversely affected. our performance is dependent on recruiting, developing, training and retaining quality sales, distribution center and other associates in large numbers as well as experienced buying and management personnel. many of our associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. the nature of the workforce in the retail industry subjects us to the risk of immigration law violations. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. in the event of increasing wage rates, if we do not increase our wages competitively, our customer service could suffer because of a declining quality of our workforce, or our earnings could decrease if we increase our wage rates. in addition, certain associates in our distribution centers are members of unions and therefore subject us to the risk of labor actions. further, our off-price model limits the market for experienced buying and management personnel and requires us to do significant internal training and development. changes that adversely impact our ability to attract and retain quality associates and management personnel could adversely affect our performance. if we engage in mergers or acquisitions of new businesses, or divest any of our current businesses, our business will be subject to additional risks. we have grown our business through mergers and acquisitions. integrating new stores and concepts can be a difficult task. we may consider attractive opportunities to acquire new businesses or to divest any of our current business segments. acquisition or divestiture activities may divert attention of our executive management team away from the existing businesses. we may do a less than optimal job of due diligence or evaluation of target companies. divestiture also involves risks, such as the risk of future exposure on lease obligations. failure to execute on mergers or divestitures in a satisfactory manner could have an adverse effect on our future business prospects or our financial performance in the future. if we are unable to operate information systems and implement new technologies effectively, our business could be disrupted or our sales or profitability could be reduced. the efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and to successfully implement new technologies, systems, controls and adequate disaster recovery systems. in addition, we must protect the confidentiality of our and our customers data. the failure of tjx information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business or subject us to liability and thereby harm our profitability. see also the risk factor above entitled we have expended and expect to expend significant time and money as a result of the computer intrusion we suffered, and as a result of the computer intrusion, we could incur material losses, and our reputation and business could be materially harmed. we depend upon strong cash flows from our operations to support new capital expansion, operations, debt repayment and stock repurchase program. our business is dependent upon our operations generating strong cash flows to support our capital expansion requirements, our general operating activities and our stock repurchase programs and to fund debt repayment and the availability of financing sources. our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities or the lack of availability of financing in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms could adversely affect our financial performance or our earnings per share growth. 15 consumer spending is adversely affected by general economic and other factors, which are beyond our control, and could adversely affect our sales and operating results. interest rates; recession; inflation; deflation; consumer credit availability; consumer debt levels; energy costs; tax rates and policy; unemployment trends; threats or possibilities of war, terrorism or other global or national unrest; actual or threatened epidemics; political or financial instability; and general economic and other factors have significant effects on consumer confidence and spending, which in turn affect sales at tjx and other retailers. these factors are beyond our control and could adversely affect our sales and performance. we are subject to import risks. many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our vendors and to a limited extent by us in many foreign countries. imported merchandise is subject to various risks, including potential disruptions in supply, changes in duties, tariffs, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise, strikes and other events affecting delivery; and economic, political or other problems in countries from or through which merchandise is imported. political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to international trade and imported merchandise are beyond our control and could affect the availability and the price of our inventory. our expanding international operations expose us to risks inherent in foreign operations. we have a significant presence in canada, the united kingdom and ireland, and have plans to expand into germany in fiscal 2008. we may also seek to expand into other international markets in the future. our foreign operations encounter risks similar to those faced by our u.s. operations, as well as risks inherent in foreign operations, such as understanding the retail climate and trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets, complying with foreign laws, rules and regulations, and foreign currency fluctuations, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. changes in laws and regulations and accounting rules and principles could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance. various aspects of our operations are subject to federal, state or local laws, rules and regulations, any of which may change from time to time. generally accepted accounting principles may change from time to time, as well. regulatory developments and changes in accounting rules and principles could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. we maintain internal controls over financial reporting, but they cannot provide absolute assurance that there will not be material errors in our financial reporting. we maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting, but there are limitations inherent in internal control systems. if we are unable to maintain adequate and effective internal control over financial reporting, our financial performance could be adversely affected. a control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. in addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be appropriate relative to their costs. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk on our investment in our canadian (winners and homesense) and european (t.k. maxx) operations. as more fully described in notes a and e to the consolidated financial statements, we hedge a significant portion of our net investment in foreign operations; intercompany transactions with these operations; and certain merchandise purchase commitments incurred by these operations; with derivative financial instruments. we enter into derivative contracts only when there is an underlying economic exposure. we utilize currency forward and swap contracts, designed to offset the gains or losses in the underlying exposures; most of these gains and losses are recorded directly in shareholders equity. the contracts are executed with banks we believe are creditworthy and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates applied to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above. as of january 27, 2007, the analysis indicated that such an adverse movement would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. interest rate risk our cash equivalents and short-term investments and certain lines of credit bear variable interest rates. changes in interest rates affect interest earned and paid by tjx. in addition, changes in the gross amount of our borrowings will affect the impact on our future interest expense of future changes in interest rates. we occasionally enter into financial instruments to manage our cost of borrowing; however, we believe that the use of primarily fixed rate debt minimizes our exposure to market conditions. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates applied to the maximum variable rate debt outstanding during the previous year. as of january 27, 2007, the analysis indicated that such an adverse movement would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. market risk the assets of our qualified pension plan, a large portion of which is invested in equity securities, are subject to the risks and uncertainties of the public stock market. we allocate the pension assets in a manner that attempts to minimize and control our exposure to these market uncertainties.risk factors risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully, in connection with all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. in addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. our disclosure and analysis in this 2007 form 10-k and in our 2007 annual report to shareholders contain some forward-looking statements, including some of the statements made under item 1, business, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, and in our 2007 annual report to stockholders under letter to shareholders and financial graphs. from time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. we have generally identified such statements by using words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, will, target, forecast and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. all statements that address activities, events or developments that we intend, expect or believe may occur in the future are forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. in particular, these include statements relating to future actions, future performance or results of current and anticipated sales, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results. we cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. you should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our form 10-q and 8-k reports to the sec. the risks that follow, individually or in the aggregate, are those that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. our revenue growth could be adversely affected if we do not continue to expand our operations successfully. we have steadily expanded the number of chains and stores we operate and our selling square footage. our revenue growth is dependent upon our ability to continue to expand successfully through new store openings as well as our ability to increase same store sales. successful store growth requires selection of store locations in appropriate geographies, availability of attractive stores or store sites in such locations and negotiation of acceptable terms. competition for desirable sites and increases in real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities. 7 table of contents even if we succeed in opening new stores, these new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores. further, expansion places demands upon us to manage rapid growth, and we may not do so successfully. our quarterly operating results can be subject to significant fluctuations and may fall short of either a prior quarter or investors expectations. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. our earnings may not continue to grow at rates similar to the growth rates achieved in recent years and may fall short of either a prior quarter or investors expectations. if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our share price may decline. factors that could cause us not to meet analysts earnings expectations include some factors that are within our control, such as the execution of our off-price buying; selection, pricing and mix of merchandise; and inventory management including flow, markon and markdowns; and some factors that are not within our control, including actions of competitors, weather conditions, economic conditions and consumer confidence, and seasonality. in addition, if we do not repurchase the number of shares we contemplate pursuant to our stock repurchase programs, our earnings per share may be adversely affected. most of our operating expenses, such as rent expense and associate salaries, do not vary directly with the amount of sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. as a result, if sales in a particular quarter are below expectations for that quarter, we may not proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore such a sales shortfall would have a disproportionate effect on our net income for the quarter. we maintain a forecasting process that seeks to project sales and align expenses. if we do not correctly forecast sales or appropriately adjust to actual results, our financial performance could be adversely affected. our future performance is dependent upon our ability to continue to expand within our existing markets and to extend our off-price model in new product lines, chains and geographic regions. our plans for the future require us to continue to expand rapidly within existing and new markets and geographies. our growth strategy includes developing new ways to sell more merchandise within our existing stores, continued expansion of our existing chains in our existing markets and countries, expansion of these chains to new markets and countries, and development and opening of new concepts, all of which entail significant risk. our growth is dependent upon our ability to successfully extend our off-price retail apparel and home fashions concepts in these ways. if we are unable to successfully do so, our future growth or financial performance could be adversely affected. if we fail to execute our opportunistic buying and inventory management well, our business could be adversely affected. we purchase the majority of our inventory opportunistically with our buyers purchasing close to need. to drive traffic to the stores and to increase same store sales, the treasure hunt nature of the off-price buying experience requires continued replenishment of fresh high quality, attractively priced merchandise in our stores. while opportunistic buying enables our buyers to buy at the right time and price, in the quantities we need and into market trends, it places considerable discretion in our buyers, subjecting us to risks on the timing, quantity and nature of inventory flowing to the stores. we rely on our expansive distribution infrastructure to support delivering goods to our stores on time. we must effectively and timely distribute inventory to stores, maintain an appropriate mix and level of inventory and effectively manage pricing and markdowns. we regularly change the allocation of floor space within our stores among product categories in response to demand. failure to execute our opportunistic inventory buying and inventory management well could adversely affect our performance and our relationship with our customers. if we do not implement our marketing, advertising and promotional programs successfully, or if our competitors are more effective than we are, our revenue may be adversely affected. we use marketing and promotional programs as one of the ways we attract customers to our stores. we use various media for our promotional efforts, including print, television, database marketing and direct marketing. some of our competitors may have substantially larger marketing budgets, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to effectively execute our marketing and promotional programs, and any failure to do so could have a material effect on our revenue and results of operations. 8 table of contents our actual losses arising from the computer intrusion could exceed our reserve for our estimated probable losses, and our reputation and business could be materially harmed as a result of any future data breach. we suffered an unauthorized intrusion or intrusions (such intrusion or intrusions, collectively, the computer intrusion) into portions of our computer system that process and store information related to customer transactions, which was discovered during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and in which we believe that customer data were stolen. various litigation has been or may be filed, and various claims have been or may be otherwise asserted, against us and/or our acquiring banks for which we may be responsible relating to the computer intrusion. we have settled some litigation and claims and while we intend to defend the remaining litigation and claims vigorously, we cannot predict the outcome of such litigation and claims. various governmental entities are investigating the actions of the company with respect to the computer intrusion. although a number of governmental investigations have been completed, we cannot predict what actions the governmental entities in the remaining investigations will take and what the consequences will be for us. we have recorded a reserve that reflects our estimation of probable losses arising from the computer intrusion in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. while this reserve represents our best estimation of total, potential cash liabilities from pending litigation, proceedings, investigations and other claims, as well as legal and other costs and expenses, arising from the computer intrusion, there is no assurance that our actual losses will not be greater. since discovering the computer intrusion, we have taken steps designed to strengthen the security of our computer systems and protocols and have instituted an ongoing program with respect to data security. nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer a future data compromise. we rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential customer information, such as payment card and personal information. further, the systems currently used for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, all of which can put payment card data at risk, are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, not by us. improper activities by third parties, advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and discoveries and other events or developments may facilitate or result in a further compromise or breach of our computer systems. any such further compromises or breaches could cause interruptions in our operations, damage to our reputation and customers willingness to shop in our stores and subject us to additional costs and liabilities. our business is subject to seasonal influences and a decrease in sales or margins during the second half of the year could adversely affect our operating results. our business is subject to seasonal influences; we realize higher levels of sales and income in the second half of the year, which includes the back-to-school and year-end holiday season. any decrease in sales or margins during this period could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to anticipate consumer trends and preferences, our performance could suffer. because our success depends on our ability to keep up with consumer trends, we take steps to address the risk that we will fail to anticipate consumer preferences. these include, for example, maintaining extensive contacts with vendors, with other retailers, as appropriate, and with the national retail federation, comparison shopping and monitoring fashion trends. our buying departments and individual buyers monitor consumer trends and preferences in their respective product categories and areas. we focus on the demographics associated with the customer bases of our divisions and we monitor such demographics in locating new and remodeled stores. opportunistic buying close to need helps us respond to consumer preferences and trends. nonetheless, we still face the risk that we will fail to effectively anticipate consumer trends and preferences, which could adversely affect our results. we experience risks associated with our substantial size and scale. we operate eight store chains in several countries. some aspects of the businesses and operations of the chains are conducted with relative autonomy. the large size of our operations, our multiple businesses and the autonomy afforded to the chains increase the risk that systems and practices will not be implemented uniformly throughout our company and that information will not be appropriately shared across different chains and countries. unseasonable weather in the markets in which our stores operate could adversely affect our operating results. customers willingness to shop and their demand for the merchandise in our stores are affected by adverse and unseasonable weather. frequent or unusually heavy snow, ice or rain storms, severe cold or heat or extended periods of unseasonable temperatures in our markets could adversely affect our sales and increase markdowns. in addition, natural 9 table of contents disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes, or a combination of these or other factors, could severely damage or destroy one or more of our stores or facilities located in the affected areas, thereby disrupting our business operations. we operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to compete effectively. the retail business is highly competitive. we compete for customers, associates, locations, merchandise, services and other important aspects of our business with many other local, regional and national retailers. in addition to other retail stores, we also face competition from other retail distribution channels such as catalogues, media and internet sites. competition is characterized by many factors, including price, value, quality, brand names, merchandise assortment, advertising, marketing and promotional activities, service, location, reputation and credit availability. if we are not able to compete effectively with regard to these factors, our results of operations could be adversely affected. if we do not attract and retain quality sales, distribution center and other associates in large numbers as well as experienced buying and management personnel, our performance could be adversely affected. our performance is dependent on recruiting, developing, training and retaining quality sales, distribution center and other associates in large numbers as well as experienced buying and management personnel. many of our associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. the nature of the workforce in the retail industry subjects us to the risk of immigration law violations, which risk has increased in recent years. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling labor costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and state labor and employment requirements. in the event of increasing wage rates, if we do not increase our wages competitively, our customer service could suffer because of a declining quality of our workforce, or our earnings could decrease if we increase our wage rates. in addition, certain associates in our distribution centers are members of unions and therefore subject us to the risk of labor actions. because of the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must do significant internal training and development. the market for retail management is highly competitive and, in common with other retailers, we face challenges in securing sufficient management talent. changes that adversely impact our ability to attract and retain quality associates and management personnel could adversely affect our performance. if we engage in mergers or acquisitions of new businesses, or divest any of our current businesses, our business will be subject to additional risks. we have grown our business in part through mergers and acquisitions. integrating new stores and concepts can be a difficult task. we may consider opportunities to acquire new businesses or to divest any of our current business segments. acquisition or divestiture activities may divert attention of our executive management team away from the existing businesses. we may do a less than optimal job of due diligence or evaluation of target companies. divestiture also involves risks, such as the risk of future exposure on lease obligations. failure to execute on mergers or divestitures in a satisfactory manner could have an adverse effect on our future business prospects or our financial performance in the future. if we are unable to operate information systems and implement new technologies effectively, our business could be disrupted or our sales or profitability could be reduced. the efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and to successfully implement new technologies, systems, controls and adequate disaster recovery systems. in addition, we must protect the confidentiality of data of our company, our associates, our customers and other third parties. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business or subject us to liability and thereby harm our profitability. we depend upon strong cash flows from our operations to support new capital expansion, operations, debt repayment and stock repurchase program. our business is dependent upon our operations generating strong cash flows to support our capital expansion requirements, our general operating activities and our stock repurchase programs and to fund debt repayment and the availability of financing sources. our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities or the lack of availability of financing in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms could adversely affect our financial performance or our earnings per share growth. 10 table of contents consumer spending is adversely affected by general economic and other factors, which are beyond our control, and could adversely affect our sales and operating results. interest rates; recession; inflation; deflation; consumer credit availability; consumer debt levels; energy costs; tax rates and policy; unemployment trends; threats or possibilities of war, terrorism or other global or national unrest; actual or threatened epidemics; political or financial instability; and general economic, political and other factors beyond our control have significant effects on consumer confidence and spending. consumer spending can, in turn, affect sales at retailers, including tjx. these factors beyond our control could adversely affect our sales and performance. issues with merchandise quality or safety could result in damage to our reputation, sales or financial results. merchandise we sell in our stores is subject to regulation of and regulatory standards set by various governmental authorities with respect to quality and safety. regulations and standards in this area may change from time to time, and substantial additional regulations and standards have been proposed. our inability to comply on a timely basis with regulatory requirements could result in significant fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. issues with the quality and safety of merchandise we sell in our stores, regardless of our fault, or customer concerns about such issues, could result in damage to our reputation, lost sales, uninsured product liability claims or losses, merchandise recalls and increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we are subject to import risks associated with importing merchandise from abroad. many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our vendors and to a limited extent by us in many foreign countries. imported merchandise is subject to various risks, including potential disruptions in supply, changes in duties, tariffs, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise, strikes and other events affecting delivery; consumer perceptions of the safety of imported merchandise, particularly merchandise imported from the people republic of china; and economic, political or other problems in countries from or through which merchandise is imported. political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to international trade and imported merchandise are beyond our control and could affect the availability and the price of our inventory. our expanding international operations expose us to risks inherent in foreign operations. we have a significant presence in canada, the united kingdom and ireland, and have recently expanded into germany. we may also seek to expand into other international markets in the future. our foreign operations encounter risks similar to those faced by our u.s. operations, as well as risks inherent in foreign operations, such as understanding the retail climate and trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets, complying with foreign laws, rules and regulations, and foreign currency fluctuations, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. litigation and changes in laws and regulations and accounting rules and principles could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance. various aspects of our operations are subject to federal, state or local laws, rules and regulations, any of which may change from time to time. generally accepted accounting principles may change from time to time, as well. in addition, we are regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. litigation, regulatory developments and changes in accounting rules and principles could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. we own and lease for long periods significant amounts of real estate, which subjects us to various financial risks. we lease virtually all of our store locations generally for long terms and either own or lease other real estate on which our primary distribution centers and administrative offices are located. accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. while we have the right to terminate some of our leases under specified conditions by making specified payments, we may not be able to cancel a particular lease. if an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may be committed to perform certain obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the rent for the balance of the lease term. when we assign or sublease leased property, we can remain liable if the sublessee does not perform. in addition, as each of the leases expires, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable locations. 11 table of contents our stock price may fluctuate based on market expectations. the public trading of our stock is based in large part on market expectations that our business will continue to grow and that we will achieve certain levels of net income. if the securities analysts that regularly follow our stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the market price of our stock is likely to drop. in addition, if our quarterly financial performance does not meet the expectations of securities analysts, our stock price would likely decline. the decrease in the stock price may be disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance. our results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the price of oil. prices of oil have fluctuated dramatically in the past. these fluctuations may result in an increase in our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and costs to purchase our products from suppliers. a continued rise in oil prices could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products and increase our operating costs, both of which could have an adverse effect on our performance. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk on our investment in our canadian (winners and homesense) and european (t.k. maxx) operations. as more fully described in notes a and e to the consolidated financial statements, we hedge a significant portion of our net investment in foreign operations; intercompany transactions with these operations; and certain merchandise purchase commitments incurred by these operations; with derivative financial instruments. we enter into derivative contracts only when there is an underlying economic exposure. we utilize currency forward and swap contracts, designed to offset the gains or losses in the underlying exposures; most of these gains and losses are recorded directly in shareholders equity. the contracts are executed with banks we believe are creditworthy and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates applied to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above. as of january 26, 2008, the analysis indicated that such an adverse movement would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. interest rate risk our cash equivalents and short-term investments and certain lines of credit bear variable interest rates. changes in interest rates affect interest earned and paid by tjx. in addition, changes in the gross amount of our borrowings and future changes in interest rates will affect our future interest expense. we occasionally enter into financial instruments to manage our cost of borrowing; however, we believe that the use of primarily fixed rate debt minimizes our exposure to market conditions. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates applied to the maximum variable rate debt outstanding during fiscal 2008. as of january 26, 2008, the analysis indicated that such an adverse movement would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. market risk the assets of our qualified pension plan, a large portion of which is invested in equity securities, are subject to the risks and uncertainties of the public stock market. we allocate the pension assets in a manner that attempts to minimize and control our exposure to these market uncertainties. investments, in general, are exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit, and overall market volatility. as such it is reasonably possible that changes in the values of investments will occur in the near term and such changes could affect the amounts reported.risk factors risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully, in connection with all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks that follow, individually or in the aggregate, are those that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements. the adverse changes in global economic conditions and in financial and credit markets have adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect our financial performance. as widely reported, economies worldwide are in crisis, and global financial markets have been experiencing extreme volatility, disruption and credit contraction. the current volatility and disruption to the capital markets have reached unprecedented levels and have significantly adversely impacted global economic conditions and may continue to do so, resulting in additional significant recessionary pressures and declines in employment levels, disposable income and actual and perceived wealth. adverse economic conditions continue to affect consumer confidence and discretionary consumer spending and have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our sales, cash flows and results of operations. additionally, adverse conditions in the financial and credit markets could adversely affect our costs of capital and the sources of liquidity available to us and have increased and could in the future increase our pension funding requirements. finally, the effects and consequences of the current global economic crisis may not yet be known, which could potentially have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources, or otherwise negatively affect our business and financial results. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may lead to lower revenues and earnings. in addition to our u.s. businesses, we operate stores in canada, the u.k., ireland and germany. sales made by our stores outside the united states are denominated in the currency of the country in which the store is located, and changes in foreign exchange rates affect the translation of the sales and earnings of these businesses into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. because of this, movements in exchange rates have had and are expected to continue to have a significant impact on our net sales and earnings. additionally, we routinely enter into inventory-related hedging instruments to mitigate the impact of foreign exchange on merchandise margins of merchandise purchased by our international segments that is denominated in currencies other than their local currencies. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we evaluate the fair value of these hedging instruments and make mark-to-market adjustments at the end of an accounting period. these adjustments are of a much greater magnitude when there is significant volatility in currency exchange rates and may have a significant impact on our earnings. 9 table of contents in addition, changes in foreign exchange rates can increase the cost of inventory purchases by one of our businesses that are denominated in a currency other than the local currency of that business. when these changes occur suddenly, it can be difficult for us to adjust retail prices accordingly, and gross margin can be adversely affected. we expect that such changes may materially affect the gross margins of our canada segment. although we implement foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign exchange rates, we expect that foreign currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations. failure to execute our opportunistic buying and inventory management could adversely affect our business. we purchase the majority of our inventory opportunistically with our buyers purchasing close to need. to drive traffic to the stores and to increase same store sales, the treasure hunt nature of the off-price buying experience requires continued replenishment of fresh, high quality, attractively priced merchandise in our stores. while opportunistic buying enables our buyers to buy at opportune times and prices, in the quantities we need and into market trends, it places considerable discretion in our buyers, subjecting us to risks on the timing, pricing, quantity and nature of inventory flowing to the stores. in addition, we base our purchases of inventory, in part, on sales forecasts. if our sales forecasts do not match customer demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and decreased profit margins if we have excess or slow-moving inventory, or we may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, either of which could adversely affect our financial performance. in addition to acquiring inventory, we must properly execute our inventory management strategies through effectively allocating merchandise among our stores, timely and efficiently distributing inventory to stores, maintaining an appropriate mix and level of inventory in stores, appropriately changing the allocation of floor space of stores among product categories to respond to customer demand and effectively managing pricing and markdowns. failure to execute our opportunistic inventory buying and inventory management well could adversely affect our performance and our relationship with our customers. failure to continue to expand our operations successfully could adversely affect our financial results. we have steadily expanded the number of concepts and stores we operate. our revenue growth is dependent, among other things, upon our ability to continue to expand successfully through new store openings as well as our ability to increase same store sales. successful store growth requires acquisition and development of appropriate real estate including selection of store locations in appropriate geographies, availability of attractive stores or store sites in such locations and negotiation of acceptable terms. competition for desirable sites, increases in real estate, construction and development costs and availability and costs of capital could limit our ability to open new stores in desirable locations in the future or adversely affect the economics of new stores. when we open stores in new markets, we may encounter difficulties in attracting customers due to a lack of customer familiarity with our brand, our lack of familiarity with local customer preferences, and seasonal differences in the market. new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores and may be adversely affected by the sales and profitability of existing stores in their market areas. further, expansion places significant demands on the administrative, merchandising, store operations, distribution and other organizations in our businesses to manage rapid growth, and we may not do so successfully. failure to successfully identify customer trends and preferences to meet customer demand could negatively impact our performance. because our success depends on our ability to meet customer demand, we take various steps to keep up with consumer trends and preferences including contacts with vendors, monitoring product category and fashion trends and comparison shopping and actively monitoring fashion trends. our opportunistic buying model allows us to buy close to need and in response to consumer preferences and trends. however, identifying consumer trends and preferences and successfully meeting customer demand is challenging, and these steps and our off-price buying may be insufficient to do so, which could adversely affect our results. 10 table of contents our quarterly operating results can be subject to significant fluctuations and may fall short of either a prior quarter or investors expectations. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter at points in the past, and they may continue to do so in the future. our earnings may not continue to grow at rates similar to the growth rates achieved in recent years and may fall short of either a prior quarter or investors expectations. if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our share price may decline. factors that could cause us not to meet analysts earnings expectations include some factors that are within our control, such as the execution of our off-price buying; selection, pricing and mix of merchandise; and inventory management including flow, markon and markdowns; and some factors that are not within our control, including actions of competitors, weather conditions, economic conditions and consumer confidence, and seasonality. in addition, if we do not repurchase the number of shares we contemplate pursuant to our stock repurchase program, our earnings per share may be adversely affected. most of our operating expenses, such as rent expense and associate salaries, do not vary directly with the amount of sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. as a result, if sales in a particular quarter are below expectations for that quarter, we may not proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore such a sales shortfall would have a disproportionate effect on our net income for the quarter. we maintain a forecasting process that seeks to project sales and align expenses. if we do not correctly forecast sales or appropriately adjust to actual results, our financial performance could be adversely affected. our future performance is dependent upon our ability to continue to expand within our existing markets and to extend our off-price model in new product lines, chains and geographic regions. our strategy is to continue to expand within existing markets and to expand to new markets and geographies. this growth strategy includes developing new ways to sell more or different merchandise within our existing stores, continued expansion of our existing chains in our existing markets and countries, expansion of these chains to new markets and countries, and development and opening of new chains, all of which entail significant risk. our growth is dependent upon our ability to successfully extend our off-price retail apparel and home fashions concepts in these ways. unsuccessful extension of our model could adversely affect future growth or financial performance. failure to implement our marketing, advertising and promotional programs successfully, or if our competitors are more effective with their programs than we are, may adversely affect our revenue. we use marketing, advertising and promotional programs to attract customers to our stores. we use various media for these programs, including print, television, database marketing and direct marketing. some of our competitors may have substantially larger expenditures for their programs, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to effectively execute our marketing, advertising and promotional programs, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. our actual losses arising from the computer intrusion could exceed our reserve for our estimated probable losses, and our reputation and business could be materially harmed as a result of any future data breach. we suffered an unauthorized intrusion or intrusions (such intrusion or intrusions, collectively, the computer intrusion ) into portions of our computer system that process and store information related to customer transactions, which was discovered late in fiscal 2007 and in which we believe that customer data were stolen. as a result we faced and continue to face litigation, claims and investigations. we have recorded a reserve that reflects our estimation of probable losses arising from the computer intrusion in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. while this reserve represents our best estimation of total, potential cash liabilities from litigation, proceedings, investigations and other claims, as well as legal and other costs and expenses, arising from the computer intrusion, there is no assurance that our actual losses will not be greater. since discovering the computer intrusion, we have taken steps designed to further strengthen the security of our computer system and protocols and have instituted an ongoing program with respect to data security. nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer a future data compromise. we rely on commercially available systems, 11 table of contents software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential customer information, such as payment card and personal information. further, the systems currently used for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, all of which can put payment card data at risk, are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, not by us. improper activities by third parties, advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and discoveries and other events or developments may facilitate or result in a further compromise or breach of our computer system. any such further compromises or breaches could cause interruptions in our operations, damage to our reputation and customers willingness to shop in our stores, violation of applicable laws, regulations, orders and agreements, and subject us to additional costs and liabilities which could be material. our business is subject to seasonal influences and a decrease in sales or margins during the second half of the year could adversely affect our operating results. our business is subject to seasonal influences; we generally realize higher levels of sales and income in the second half of the year, which includes the back-to-school and year-end holiday seasons. any decrease in sales or margins during this period could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we experience risks associated with our substantial size and scale. we operate seven retail concepts in several countries. some aspects of the businesses and operations of the concepts are conducted with relative autonomy. the large size of our operations, our multiple businesses and the autonomy afforded to the concepts increase the risk that systems and practices will not be implemented uniformly throughout our company and that information will not be appropriately shared across different concepts and countries. unseasonable weather in the markets in which our stores operate or our distribution centers are located could adversely affect our operating results. adverse and unseasonable weather affects customers willingness to shop and their demand for the merchandise in our stores. frequent or unusually heavy snow, ice or rain storms, severe cold or heat or extended periods of unseasonable temperatures in our markets could adversely affect our sales and increase markdowns. in addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods and earthquakes could severely damage or destroy one or more of our stores or distribution facilities located in the affected areas or result in the suspension of business in the affected areas or in areas served by the affected distribution center, thereby disrupting our business operations. we operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to compete effectively. the retail business is highly competitive. we compete with many other local, regional, national and international retailers that sell apparel, home fashions and other merchandise that we sell, whether in stores, through catalogs or media or over the internet. we compete on the basis of quality, price, value, merchandise selection and freshness, brand name recognition, service, reputation and store location. other competitive factors that influence the demand for the merchandise we sell include our advertising, marketing and promotional activities and the name recognition and reputation of our chains. if we fail to compete effectively, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. failure to attract and retain quality sales, distribution center and other associates in appropriate numbers as well as experienced buying and management personnel could adversely affect our performance. our performance depends on recruiting, developing, training and retaining quality sales, distribution center and other associates in large numbers as well as experienced buying and management personnel. many of our associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. the nature of the workforce in the retail industry subjects us to the risk of immigration law violations, which risk has increased in recent years. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling labor costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and governmental labor and employment requirements. in the event of increasing wage rates, if we fail to increase our wages competitively, the quality of our workforce could decline, causing our customer service to suffer, while increasing our wages could cause our earnings to decrease. in addition, certain associates in our distribution centers are members of unions and therefore subject us to the risk of labor actions. because of the distinctive nature of our off-price model, 12 table of contents we must do significant internal training and development for a substantial number of our associates. the market for retail management is highly competitive and, in common with other retailers, we face challenges in securing sufficient management talent. changes that adversely impact our ability to attract and retain quality associates and management personnel could adversely affect our performance. if we engage in mergers or acquisitions of new businesses, or divest any of our current businesses, our business will be subject to additional risks. we have grown our business in part through mergers and acquisitions. we may consider opportunities to acquire new businesses or to divest current businesses. acquisition or divestiture activities may divert attention of management from operating the existing businesses. we may do a less-than-optimal job of evaluating target companies and their risks and benefits, and integration of acquisitions can be difficult and time-consuming. acquisitions may not meet our expectations or may expose us to unexpected or greater-than-expected liabilities. divestiture also involves risks, such as the risks of exposure on lease obligations, obligations undertaken in the disposition and potential liabilities that may arise under law as a result of the disposition or the subsequent failure of the acquirer. failure to execute on mergers or divestitures in a satisfactory manner could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. failure to operate information systems and implement new technologies effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability. the efficient operation of our business depends on our information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and to successfully select and implement new technologies, systems, controls and adequate disaster recovery systems. we must operate and implement these systems and technologies such that we protect the confidentiality of data of our company, our associates, our customers and other third parties. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business or subject us to liability and thereby harm our profitability. we depend upon strong cash flows from our operations to support new capital expansion, operations, debt repayment, stock repurchase program and dividends. our business depends upon our operations to generate strong cash flows and upon the availability of financing sources to support our capital expansion requirements, general operating activities, stock repurchase program and dividends and to fund debt repayment. our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities or the lack of availability of financing in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms could adversely affect our financial performance or our earnings per share growth. general economic and other factors adversely affect consumer spending, which could adversely affect our sales and operating results. interest rates; recession; inflation; deflation; consumer credit availability; consumer debt levels; energy costs; tax rates and policy; unemployment trends; threats or possibilities of war, terrorism or other global or national unrest; actual or threatened epidemics; political or financial instability; and general economic, political and other factors beyond our control have significant effects on consumer confidence and spending. consumer spending, in turn, affects sales at retailers, which could include tjx. these factors could adversely affect our sales and performance if we do not successfully implement strategies to mitigate them. issues with merchandise quality or safety could damage our reputation, sales or financial results. various governmental authorities regulate the quality and safety of the merchandise we sell in our stores. regulations and standards in this area, including those related to the recently enacted consumer product safety improvement act of 2008 in the united states, may change from time to time. our inability to comply on a timely basis with regulatory requirements could result in significant fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. issues with the quality and safety of merchandise we sell in our stores, regardless of our fault, or customer concerns about such issues, could cause damage to our reputation, lost sales, uninsured product liability claims or losses, merchandise recalls and increased costs, and regulatory, civil or criminal fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 13 table of contents we are subject to import risks associated with importing merchandise from abroad. many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our vendors and to a limited extent by us in many foreign countries. as a result, we are subject to the various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: potential disruptions in supply; changes in duties, tariffs, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise; strikes and other events affecting delivery; consumer perceptions of the safety of imported merchandise, particularly merchandise imported from the people republic of china; and economic, political or other problems in countries from or through which merchandise is imported. political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to international trade and imported merchandise could affect the availability and the price of our inventory. our expanding international operations expose us to risks inherent in foreign operations. we have a significant retail presence in canada, the united kingdom and ireland, and have recently expanded into germany. our goal is to continue to expand into other international markets in the future. our foreign operations encounter risks similar to those faced by our u.s. operations, as well as risks inherent in foreign operations, such as understanding the retail climate and trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets, complying with foreign laws, rules and regulations, and foreign currency fluctuations, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. our results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the price of oil. prices of oil have fluctuated dramatically in the past. these fluctuations may result in an increase in our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and costs to purchase our products from suppliers. a continued rise in oil prices could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products and increase our operating costs, both of which could have an adverse effect on our performance. changes in laws and regulations and outcomes of litigation and proceedings could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance. we are subject to federal, state, provincial or local laws, rules and regulations in the united states and abroad, any of which may change from time to time in ways which could materially adversely affect our operations and our financial results and condition. we are from time to time involved in litigation and proceedings, the outcomes of which if determined adversely to us could materially adversely affect our operations and our financial results and condition. in addition, u.s. generally accepted accounting principles in accordance with which we prepare our financial statements may change from time to time, and these changes could have material effects on our reported financial results and condition. we own and lease for long periods significant amounts of real estate, which subjects us to various financial risks. we lease virtually all of our store locations generally for long terms and either own or lease for long periods our primary distribution centers and administrative offices. accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. while we have the right to terminate some of our leases under specified conditions by making specified payments, we may not be able to terminate a particular lease if or when we would like to do so. if an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may be committed to perform obligations under the applicable lease, including, among other things, paying rent and operating expenses for the balance of the lease term, or exercising rights to terminate, and the performance of any of these obligations may be expensive. when we assign or sublease leased property, we can remain liable on the lease obligations if the assignee or sublessee does not perform. in 14 table of contents addition, when leases expire, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores. our stock price may fluctuate based on market expectations. the public trading of our stock is based in large part on market expectations that our business will continue to grow and that we will achieve certain levels of net income. if the securities analysts that regularly follow our stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the market price of our stock is likely to drop. in addition, if our quarterly financial performance does not meet the expectations of securities analysts, our stock price would likely decline. the decrease in the stock price may be disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. foreign currency exchange risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk on our investment in our canadian (winners and homesense) and european (t.k. maxx and homesense) operations and on the translation of these foreign operations into the u. s. dollar. as more fully described in notes a and e to the consolidated financial statements to the annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2009, we hedge a significant portion of our intercompany transactions with foreign operations and certain merchandise purchase commitments incurred by these operations, with derivative financial instruments. during fiscal 2009 we ceased hedging our net investment position in our foreign operations. we enter into derivative contracts only when there is an underlying economic exposure. we utilize currency forward and swap contracts, designed to offset the gains or losses in the underlying exposures. the contracts are executed with banks we believe are creditworthy and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates applied to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above as well as the translation of our foreign operations into our reporting currency. as of january 31, 2009, the analysis indicated that such an adverse movement would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position but could have reduced our pre-tax income from continuing operations for fiscal 2009 by approximately $37 million. interest rate risk our cash equivalents and short-term investments and certain lines of credit bear variable interest rates. changes in interest rates affect interest earned and paid by us. in addition, changes in the gross amount of our borrowings and future changes in interest rates will affect our future interest expense. we occasionally enter into financial instruments to manage our cost of borrowing; however, we believe that the use of primarily fixed rate debt minimizes our exposure to market conditions. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates applied to the maximum variable rate debt outstanding. as of january 31, 2009, the analysis indicated that such an adverse movement would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 36 table of contents equity price risk the assets of our qualified pension plan, a large portion of which is invested in equity securities, are subject to the risks and uncertainties of the public stock market. we allocate the pension assets in a manner that attempts to minimize and control our exposure to these market uncertainties. investments, in general, are exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit, and overall market volatility. as a result of the significant decline in the capital markets in 2009 the value of our pension plan assets decreased substantially increasing the unfunded status of our plan and reducing shareholder equity on our balance sheet.risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully, in connection with all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks that follow, individually or in the aggregate, are those that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements. failure to execute our opportunistic buying and inventory management could adversely affect our business. we purchase the majority of our apparel inventory and much of our home inventory opportunistically with our buyers purchasing close to need. establishing the treasure hunt nature of the off-price buying experience to drive traffic to the stores and to increase same store sales requires us to offer rapidly changing assortments of merchandise in our stores. while opportunistic buying provides our buyers the ability to buy at desirable times and prices, in the quantities we need and into market trends, it places considerable discretion in our buyers, subjecting us to risks related to the pricing, quantity, nature and timing of inventory flowing to our stores. if we are unable to provide frequent replenishment of fresh, high quality, attractively priced merchandise in our stores, it could adversely affect traffic to the stores as well as our sales and margins. we base our purchases of inventory, in part, on our sales forecasts. if our sales forecasts do not match customer demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and need to take markdowns on excess or slow-moving inventory, leading to decreased profit margins, or we may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, leading to lost sales, either of which could adversely affect our financial performance. we need to purchase inventory sufficiently below conventional retail to maintain our pricing differential to regular department and specialty store prices and to attract customers and sustain our margins, which we may not achieve at various times or in some divisions or geographies and which could adversely affect our results or those of one of our segments. we must also properly execute our inventory management strategies by appropriately allocating merchandise among our stores, timely and efficiently distributing inventory to stores, maintaining an appropriate mix and level of inventory in stores, appropriately changing the allocation of floor space of stores among product categories to respond to customer demand and effectively managing pricing and markdowns, and there is no assurance we will be able to do so. in addition to our own execution, inventory flow may be adversely affected by factors outside our control, such as extreme weather or natural disasters or other changes in conditions affecting our vendors and others in our supply chain, such as political instability, labor issues or increasing cost or regulations. if we are not able to adjust appropriately to such factors, our merchandise distribution may be affected. failure to execute our opportunistic inventory buying and inventory management well could adversely affect our performance and our relationship with our customers. failure to continue to expand our operations successfully or to manage our substantial size and scale effectively could adversely affect our financial results. our revenue growth is dependent, among other things, on our ability to continue to expand successfully through successfully opening new stores as well as increasing the sales of our existing stores. successful store growth requires acquisition and development of appropriate store real estate including availability and selection of appropriate sites in appropriate geographies and negotiation of acceptable terms. competition for desirable sites; increases in real estate, construction and development costs; variations in or changes to zoning or other land use regulations as well as costs and availability of capital could limit our ability to open new stores successfully in various markets or adversely affect the economics of new stores in various markets. we may encounter difficulties in attracting customers when we enter new markets for various reasons, including customers lack of familiarity with our brands or our lack of familiarity with local customer preferences or cultural differences. new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores, and new and existing stores in a market may adversely affect each other sales and profitability. further, expansion places significant demands on management and the administrative, merchandising, store operations, distribution, compliance and other organizations in our businesses, and we may not successfully 9 manage our growth. under our business model, some aspects of the businesses and operations of our chains in the u.s., canada and europe are conducted with relative autonomy. the large size and scale of our operations, our multiple businesses in the u.s., canada and europe and the autonomy afforded to the chains increase the risk that our systems and practices will not be implemented appropriately throughout our company and that information may not be appropriately shared across our operations, which risks may increase as we continue to grow, particularly in different countries. if business information is not shared effectively or we are otherwise unable to manage our growth effectively, we may operate with decreased operational efficiency, may need to reduce our rate of expansion of one or more operations or otherwise curtail growth in one or more markets, which may adversely affect our success in executing our business goals and adversely impact our sales and results. failure to identify customer trends and preferences to meet customer demand could negatively impact our performance. because our success depends on our ability to meet customer demand, we work to follow customer trends and preferences on an ongoing basis and to buy inventory in response to those trends and preferences. however, identifying consumer trends and preferences in the diverse product lines and many markets in which we do business and successfully meeting customer demand across those lines and for those markets on a timely basis is challenging. although our flexible business model allows us to buy close to need and in response to consumer preferences and trends and to expand and contract merchandise categories in response to consumers changing tastes, we may not successfully do so, which could adversely affect our results. our future performance is dependent upon our ability to continue to expand within our existing markets and to extend our off-price model in new product lines, banners and geographic regions. our strategy is to continue to expand within existing markets, to expand to new markets and geographies and to attract new customers in existing and new markets across demographics. in addition to the risks associated with finding appropriate locations and managing our existing business effectively, this growth strategy includes developing new ways to sell more or different categories of merchandise within our existing stores, continued expansion of our existing chains in our existing markets and countries, expansion of these chains to new markets and countries, and development or acquisition of new banners or businesses, including our planned expansion into e-commerce, all of which entail significant risk. our growth is dependent upon our ability to successfully extend our business in these ways and on managing the timing and implementation of our growth effectively. if any aspect of our expansion strategy does not achieve the success we expect in whole or in part, we may be required to increase our investment or close stores or operations. unsuccessful expansion of our model could adversely affect growth and financial performance. if we fail to successfully implement our marketing, advertising and promotional programs, or if our competitors are more effective with their programs than we are, our revenue may be adversely affected. although we use marketing, advertising and promotional programs to attract customers to our stores through various media including print, television, social media, database marketing and direct marketing, some of our competitors expend more for their programs than we do, or use different approaches than we do, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to execute our marketing, advertising and promotional programs effectively, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. in addition, internet-based communication channels are evolving rapidly, and we may not adjust our programs effectively to reflect the changing forms of social media and other methods of communication. we operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to compete effectively. the retail apparel and home fashion business is highly competitive. we compete with many other local, regional, national and international retailers that sell apparel, home fashions and other merchandise we sell, whether in stores, through catalogues or other media or over the internet. some of our competitors are larger than we are, have more experience in selling certain products or have greater financial resources than we do; new competitors frequently enter the market, and existing competitors enter or increase their presence in the 10 markets in which we operate, expand their merchandise offerings or change their pricing methods. we compete on the basis of fashion, quality, price, value, merchandise selection and freshness, brand-name recognition, service, reputation and store location. other competitive factors that influence the demand for our merchandise include our advertising, marketing and promotional activities and the name recognition and reputation of our chains. if we fail to compete effectively, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. failure to attract, train and retain quality sales, distribution center and other associates in appropriate numbers as well as experienced buying and management personnel could adversely affect our performance. our performance depends on recruiting, developing, training and retaining quality sales, systems, distribution center and other associates in large numbers as well as experienced buying and management personnel. many of our associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. availability and skill of associates may differ across markets in which we do business and as we enter new markets, and our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling labor costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, changing demographics, health care reform, health and other insurance costs and governmental labor and employment requirements. the nature of the workforce in the retail industry also subjects us to the risk of immigration law violations, which risk has increased in recent years, and certain associates in our distribution centers are members of unions and therefore subject us to the risk of labor actions. in addition, any failure of third-parties that perform services on our behalf to comply with immigration, employment or other laws could damage our reputation or disrupt our ability to obtain needed labor. in the event of increasing wage rates in a market, failure to increase our wages competitively could result in a decline in the quality of our workforce, causing our customer service to suffer, while increasing our wages could cause our earnings to decrease. in addition, because of the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must do significant internal training and development for key associates. the market for retail management is highly competitive and, similar to other retailers, we face challenges in securing sufficient management talent. if we do not continue to attract, train and retain management personnel and other quality associates, our performance could be adversely affected. global economic conditions may adversely affect our financial performance. during the recent economic recession, global financial markets experienced extreme volatility, disruption and credit contraction, which adversely affected global economic conditions. renewed financial turmoil in the financial and credit markets could adversely affect our costs of capital and the sources of liquidity available to us and could increase our pension funding requirements. economic conditions, both on a global level and in particular markets, including continued unemployment, decreased disposable income and actual and perceived wealth, high energy and health care costs, interest and tax rates and policies, weakness in the housing market, volatility in capital markets and tighter credit, as well as political or other factors beyond our control such as threats or possibilities of war, terrorism global or national unrest, actual or threatened epidemics, and political or financial instability also have significant effects on consumer confidence and spending. consumer spending, in turn, affects retail sales. these conditions and factors could adversely affect discretionary consumer spending and, although we benefit from being an off-price retailer, may adversely affect our sales, cash flows and results of operations and performance. compromises of our data security could materially harm our reputation and business. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store certain personal information from individuals, such as our customers and associates, and we process customer payment card and check information. we suffered an unauthorized intrusion or intrusions (such intrusion or intrusions, collectively, the computer intrusion ) into portions of our computer system that process and store information related to customer transactions, discovered late in fiscal 2007, in which we believe customer data were stolen. we have taken steps designed to further strengthen the security of our computer system and protocols and have instituted an ongoing program with respect to data security, consistent with a consent order with the federal trade commission, to assess the ongoing effectiveness of our information security program and to maintain and enhance our program as appropriate. nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer a future data compromise, that unauthorized parties will not gain access to personal information, or that any such data compromise or access will be discovered in a timely way. 11 we rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. further, the systems currently used for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, all of which can put payment card data at risk, are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, not by us. this is also true for check information and approval. computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our computer system and, if successful, misappropriate personal information, payment card or check information or confidential business information of our company. in addition, our associates, contractors or third parties with whom we do business or to whom we outsource business operations may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to misappropriate such information, and may purposefully or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and other developments may increase the risk of such a breach. compromise of our data security, failure to prevent or mitigate the loss of personal or business information and delays in detecting any such compromise or loss could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and customers willingness to shop in our stores, violate applicable laws, regulations, orders and agreements, and subject us to additional costs and liabilities which could be material. failure to operate information systems and implement new technologies effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability. we rely extensively on various information systems, data centers and software applications to manage many aspects of our business, including to process and record transactions in our stores, to enable effective communication systems, to plan and track inventory flow, and to generate performance and financial reports. we are dependent on the integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems and related back-up systems. our computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, cyber-attacks, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism and usage errors by our associates or contractors. we incur expenses to maintain our systems and to address the risk of interruptions in service. interruptions or shutdowns of our systems could lead to delays in our business operations and, if significant or extreme, affect our results of operations. we modify and update our systems and infrastructure, such as with new data centers, replace or update legacy systems and may acquire new systems with additional functionality, such as for the development of an e-commerce business. although we believe we are diligent in selecting vendors, systems and procedures to enable us to maintain the integrity of our systems, we recognize that there are inherent risks associated with these modifications and acquisitions, including accurately capturing and maintaining data, realizing the expected benefit of the change and the possibility of system disruptions as the changes are implemented. the efficient operation and successful growth of our business depends upon these information systems, including our ability to operate and maintain them effectively and to select and implement appropriate new technologies, systems, controls, data centers and adequate disaster recovery systems successfully. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business or subject us to liability and thereby harm our profitability. as our business is subject to seasonal influences, a decrease in sales or margins during the second half of the year could have a disproportionately adverse affect on our operating results. our business is subject to seasonal influences; we generally realize higher levels of sales and income in the second half of the year, which includes the back-to-school and year-end holiday seasons. any decrease in sales or margins during this period could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our results of operations. adverse or unseasonable weather in the markets in which our stores operate or our distribution centers are located could adversely affect our operating results. both adverse and unseasonable weather affect customers buying patterns and willingness to shop and accordingly the demand for the merchandise in our stores, particularly in seasonal apparel . severe weather can also affect our ability to transport merchandise to our stores from our distribution and shipping centers or 12 elsewhere in our supply chain. as a result, unusually extreme or unseasonable weather in our markets, such as snow, ice or rain storms, severe cold or heat or extended periods of unseasonable temperatures, could adversely affect our sales, increase markdowns and adversely affect our operating results. our results may be adversely affected by serious disruptions or catastrophic events. unforeseen public health issues, such as pandemics and epidemics, as well as natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes and other extreme weather and climate conditions in any of our markets could disrupt our operations or the operations of one or more of our vendors or could severely damage or destroy one or more of our stores or distribution facilities located in the affected areas. day-to-day operations, particularly our ability to receive products from our vendors or transport products to our stores could be adversely affected, or we could be required to close stores or distribution centers in the affected areas or in areas served by affected distribution centers. as a result, our business could be adversely affected. damage to our corporate reputation or those of our banners could adversely affect our sales and operating results. we believe that building the brand reputation of our retail banners is an important part of our marketing efforts and we expend resources building relationships with our customers through our print marketing, websites, social media and other means. we also develop private label brands for certain merchandise sold in our stores. reputational value is based, in part, on perceptions of subjective qualities, so isolated incidents involving us or our merchandise that erode trust or confidence could adversely affect our reputation and our business, particularly if the incidents result in significant adverse publicity or governmental inquiry. similarly, information posted about us, our banners or our merchandise, including our private label brands, on social media platforms and similar venues, including blogs, social media websites, and other forums for internet-based communications that allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons may adversely affect our reputation and brand, even if the information is inaccurate. damage to the perception or reputation of our company and our banners could result in declines in customer loyalty and sales, affect our vendor relationships, development opportunities and associate retention and otherwise adversely affect our business. issues with merchandise quality or safety could damage our reputation, sales and financial results. various governmental authorities in the jurisdictions where we do business regulate the quality and safety of the merchandise we sell in our stores. regulations and standards in this area, including those related to the consumer product safety improvement act of 2008 in the united states and similar legislation in other countries in which we operate, change from time to time. also, new state or local regulations that may affect our business are contemplated and enacted with some regularity. our inability to comply with regulatory requirements on a timely basis or at all could result in significant fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we rely on our vendors to provide quality merchandise that complies with applicable product safety laws and other applicable laws, but they may not comply with their contractual obligations with us to do so. although our arrangements with our vendors frequently provide for indemnification for product liabilities, the vendors may fail to honor those obligations to an extent we consider sufficient or at all. issues with the quality and safety of merchandise, particularly with food, bath and body and children products, or issues with the genuineness of merchandise , regardless of our fault, or customer concerns about such issues, could cause damage to our reputation and could result in lost sales, uninsured product liability claims or losses, merchandise recalls and increased costs, and regulatory, civil or criminal fines or penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. our expanding international operations increasingly expose us to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. we have a significant retail presence in canada and europe and have established buying offices around the world, and our goal as a global retailer is to continue to expand our operations into other international markets in the future. in addition to facing risks similar to our u.s. operations, our foreign operations encounter risks inherent in foreign operations, such as understanding the retail climate and trends, local customs and competitive 13 conditions in foreign markets, complying with foreign laws, rules and regulations, as well as risks from foreign currency fluctuations, adverse tax consequences or limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds, which could have an adverse impact on our operations or profitability. complying with foreign and u.s. laws and our own internal policies may require us to spend additional time and resources to implement new procedures and financial controls, conduct audits, train associates and third parties on our compliance methods or take other actions, which could adversely impact our operations. we are subject to risks associated with importing merchandise from foreign countries. many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our vendors and, to a lesser extent, by us, in many foreign countries, particularly southeastern asia. where we are the importer of record, we may be subject to regulatory or other requirements similar to those imposed upon the manufacturer of such products. we are subject to the various risks of importing merchandise from abroad and purchasing product made in foreign countries, such as: potential disruptions in manufacturing, logistics and supply; changes in duties, tariffs, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise; strikes and other events affecting delivery; consumer perceptions of the safety of imported merchandise; product compliance with laws and regulations of the destination country; product liability claims from customers or penalties from government agencies relating to products that are recalled, defective or otherwise noncompliant or alleged to be harmful; concerns about human rights, working conditions and other labor rights and conditions in foreign countries where merchandise is produced, and changing labor, environmental and other laws in these countries; compliance with laws and regulations concerning ethical business practices, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act; exposure for product warranty and intellectual property issues; and economic, political or other problems in countries from or through which merchandise is imported. political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, labor conditions, transport capacity and costs, systems issues, problems in third party distribution and warehousing and other interruptions of the supply chain, compliance with u.s. and foreign laws and regulations and other factors relating to international trade and imported merchandise beyond our control could affect the availability and the price of our inventory. furthermore, although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations relating to doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, there can be no assurance that contractors, agents, vendors or other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies, which could subject us to liability and could adversely affect our operations or operating results. our results may be adversely affected by reduced availability or increases in the price of oil or other fuels, raw materials and other commodities. energy and fuel costs have fluctuated dramatically in the past, particularly the price of oil and gasoline, which have recently risen significantly. an increase in the price of oil increases our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and costs to purchase our products from suppliers. although we have implemented a hedging strategy designed to manage a portion of our transportation costs, increases in oil and gasoline prices could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products and increase our operating costs, which could have an adverse effect on our performance. increased regulation related to environmental costs, including cap and trade or other emissions management systems could also affect the costs of doing business, including utility costs, transportation and logistics. 14 similarly, other commodity prices can fluctuate dramatically, such as the cost of cotton and synthetic fabrics, which at times have risen significantly. such increases can increase the cost of merchandise, which could adversely affect our performance through potentially reduced consumer demand or reduced margins. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may lead to lower revenues and earnings. in addition to our u.s. businesses, we operate stores in canada and europe and plan to continue to expand our international operations. sales made by our stores outside the united states are denominated in the currency of the country in which the store is located, and changes in foreign exchange rates affect the translation of the sales and earnings of these businesses into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. because of this, movements in exchange rates have had and are expected to continue to have a significant impact on our consolidated and segment results from time to time. changes in foreign currency exchange rates can also increase the cost of inventory purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the local currency of the business. when these changes occur suddenly, it can be difficult for us to adjust retail prices accordingly, and gross margin can be adversely affected. a significant amount of merchandise we offer for sale is made in china and accordingly, a revaluation of the chinese currency, or increased market flexibility in the exchange rate for that currency, increasing its value relative to the u.s. dollar or currencies in which our stores are located could be particularly significant. additionally, we routinely enter into inventory-related hedging instruments to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on merchandise margins of merchandise purchased by our segments that is denominated in currencies other than their local currencies. in accordance with gaap, we evaluate the fair value of these hedging instruments and make mark-to-market adjustments at the end of an accounting period. these adjustments are of a much greater magnitude when there is significant volatility in currency exchange rates and may have a significant impact on our earnings. although we implement foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign exchange rates, we expect that foreign currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations. in addition, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our earnings and operating results if a counterparty to one of our hedging arrangements fails to perform. our quarterly operating results fluctuate and may fall short of prior periods, our projections or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could adversely affect our stock price. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter at points in the past, and they may continue to do so in the future. the public trading of our stock is based in large part on market expectations that our business will continue to grow and that we will achieve certain levels of increased net income and earnings per share. our results have at points in the past fallen short of results in prior periods, our projections or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, and they may do so in the future. if we fail to increase our results over prior periods, to achieve our projected results or to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our share price may decline, and the decrease in the stock price may be disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance. factors that could cause us not to do so include some factors that are within our control, such as the execution of our off-price buying; selection, pricing and mix of merchandise; inventory management including flow, pricing markon and markdowns; and management of our growth; and some factors that are not within our control, including actions of competitors, weather conditions, economic conditions, consumer confidence, seasonality, and cost increases due, among other things, to government regulation and increased healthcare costs. most of our operating expenses, such as rent expense and associate salaries, do not vary directly with the amount of our sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. as a result, if sales in a particular quarter are below expectations for that quarter, we may not be able to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, resulting in a disproportionate effect on our net income for the quarter. we maintain a forecasting process that seeks to project sales and align expenses. if we do not correctly 15 forecast sales and control costs or appropriately adjust costs to actual results, our financial performance could be adversely affected. in addition, if we do not repurchase the number of shares we contemplate pursuant to our stock repurchase programs, our earnings per share may be adversely affected. if we engage in mergers or acquisitions of new businesses, or divest, close or consolidate any of our current businesses, our business will be subject to additional risks. we have grown our business in part through mergers and acquisitions and may acquire new businesses or divest, close or consolidate current businesses. acquisition or divestiture activities may divert attention of management from operating the existing businesses . we may not effectively evaluate target companies or assess the risks, benefits and cost of integration of acquisitions, which can be difficult, time-consuming and dilutive. acquisitions may not meet our performance and other expectations or may expose us to unexpected or greater-than-expected liabilities and risks. divestitures, closings and consolidations also involve risks, such as significant costs and obligations of closure, including exposure on leases, owned real estate and other contractual, employment and severance obligations, and potential liabilities that may arise under law as a result of the disposition or the subsequent failure of an acquirer. failure to execute on mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, closings and consolidations in a satisfactory manner could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. failure to comply with existing laws, regulations and orders or changes in existing laws and regulations could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance. we are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws, rules and regulations in the united states and abroad, any of which may change from time to time, as well as orders and assurances. these legal, regulatory and administrative requirements collectively affect multiple aspects of our business, from cost of health care, workforce management, logistics, marketing, import/export and others. if we fail to comply with these laws, rules, regulations and orders, we may be subject to fines or other penalties, which could materially adversely affect our operations and our financial results and condition. further, gaap may change from time to time, and the changes could have material effects on our reported financial results and condition. we must also comply with new and changing laws and regulations. new legislative and regulatory initiatives and reforms in the u.s. and internationally could increase our costs of compliance or of doing business and could adversely affect our operating results, including those involving: labor and employment rights, including addressing rights of labor unions; consumer protection and financial regulations; data protection and privacy; climate change, energy or waste, at local, state or federal level; internet regulations, including regarding e-commerce, electronic communications and privacy; and protection of third party intellectual property rights. our results may be materially adversely affected by the outcomes of litigation, legal proceedings and other legal matters. we are involved, or may in the future become involved, in various legal proceedings, regulatory reviews and audits. these may involve local, state and federal government inquiries and investigations; tax, employment, real estate, tort, consumer and intellectual property litigation; or other disputes. there have been a growing number of employment-related lawsuits, including class actions, in the united states, and we are subject to these types of suits. in addition, we may be subject to investigations and other proceedings by regulatory agencies, including consumer protection laws, product safety laws, advertising regulations, escheat and employment and wage and hour regulations. we cannot predict the results of legal and regulatory proceedings with certainty, and actual results may differ from reserves we establish estimating the probable outcome. regardless of merit, litigation can be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and may cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations could expose us to 16 significant defense costs, fines, penalties and liability to private parties and governmental entities for monetary recoveries and other amounts and attorneys fees and/or require us to change aspects of our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. tax matters could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our effective income tax rate and future tax liability could be adversely affected by numerous factors including the results of tax audits and examinations, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory income tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory income tax rates, changes in income tax rates, changes in transfer pricing, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in u.s. tax legislation and regulation, changes in foreign tax laws, regulations and treaties, exposure to additional tax liabilities, changes in accounting principles and interpretations relating to tax matters, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition in future periods. we are subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns and reports by federal, state and local tax authorities in the u.s. and foreign countries, and the examining authorities may challenge positions we take. we are engaged in various proceedings with such authorities and in court with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these proceedings to determine the adequacy and appropriateness of our provision for income taxes, and increase and decrease our provision as a result of these assessments. however, the actual results of proceedings as the result of rulings by or settlements with tax authorities and courts or due to changes in facts, law or legal interpretations, expiration of applicable statutes of limitations or other resolutions of tax positions could differ from the amounts we have accrued for such proceedings in either a positive or a negative manner, which could materially affect our effective income tax rate in a given financial period, the amount of taxes we are required to pay and our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to tax audits and examinations for payroll, value added, sales- based and other taxes relating to our businesses. our real estate leases generally obligate us for long periods, which subjects us to various financial risks. we lease virtually all of our store locations, generally for long terms, and either own or lease for long periods our primary distribution centers and administrative offices. accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with leasing and owning real estate, which can have a material adverse effect on our results, for example, as has been reflected in our reserve for former operations. while we have the right to terminate some of our leases under specified conditions by making specified payments, we may not be able to terminate a particular lease if or when we would like to do so. if we decide to close stores, we are generally required to continue to perform obligations under the applicable leases, which generally includes, among other things, paying rent and operating expenses for the balance of the lease term, or paying to exercise rights to terminate, and the performance of any of these obligations may be expensive. when we assign or sublease leases, we can remain liable on the lease obligations if the assignee or sublessee does not perform. in addition, when leases for the stores in our ongoing operations expire, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores. we depend upon strong cash flows from our operations to supply capital to fund our expansion, operations, interest and debt repayments, stock repurchases and dividends. our business depends upon our operations to generate strong cash flow, and to some extent upon the availability of financing sources, to supply capital to fund our expansions, general operating activities, stock repurchases, dividends, interest and debt repayments. our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities, to access cash across our international operations or the lack of availability of financing in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms when needed could adversely affect our financial performance including our earnings per share. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk tjx is exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of business, some potential market risks are discussed below: foreign currency exchange risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk on the translation of our foreign operations into the u.s. dollar and on purchases of goods in currencies that are not the local currencies of stores where the goods are sold and on intercompany debt and interest payable between our domestic and international operations. as more fully described in note f to our consolidated financial statements, we use derivative financial instruments to hedge a portion of certain merchandise purchase commitments, primarily at our international operations, and intercompany transactions with our international operations. we enter into derivative contracts only for the purpose of hedging the underlying economic exposure. we utilize currency forward and swap contracts, designed to offset the gains or losses on the underlying exposures. the contracts are executed with banks we believe are creditworthy and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates applied to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above as well as the translation of our foreign operations into our reporting currency. as of january 28, 2012, the analysis indicated that such an adverse movement would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position but could have reduced our pre-tax income for fiscal 2012 by approximately $42 million. interest rate risk our cash equivalents, short-term investments and certain lines of credit bear variable interest rates. changes in interest rates affect interest earned and paid by us. in addition, changes in the gross amount of our borrowings and future changes in interest rates will affect our future interest expense. we periodically use 37 financial instruments to manage our cost of borrowing; however, we believe that fixed interest rates on most of our debt minimizes our exposure to changes in market conditions. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates applied to our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments as of january 28, 2012. there were no variable rate borrowings outstanding as of january 28, 2012. the analysis indicated that such an adverse movement as of that date would not have had a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. equity price risk the assets of our qualified pension plan, a large portion of which are equity securities, are subject to the risks and uncertainties of the financial markets. we invest the pension assets in a manner that attempts to minimize and control our exposure to market uncertainties. investments, in general, are exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit, and overall market volatility risks. a significant decline in the financial markets could adversely affect the value of our pension plan assets and the funded status of our pension plan, resulting in increased contributions to the plan. we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully, in connection with all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks that follow, individually or in the aggregate, are those that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements. failure to execute our opportunistic buying strategy and inventory management could adversely affect our business. while our opportunistic buying strategy and our goals of operating with lean inventory levels and frequent inventory turns are key elements of our off-price business, they subject us to risks related to the pricing, quantity, nature and timing of inventory flowing to our stores. our merchants are in the marketplace frequently, as much of our merchandise is purchased for the current or immediately upcoming season. our opportunistic buying places considerable discretion in our merchants. they react to frequently changing opportunities and trends in the market, assess the desirability and value of merchandise and generally make determinations of how and what we source as well as when we source it. if we do not obtain the right fresh, desirable merchandise at the right times, quantities and prices, it could adversely affect traffic to our stores as well as our sales and margins. we base our purchases of inventory, in part, on our sales forecasts. if our sales forecasts do not match customer demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and need to take markdowns on excess or slow-moving inventory, leading to decreased profit margins, or we may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, leading to lost sales, either of which could adversely affect our financial performance. if we are unable to generally purchase inventory at prices sufficiently below prices paid by conventional retailers to allow us to maintain our overall pricing differential to regular department and specialty stores, our ability to attract customers and sustain our margins may be adversely affected. we may not achieve this at various times or in some divisions or geographies, which could adversely affect our results or those of one of our segments. we must also properly execute our inventory management strategy of delivering the right product to the right stores at the right time. we need to appropriately allocate merchandise among our stores, timely and efficiently distribute inventory to stores, maintain an appropriate mix and level of inventory in each store, appropriately change the allocation of floor space of stores among product categories to respond to customer demand and effectively manage pricing and markdowns. there is no assurance we will be able to do so. in addition to our own execution, we may need to react to factors affecting inventory flow that are outside our control, such as extreme weather and natural disasters or other changes in conditions affecting our vendors and others in our supply chain, such as political instability, labor issues, including strikes or threats of strikes, or increasing cost of regulations. if we are not able to adjust appropriately to such factors, our merchandise distribution may be affected. failure to execute our opportunistic inventory buying and inventory management well could adversely affect our performance and our relationship with our customers. failure to continue to expand our operations successfully or to manage our substantial size and scale effectively could adversely affect our financial results. our revenue growth is dependent, among other things, on our ability to continue to expand through successfully opening new stores. successful store growth requires us to lease appropriate real estate on 10 attractive terms in each of the locations where we seek to open stores. our ability to do so depends, among other things, on availability and selection of appropriate sites in appropriate geographies; competition for sites; factors affecting costs such as real estate, construction and development costs, as well as costs and availability of capital; and variations in or changes to zoning or other land use regulations. if we cannot lease appropriate sites on attractive terms, it could limit our ability to successfully grow in various markets or adversely affect the economics of new stores in various markets. further, we may encounter difficulties in attracting customers when we enter new markets for a variety of reasons, including customers lack of familiarity with our brands or our lack of familiarity with local customer preferences or cultural differences. new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores, and new and existing stores in a market may adversely affect each other sales and profitability. further, our substantial size imposes demands on maintaining appropriate internal resources and third party providers to support our business effectively and expansion places increased demands on management and the administrative, merchandising, store operations, distribution, compliance and other organizations in our businesses, and we may not efficiently manage our business or successfully manage our growth. in addition, under our business model, some aspects of the businesses and operations of our chains in the u.s., canada and europe are conducted with relative autonomy. the large size and scale of our operations, our multiple chains in the u.s., canada and europe and the autonomy afforded to the chains increase the risk that our systems and practices will not be implemented appropriately throughout our company and that information may not be appropriately shared across our operations, which risks may increase as we continue to grow, particularly in different countries. if business information is not shared effectively, or if we are otherwise unable to manage our growth effectively, we may operate with decreased operational efficiency, may need to reduce our rate of expansion of one or more operations or otherwise curtail growth in one or more markets, which may adversely affect our success in executing our business goals and adversely impact our sales and results. failure to identify customer trends and preferences to meet customer demand could negatively impact our performance. because our success depends on our ability to meet customer demand, we work to follow customer trends and preferences on an ongoing basis and to offer inventory that meets those trends and preferences. however, identifying consumer trends and preferences and successfully meeting customer demand across our diverse merchandise categories and in the many markets in the united states, canada and europe in which we do business on a timely basis is challenging. although our business model allows us greater flexibility than many traditional retailers to meet consumer preferences and trends and to expand and contract merchandise categories in response to consumers changing tastes, we may not successfully do so, which could adversely affect our results. our future performance is dependent upon our ability to continue to expand within our existing markets and to extend our off-price model in new product lines, and geographic regions and businesses. our growth strategy is to continue to successfully expand the number of stores in our existing markets, to continue to successfully expand our existing chains to new markets and geographies and, as appropriate, to successfully develop or acquire new businesses, including our planned expansion into e-commerce, all of which entail significant risk. there are significant risks associated with both our ability to continue to successfully extend our current business and to enter new businesses, including managing the implementation of this growth effectively. if any aspect of our expansion strategy does not achieve the success we expect in whole or in part, we may be required to increase our investment, slow our planned growth or close stores or operations and our growth and financial performance could be adversely affected. if we fail to successfully implement our marketing, advertising and promotional programs, or if our competitors are more effective with their programs than we are, our revenue may be adversely affected. although we use marketing, advertising and promotional programs to attract customers to our stores through various media including television, social media, database marketing, print and direct marketing, some of our competitors expend more for their programs than we do, or use different approaches than we do, which 11 may provide them with a competitive advantage. our marketing, advertising and promotional programs may not be effective or could require increased expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. we may need to adjust our marketing, advertising and promotional programs effectively as internet-based and other digital or mobile communication channels rapidly evolve, and there is no assurance that we will successfully do so. we operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to compete effectively. the retail apparel and home fashion business is highly competitive. we compete with local, regional, national and international retailers that sell apparel, home fashions and other merchandise we sell, including in stores, through catalogues or other media or over the internet. some of our competitors are larger than we are or have more experience in selling certain product lines than we do. new competitors frequently enter the market, and existing competitors enter or increase their presence in the markets in which we operate, expand their merchandise offerings or change their pricing methods, all of which increase competition for customers. we compete on the basis of fashion, quality, price, value, merchandise selection and freshness, brand-name recognition, service, reputation and store location. our competitiveness is highly dependent on our effective execution of our off-price model of offering the customer a fresh, rapidly changing and attractive mix of merchandise delivering value. the demand for our merchandise is also influenced by our advertising, marketing and promotional activities, the name recognition and reputation of our chains and the location of and service offered in our stores. if we fail to compete effectively, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. failure to attract, train and retain quality associates in appropriate numbers, including management, buying, sales, distribution center and other personnel, and increased costs from our existing or expanding labor force, could adversely affect our performance. our performance depends on recruiting, developing, training and retaining quality sales, systems, distribution center and other associates in large numbers as well as experienced buying and management personnel. many of our associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. availability and skill of associates may differ across markets in which we do business and in new markets we enter, and our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling labor costs, including costs of retirement, health and other employee benefits, is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, changing demographics, economic conditions, health care legislation, health and other insurance costs and governmental labor and employment and employee benefits requirements. the nature of the workforce in the retail industry also subjects us to the risk of immigration law violations, which risk has increased in recent years. certain associates in our distribution centers are members of unions and therefore subject us to the risk of labor actions of various kinds as well as risks and potential expenses associated with multiemployer plans, including from potential withdrawal liability and potential insolvency of other participating employers, and other associates are members of works councils, which may subject us to additional actions or expense. in addition, any failure of third-parties that perform services on our behalf to comply with immigration, employment or other laws could damage our reputation or disrupt our ability to obtain needed labor. in the event of increasing wage rates in a market, failure to increase our wages competitively could result in a decline in the quality of our workforce, causing our customer service to suffer, while increasing our wages could cause our earnings to decrease. because of the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must provide significant internal training and development for key associates, including within our buying organization. similar to other retailers, we face challenges in securing and retaining sufficient talent in management and other key areas for many reasons, including competition in the retail industry generally and for talent in various geographic markets. if we do not continue to attract qualified individuals, train them in our business model, support their development and retain them, our performance could be adversely affected or our growth could be limited. 12 global economic conditions may adversely affect our financial performance. during the economic recession, global financial markets experienced extreme volatility, disruption and credit contraction, which adversely affected global economic conditions. renewed financial turmoil in the financial and credit markets or other changes in economic conditions could adversely affect sources of liquidity available to us or our costs of capital and could adversely affect plan asset values and investment performance, increasing our pension liabilities, expenses and funding requirements with respect to company-sponsored and multiemployer pension plans. economic conditions, both on a global level and in particular markets, including unemployment, decreased disposable income and actual and perceived wealth, energy and health care costs, interest and tax rates and policies, weakness in the housing market, volatility in capital markets, decreased credit availability, inflation and deflation, as well as political or other factors beyond our control such as threats or possibilities of war, terrorism, global or national unrest, actual or threatened epidemics, and political instability also have significant effects on consumer confidence and spending. consumer spending, in turn, affects retail sales. these conditions and factors could adversely affect discretionary consumer spending and, although we believe our flexible off-price model helps us respond, they may adversely affect our sales, cash flows and results of operations and performance. compromises of our data security could materially harm our reputation and business. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store certain personal information from individuals, such as our customers and associates, and we process customer payment card and check information. we suffered an unauthorized intrusion or intrusions (such intrusion or intrusions, collectively, the computer intrusion ) into portions of our computer system that process and store information related to customer transactions, discovered late in 2006, in which we believe customer data were stolen. we have taken steps designed to further strengthen the security of our computer system and protocols and have instituted an ongoing program with respect to data security, consistent with a consent order with the federal trade commission, to assess the ongoing effectiveness of our information security program and to maintain and enhance our program as appropriate. nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer a future data compromise, that unauthorized parties will not gain access to personal information, or that any such data compromise or access will be discovered in a timely way. we rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. further, the systems currently used for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, all of which can put payment card data at risk, are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, not by us. this is also true for check information and approval. computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our computer system and, if successful, misappropriate personal information, payment card or check information or confidential business information of our company. in addition, our associates, contractors or third parties with whom we do business or to whom we outsource business operations may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to misappropriate such information, and may purposefully or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and other developments may increase the risk of such a breach. compromise of our data security or of third parties with whom we do business, failure to prevent or mitigate the loss of personal or business information and delays in detecting any such compromise or loss could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and customers willingness to shop in our stores, violate applicable laws, regulations, orders and agreements, and subject us to additional costs and liabilities which could be material. failure to operate information systems and implement new technologies effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability. we rely extensively on various information systems, data centers and software applications to manage many aspects of our business, including to process and record transactions in our stores, to enable effective communication systems, to plan and track inventory flow, to manage logistics and to generate performance and financial reports. we are dependent on the integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems and 13 related back-up systems. our computer systems and the third party systems we rely on are subject to damage or interruption from power outages; computer and telecommunications failures; computer viruses; security breaches; cyber-attacks; catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes; acts of war or terrorism and usage errors by our associates or contractors. although we seek to maintain our systems effectively and to successfully address the risk of compromises of the integrity, security and consistent operations of our systems, we may not be successful in doing so. compromises, interruptions or shutdowns of our systems, including those managed by third parties, could lead to delays in our business operations and, if significant or extreme, affect our results of operations. we modify, update, and replace our systems and infrastructure from time to time, including adding new data centers, replacing or updating legacy programs, converting to global systems, integrating new service providers, such as for cloud computing technologies, adding additional functionality, such as for the development of our e-commerce business, and adding new systems when we acquire new businesses. we also modify and change our procedures for, and add and change vendors who assist us with, designing, implementing and maintaining our systems and infrastructure. although we believe we are diligent in selecting systems, vendors and procedures to enable us to maintain the integrity of our systems and infrastructure when we modify them, there are inherent risks associated with managing and changing systems, infrastructure and relationships and with acquisitions, including accurately capturing and maintaining data, realizing the expected benefit of the change and potentially disrupting the operation of the systems as the changes are implemented. additionally, potential issues associated with implementing technology initiatives and the time and resources required to optimize the benefits of new systems could reduce the efficiency of our operations in the short term. the efficient operation and successful growth of our business depends upon these information systems, including our ability to operate and maintain them effectively and to select and implement appropriate new technologies, systems, controls, data centers and adequate disaster recovery systems successfully. the failure of our information systems and the third party systems we rely on to perform as designed, or our failure to implement and operate them effectively, could disrupt our business or subject us to liability and thereby harm our profitability. as our business is subject to seasonal influences, a decrease in sales or margins during the second half of the year could have a disproportionately adverse affect on our operating results. our business is subject to seasonal influences; we generally realize higher levels of sales and income in the second half of the year, which includes the back-to-school and year-end holiday seasons. any decrease in sales or margins during this period could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our results of operations. adverse or unseasonable weather in the markets in which our stores operate or our distribution centers are located could adversely affect our operating results. both adverse and unseasonable weather, such as storms, severe cold or heat or unseasonable temperatures, affect customers buying patterns and willingness to shop certain categories or at all, and accordingly, can adversely affect the demand for the merchandise in our stores, particularly in apparel and seasonal merchandise . weather can also affect our ability to transport merchandise to our stores from our distribution and shipping centers or elsewhere in our supply chain. as a result, adverse or unseasonable weather in our markets could adversely affect our sales, increase markdowns and adversely affect our operating results. our results may be adversely affected by serious disruptions or catastrophic events. unforeseen public health issues, such as pandemics and epidemics, as well as natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes and other extreme weather and climate conditions, in any of our markets could disrupt our operations or the operations of one or more of our vendors or of our supply chain or could severely damage or destroy one or more of our stores or distribution facilities located in the affected areas. day-to-day operations, particularly our ability to receive products from our vendors or transport products to our stores could be adversely affected, or we could be required to close stores or distribution centers in the affected areas or in areas served by affected distribution centers for a short or extended period of time. as a result, our business could be adversely affected. 14 damage to our corporate reputation or those of our banners could adversely affect our sales and operating results. we believe that building the brand reputation of our retail banners is an important part of our marketing efforts, and we expend resources building relationships with our customers through social media and other advertising and promotional activities. our reputation is based, in part, on perceptions of subjective qualities, so incidents involving us or our merchandise, that erode trust or confidence could adversely affect our reputation and our business, particularly if the incidents result in significant adverse publicity or governmental inquiry. similarly, information posted about us, our banners and the merchandise we sell, including our private label brands, on social media platforms and similar venues, including blogs, websites, and other forums for internet-based communications that allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons, may adversely affect our reputation and brand, even if the information is inaccurate. the reputation of our company and our retail banners may be damaged by adverse events at the corporate level or by adverse events at our other banners. damage to the reputation of our company and our banners could result in declines in customer loyalty and sales, affect our vendor relationships, development opportunities and associate retention and otherwise adversely affect our business. issues with merchandise quality or safety could damage our reputation, sales and financial results. various governmental authorities in the jurisdictions where we do business regulate the quality and safety of the merchandise we sell to consumers. regulations and standards in this area, including those related to the u.s. consumer product safety improvement act of 2008, state regulations like california proposition 65, and similar legislation in other countries in which we operate, impose restrictions and requirements on the merchandise we sell in our stores and through e-commerce and change from time to time. also, new federal, state, provincial or local regulations in the u.s. and other countries that may affect our business are contemplated and enacted with some regularity. if we are unable to comply with regulatory requirements on a timely basis or at all or to adequately monitor new regulations that may apply to existing or new merchandise categories or in new geographies, significant fines or penalties could be incurred or we could have to curtail some aspects of our sales or operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we rely on our vendors to provide quality merchandise that complies with applicable product safety laws and other applicable laws, but they may not comply with their obligations to do so. although our arrangements with our vendors frequently provide for indemnification for product liabilities, the vendors may fail to honor those obligations to an extent we consider sufficient or at all. issues with the quality and safety of merchandise, particularly with food, bath and body and children products, or issues with the genuineness of merchandise, regardless of our fault, or customer concerns about such issues, could cause damage to our reputation and could result in lost sales, uninsured product liability claims or losses, merchandise recalls and increased costs, and regulatory, civil or criminal fines or penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. our expanding international operations may expose us to risks inherent in operating in new countries. we have a significant retail presence in canada and europe and have established buying offices around the world, and our goal is to continue to expand our operations into other international markets in the future. it can be costly and complex to establish, develop and maintain international operations and promote business in new international jurisdictions, which may differ significantly from the u.s. and other countries in which we currently operate. in addition to facing risks similar to our u.s. and current international operations, such as with regulations such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, we face additional risks inherent in operating in new countries, such as understanding the retail climate and trends, local customs and competitive conditions; and complying with new laws, rules and regulations; developing the appropriate infrastructure for local operations; as well as financial risks including currency exchange fluctuations and adverse tax consequences or limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds outside of the country where earned, which could have an adverse impact on our operations or profitability. complying with applicable laws and our own internal policies may require us to spend additional time and resources to implement new procedures and financial controls, conduct audits, train associates and third parties on our compliance methods or take other actions, which could adversely impact our operations. 15 we are subject to risks associated with importing merchandise from other countries. many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our vendors and, to a lesser extent, by us, in many countries outside of the country where the stores are located, particularly southeastern asia. where we are the importer of record, we may be subject to regulatory or other requirements similar to those imposed upon the manufacturer of such products. we are subject to the various risks of importing merchandise from other countries and purchasing product made in other countries, such as: potential disruptions in manufacturing, logistics and supply; changes in duties, tariffs, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise; strikes, threats of strikes and other events affecting delivery; consumer perceptions of the safety of imported merchandise; product compliance with laws and regulations of the destination country; product liability claims from customers or penalties from government agencies relating to products that are recalled, defective or otherwise noncompliant or alleged to be harmful; concerns about human rights, working conditions and other labor rights and conditions in countries where merchandise is produced, and changing labor, environmental and other laws in these countries; compliance with laws and regulations concerning ethical business practices, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act; exposure for product warranty and intellectual property issues; and economic, political or other problems in countries from or through which merchandise is imported. political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, labor conditions, transport capacity and costs, systems issues, problems in third party distribution and warehousing and other interruptions of the supply chain, compliance with laws and regulations and other factors relating to international trade and imported merchandise beyond our control could affect the availability and the price of our inventory. furthermore, although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations relating to operating in non-u.s. jurisdictions and importing merchandise, there can be no assurance that contractors, agents, vendors or other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies, which could subject us to liability and could adversely affect our operations or operating results. our results may be adversely affected by reduced availability or increases in the price of oil or other fuels, raw materials and other commodities. energy and fuel costs have fluctuated dramatically and had significant cost increases in the past, particularly the price of oil and gasoline. an increase in the price of oil increases our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and costs to purchase our products from suppliers. although we have implemented a hedging strategy designed to manage a portion of our transportation costs, that strategy may not be effective or sufficient and increases in oil and gasoline prices could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products and increase our operating costs, which could have an adverse effect on our performance. increased regulation related to environmental costs, including cap and trade or other emissions management systems could also adversely affect our costs of doing business, including utility costs, transportation and logistics. similarly, other commodity prices can fluctuate dramatically, such as the cost of cotton and synthetic fabrics, which at times have risen significantly. such increases can increase the cost of merchandise, which could adversely affect our performance through potentially reduced consumer demand or reduced margins. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may lead to lower revenues and earnings. sales made by our stores outside the united states are denominated in the currency of the country in which the store is located, and changes in currency exchange rates affect the translation of the sales and earnings of these businesses into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. because of this, movements in currency 16 exchange rates have had and are expected to continue to have a significant impact on our consolidated and segment results from time to time. changes in currency exchange rates can also increase the cost of inventory purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the local currency of the business buying the merchandise. when these changes occur suddenly, it can be difficult for us to adjust retail prices accordingly, and gross margin can be adversely affected. a significant amount of merchandise we offer for sale is made in china, and accordingly, a revaluation of the chinese currency, or increased market flexibility in the exchange rate for that currency, increasing its value relative to the u.s. dollar or currencies in which our stores are located, could be significant. additionally, we routinely enter into inventory-related hedging instruments to mitigate the impact of currency exchange rates on merchandise margins of merchandise purchases by our divisions denominated in currencies other than their local currencies. in accordance with gaap, we evaluate the fair value of these hedging instruments and make mark-to-market adjustments at the end of each accounting period. these adjustments are of a much greater magnitude when there is significant volatility in currency exchange rates and may have a significant impact on our earnings. although we implement foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in currency exchange rates, we expect that currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations from time to time. in addition, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our earnings and operating results if a counterparty to one of our hedging arrangements fails to perform. our quarterly operating results fluctuate and may fall short of prior periods, our projections or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could adversely affect our stock price. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter at points in the past, and they may continue to do so in the future. if we fail to increase our results over prior periods, to achieve our projected results or goals or to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our share price may decline, and the decrease in the stock price may be disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance. results may be affected by factors we can control, such as the execution of our off-price buying, including selection, pricing and mix of merchandise; inventory management including flow, pricing markon and markdowns; and management of our growth, but also may be affected by some factors that are not within our control, including actions of competitors, weather conditions, economic conditions, consumer confidence, seasonality, and cost increases due, for example, to government regulation and increased healthcare and benefits costs. most of our operating expenses, such as rent expense and associate salaries, do not vary directly with the amount of our sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. as a result, if sales in a particular quarter are below our expectations for that quarter, we generally are not able to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, resulting in a disproportionate effect on our net income for the quarter. we maintain a forecasting process that seeks to project sales and align expenses. if we do not control costs or appropriately adjust costs to actual results, or if actual results differ significantly from our forecast, our financial performance could be adversely affected. in addition, if we do not repurchase the number of shares we contemplated pursuant to our stock repurchase programs, our earnings per share may be adversely affected. if we engage in mergers or acquisitions or investments in new businesses, or divest, close or consolidate any of our current businesses, our business will be subject to additional risks. we may acquire new businesses (as in our recent acquisition of sierra trading post), invest in or enter into joint ventures with other businesses, develop new businesses internally and divest, close or consolidate businesses. acquisition, investment or divestiture activities may divert attention of management from operating the existing businesses, and we may not effectively evaluate target companies or investments or assess the risks, benefits and cost of buying, investing in or closing businesses or of the integration of acquired businesses, all of which can be difficult, time-consuming and dilutive. acquisitions, investments, closings and divestitures may not meet our performance and other expectations or may expose us to unexpected or greater-than-expected costs, liabilities and risks. divestitures, closings and consolidations also involve risks, such as 17 significant costs and obligations of closure, including exposure on leases, owned real estate and other contractual, employment, pension and severance obligations, and potential liabilities that may arise under law as a result of the disposition or the subsequent failure of an acquirer. failure to execute on mergers, acquisitions, investments, divestitures, closings and consolidations in a satisfactory manner could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. failure to comply with existing laws, regulations and orders or changes in existing laws and regulations could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance. we are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws, rules and regulations in the united states and other countries, any of which may change from time to time, as well as orders and assurances. these legal, regulatory and administrative requirements collectively affect multiple aspects of our business, from cost of health care and retirement benefits, workforce management, logistics, marketing, import/export, sourcing and manufacturing, data protection and others. if we fail to comply with these laws, rules, regulations and orders, we may be subject to fines or other penalties, which could materially adversely affect our operations and our financial results and condition. further, applicable accounting principles and interpretations may change from time to time, and the changes could have material effects on our reported financial results and condition. we must also comply with new and changing laws and regulations. new legislative and regulatory initiatives and reforms in jurisdictions where we do business could increase our costs of compliance or of doing business and could adversely affect our operating results, including those involving: labor and employment and employment benefits, including regarding labor unions and works councils; consumer protection and financial regulations; data protection and privacy; climate change, energy and waste; internet, including e-commerce, electronic communications and privacy; and protection of third party intellectual property rights. our results may be materially adversely affected by the outcomes of litigation, legal proceedings and other legal matters. we are involved, or may in the future become involved, in legal proceedings, regulatory reviews and audits. these may involve inquiries, investigations, law suits and other proceedings by local, provincial, state and federal governmental entities (in the united states and other countries) and private plaintiffs, including with respect to tax, escheat, whistleblower claims, employment and employee benefits including classification, employment rights, discrimination, wage and hour and retaliation, securities, disclosure, real estate, tort, consumer protection, product safety, advertising, and intellectual property. there continue to be a number of employment-related lawsuits, including class actions, in the united states, and we are subject to these types of suits. we cannot predict the results of legal and regulatory proceedings with certainty, and actual results may differ from any reserves we establish estimating the probable outcome. regardless of merit or outcome, litigation can be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and may cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations could expose us to significant defense costs, fines, penalties and liability to private parties and governmental entities for monetary recoveries and other amounts and attorneys fees and/or require us to change aspects of our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. tax matters could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our effective income tax rate and future tax liability could be adversely affected by numerous factors including the results of tax audits and examinations, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory income tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory income tax rates, changes in income tax rates, changes in transfer pricing, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, 18 changes in applicable tax legislation, regulations and treaties, exposure to additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties, and changes in accounting principles and interpretations relating to tax matters, any of which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition in future periods. significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our worldwide provision and accruals for taxes, and actual results may differ from our estimations. we are subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns and reports by federal, state, provincial and local tax authorities in the u.s. and foreign countries, and the examining authorities may challenge positions we take. we are engaged in various proceedings with such authorities and in court with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these proceedings to determine the adequacy and appropriateness of our provision for income taxes, and increase and decrease our provision as a result of these assessments. however, the developments in and actual results of proceedings or the result of rulings by or settlements with tax authorities and courts or due to changes in facts, law or legal interpretations, expiration of applicable statutes of limitations or other resolutions of tax positions could differ from the amounts we have accrued for such proceedings in either a positive or a negative manner, which could materially affect our effective income tax rate in a given financial period, the amount of taxes we are required to pay and our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to tax audits and examinations for payroll, value added, sales-based and other taxes relating to our businesses. our real estate leases generally obligate us for long periods, which subjects us to financial risks. we lease virtually all of our store locations, generally for an initial terms of ten years, with options to renew the term, and either own or lease for long periods our primary distribution centers and administrative offices. accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with leasing and owning real estate, which can adversely affect our results as, for example, was the case in the closure of various of our former operations. while we have the right to terminate some of our leases under specified conditions, including by making specified payments, we may not be able to terminate a particular lease if or when we would like to do so. if we decide to close stores, we are generally required to continue to perform obligations under the applicable leases, which generally includes, among other things, paying rent and operating expenses for the balance of the lease term, or paying to exercise rights to terminate, and the performance of any of these obligations may be expensive. when we assign leases or sublease space to third parties, we can remain liable on the lease obligations if the assignee or sublessee does not perform. in addition, when the lease term for the stores in our ongoing operations expire, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores or to relocate stores within a market on less favorable terms. we depend upon strong cash flows from our operations to supply capital to fund our operations, growth, stock repurchases and dividends and interest and debt repayment. our business depends upon our operations to continue to generate strong cash flow to supply capital to support our general operating activities, to fund our growth and our return to stockholders through our stock repurchase programs and dividends, and to pay our interest and debt repayments. our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities, to repatriate cash from our international operations in a manner that is cost effective could adversely affect our growth plans and financial performance including our earnings per share. we borrow on occasion to finance our activities and if financing were not available to us in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms when needed, it could also adversely affect our financial performance. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk tjx is exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of business, some potential market risks are discussed below: foreign currency exchange risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk on the translation of our foreign operations into the u.s. dollar and on purchases of goods in currencies that are not the local currencies of stores where the goods are sold and on intercompany debt and interest payable between our domestic and international operations. as more fully described in note e to our consolidated financial statements, we use derivative financial instruments to hedge a portion of certain merchandise purchase commitments, primarily at our international operations, and intercompany transactions with our international operations. we enter into derivative contracts only for the purpose of hedging the underlying economic exposure. we utilize currency forward and swap contracts, designed to offset the gains or losses on the underlying exposures. the contracts are executed with banks we believe are creditworthy and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates applied to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above as well as the translation of our foreign operations into our reporting currency. as of february 2, 2013, the analysis indicated that such an adverse movement would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position but could have reduced our pre-tax income for fiscal 2013 by approximately $65 million. equity price risk the assets of our qualified pension plan, a large portion of which are equity securities, are subject to the risks and uncertainties of the financial markets. we invest the pension assets in a manner that attempts to minimize and control our exposure to market uncertainties. investments, in general, are exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit, and overall market volatility risks. a significant decline in the financial markets could adversely affect the value of our pension plan assets and the funded status of our pension plan, resulting in increased contributions to the plan. we do not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully, in connection with all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks that follow, individually or in the aggregate, are those that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements. failure to execute our opportunistic buying strategy and inventory management could adversely affect our business. while opportunistic buying, operating with lean inventory levels and frequent inventory turns are key elements of our off-price business strategy, they subject us to risks related to the pricing, quantity, mix, nature and timing of inventory flowing to our stores. our merchants are in the marketplace frequently, as much of our merchandise is purchased for the current or immediately upcoming season. our opportunistic buying places considerable discretion in our merchants. they react to frequently changing opportunities and trends in the market, assess the desirability and value of merchandise and generally make determinations of how and what we source as well as when we source it. if we do not obtain the right fresh, desirable merchandise at the right times, quantities and prices, it could adversely affect traffic to our stores as well as our sales and margins. we base our purchases of inventory, in part, on our sales forecasts. if our sales forecasts do not match customer demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and need to take markdowns on excess or slow-moving inventory, leading to decreased profit margins, or we may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, leading to lost sales, either of which could adversely affect our financial performance. if we are unable to generally purchase inventory at prices sufficiently below prices paid by conventional retailers, we may not be able to maintain an overall pricing differential to regular department and specialty stores, and our ability to attract customers and sustain our margins may be adversely affected. we may not achieve this at various times or in some divisions or geographies, which could adversely affect our results or those of one of our segments. we must also properly execute our inventory management strategy of delivering the right product to the right stores at the right time. we need to appropriately allocate merchandise among our stores, timely and efficiently distribute inventory to stores, maintain an appropriate mix and level of inventory in each store, appropriately change the allocation of floor space of stores among product categories to respond to customer demand and effectively manage pricing and markdowns. there is no assurance we will be able to do so. in addition to our own execution, we may need to react to factors affecting inventory flow that are outside our control, discussed further below, such as extreme weather and natural disasters or other changes in conditions affecting our vendors and others in our supply chain, such as political instability, labor issues, including strikes or threats of strikes, or increasing cost of regulations. if we are not able to adjust appropriately to such factors, our inventory management may be affected, which could impact our performance and our relationship with our customers. failure to continue to expand our business and operations successfully or to manage our substantial size and scale effectively could adversely affect our financial results. our growth strategy includes successfully expanding our off-price model in our current markets and in new geographic regions, product lines, businesses and channels and, as appropriate, adding new businesses, whether by development, investment or acquisition. there are significant risks associated with our ability to 10 continue to successfully extend our current business and to enter new businesses, including managing the implementation of this growth effectively. if any aspect of our expansion strategy does not achieve the success we expect, in whole or in part, we may be required to increase our investment, slow our planned growth or close stores or operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. successful store growth requires us to find and lease appropriate real estate on attractive terms in each of the locations where we seek to open stores. our ability to do so depends, among other things, on availability and selection of appropriate sites in appropriate geographies; degree of competition for sites; factors affecting costs such as real estate, construction and development costs, and costs and availability of capital; and variations in or changes to zoning or other land use regulations. if we cannot lease appropriate sites on attractive terms, it could limit our ability to successfully grow in various markets or adversely affect the economics of new stores in various markets. we also may encounter difficulties in attracting customers when we enter new markets, as discussed further below. new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores and adding stores to existing markets may adversely affect stores sales and profitability. as we expand our model, we may have difficulty effectively meeting customer expectations, which may change rapidly and differ from those we anticipate. further, our substantial size imposes demands on maintaining appropriate internal resources and third party providers to support our business effectively. expansion places increased demands on management and various functions across our business, including administration, merchandising, store operations, distribution and compliance and on appropriately staffing and training personnel in these areas as we grow. in addition, under our business model, some aspects of the businesses and operations of our chains in the u.s., canada and europe are conducted with relative autonomy. the large size and scale of our operations, our multiple chains in the u.s., canada and europe and the autonomy afforded to the chains increase the risk that our systems and practices will not be implemented appropriately throughout our company and that information may not be appropriately shared across our operations, which risks may increase as we continue to grow. if business information is not shared effectively, or if we are otherwise unable to manage our growth effectively, we may operate with decreased operational efficiency, may need to reduce our rate of expansion of one or more operations or otherwise curtail growth in one or more markets, which may adversely affect our success in executing our business goals and adversely impact our sales and results. each of these risks may increase as we continue to grow, particularly as we expand into additional countries. failure to identify customer trends and preferences to meet customer demand in new or existing markets or channels could negatively impact our performance. because our success depends on our ability to meet customer demand, we work to identify customer trends and preferences on an ongoing basis and to offer inventory that meets those trends and preferences. however, doing so across our diverse merchandise categories and in the many markets in the united states, canada and europe in which we do business on a timely basis is challenging. trends and preferences in new markets may differ from what we anticipate. although our business model allows us greater flexibility than many traditional retailers to meet consumer preferences and trends and to expand and contract merchandise categories in response to consumers changing tastes, we may not successfully do so, which could adversely affect our results. customers may also have expectations about how they shop in stores or through e-commerce or more generally engage with businesses across different channels or media (through internet-based and other digital or mobile communication channels or other forms of social media), which may vary across demographics and may evolve rapidly. meeting demand effectively involves identifying the right opportunities and making the right investments at the right time and speed, among other things, and failure to do so may impact our reputation and our financial results. if we fail to successfully implement our marketing, advertising and promotional programs, or if our competitors are more effective with their programs than we are, our revenue or results of operations may be adversely affected. customer traffic and demand for our merchandise is influenced by our advertising, marketing and promotional activities, the name recognition and reputation of our chains and the location of and service offered in our stores. although we use marketing, advertising and promotional programs to attract customers to our 11 stores through various media including television, social media, database marketing, print and direct marketing, and loyalty programs, some of our competitors expend more for their programs than we do, or use different approaches than we do, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. our marketing, advertising and promotional programs may not be effective or could require increased expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. we may need to adjust our marketing, advertising and promotional programs effectively and more quickly as internet-based and other digital or mobile communication channels and other social media rapidly evolve, and we may not successfully do so. we operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to compete effectively. the retail apparel and home fashion business is highly competitive. we compete with local, regional, national and international retailers that sell apparel, home fashions and other merchandise we sell, including in stores, through catalogues or other media or over the internet. some of our competitors are larger than we are or have more experience in selling certain product lines than we do. new competitors frequently enter the market and existing competitors enter or increase their presence in the markets in which we operate, expand their merchandise offerings, add new sales channels or change their pricing methods, all of which increase competition for customers. we compete on the basis of fashion, quality, price, value; merchandise selection and freshness; brand name recognition; customer service, reputation and store location. our competitiveness is highly dependent on our effective execution of our off-price model of offering our customers a fresh, rapidly changing and attractive mix of merchandise delivering value. if we fail to compete effectively, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. failure to attract, train and retain quality associates in appropriate numbers, including key associates and management, as well as costs related to our labor force, could adversely affect our performance. our performance depends on recruiting, developing, training and retaining quality sales, systems, distribution center and other associates in large numbers as well as experienced buying and management personnel. many of our associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. availability and skill of associates may differ across markets in which we do business and in new markets we enter, and our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling labor costs, including costs of providing retirement, health and other employee benefits, is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates and minimum wage requirements, changing demographics, economic conditions, health and other insurance costs and the regulatory environment, including health care legislation, immigration law, and governmental labor and employment and employee benefits requirements. certain associates in our distribution centers are members of unions and therefore subject us to the risk of labor actions of various kinds as well as risks and potential expenses associated with multiemployer plans, including from potential withdrawal liability and potential insolvency of other participating employers. other associates are members of works councils, which may subject us to additional actions or expense. in addition, any failure of third parties that perform services on our behalf to comply with immigration, employment or other laws and regulations could damage our reputation or disrupt our ability to obtain needed labor. when wage rates or benefit levels increase in a market, failing to increase our wages or benefits competitively could result in a decline in the quality of our workforce, causing our customer service to suffer, while increasing our wages or benefits could cause our earnings to decrease. because of the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must provide significant internal training and development for key associates across the company, including within our buying organization. similar to other retailers, we face challenges in securing and retaining sufficient talent in management and other key areas for many reasons, including competition in the retail industry generally and for talent in various geographic markets. if we do not continue to attract qualified individuals, train them in our business model, support their development and retain them, our performance could be adversely affected or our growth could be limited. 12 global economic conditions may adversely affect our financial performance. global financial markets can experience extreme volatility, disruption and credit contraction, which adversely affect global economic conditions. turmoil in the financial and credit markets or other changes in economic conditions could adversely affect sources of liquidity available to us or our costs of capital and could adversely affect plan asset values and investment performance, increasing our pension liabilities, expenses and funding requirements with respect to company-sponsored and multiemployer pension plans. economic conditions, both on a global level and in particular markets, including unemployment, decreased disposable income and actual and perceived wealth, energy and health care costs, interest and tax rates and policies, weakness in the housing market, volatility in capital markets, decreased credit availability, inflation and deflation, as well as political or other factors beyond our control such as threats or possibilities of war, terrorism, global or national unrest, actual or threatened epidemics, and political instability may also have significant effects on consumer confidence and spending. consumer spending, in turn, affects retail sales. these conditions and factors could adversely affect discretionary consumer spending and, although we believe our flexible off-price model helps us react, they may adversely affect our sales, cash flows and results of operations and performance. compromises of our data security could materially harm our reputation and business. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect, store, process and transmit certain information from individuals, such as our customers and associates, including, for example, customer payment card and check information. we suffered an unauthorized intrusion or intrusions (such intrusion or intrusions, collectively, the computer intrusion ) into portions of our computer system that process and store information related to customer transactions, discovered late in 2006, in which we believe customer data were stolen. we have taken steps designed to further strengthen the security of our computer system and protocols and have instituted an ongoing program with respect to data security, consistent with a consent order with the federal trade commission, to assess the ongoing effectiveness of our information security program and to maintain and enhance our program as appropriate. nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer a future data compromise, that unauthorized parties will not gain access to the information that we collect, store, process or transmit, or that any such data compromise or access will be discovered in a timely way. we rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of personal and/or confidential information. further, the systems and processes currently used for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, all of which can put payment card data at risk, are determined and controlled by the banking and payment card industry, not by us. this is also true for check information and approval. computer hackers may, for example, attempt to penetrate our computer systems and, if successful, misappropriate customer or associate information or confidential business information of our company. in addition, an associate, contractor or third party with whom we do business or to whom we outsource business operations may fail to monitor the systems effectively, misuse the personal or confidential information to which they have access, attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to access or misappropriate such types of information or may purposefully or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. advances in computer and software technology and capabilities, new tools and other developments, including the increasing sophistication of cyber criminals generally, may increase the risk of such a breach. compromise of our data security or that of third parties with whom we do business, failure to prevent or mitigate the loss of personal or business information and delays in detecting any such compromise or loss could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and customers willingness to shop in our stores, violate applicable laws, regulations, orders and agreements, and subject us to additional costs and liabilities which could be material. failure to operate information systems and implement new technologies effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability. we rely extensively on various information systems, including data centers, hardware and software and applications to manage many aspects of our business, including to process and record transactions in our 13 stores, to enable effective communication systems, to plan and track inventory flow, to manage logistics and to generate performance and financial reports. we are dependent on the integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems and related back-up systems. our computer systems and the third-party systems we rely on are subject to damage or interruption from a number of causes, including power outages; computer and telecommunications failures; computer viruses; security breaches; cyber-attacks; catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes; acts of war or terrorism and design or usage errors by our associates or contractors. although we seek to maintain our systems effectively and to successfully address the risk of compromises of the integrity, security and consistent operations of our systems, we may not be successful in doing so. compromises, interruptions or shutdowns of our systems, including those managed by third parties, could lead to delays in our business operations and, if significant or extreme, affect our results of operations. we modify, update, and replace our systems and its infrastructure from time to time, including by adding new hardware, software and applications; maintaining, updating or replacing legacy programs; converting to global systems; integrating new service providers, and adding enhanced or new functionality, such as for cloud computing technologies and for the continued operation and development of our e-commerce businesses; and adding new systems when we acquire new businesses. we also modify and change our procedures for, and add and change vendors and internal teams who assist us with, designing, implementing and maintaining our systems. although we believe we are diligent in selecting systems, vendors and procedures to enable us to maintain the integrity of our systems when we modify them, there are inherent risks associated with modifying or replacing systems, with new or changed relationships and with changes from acquisitions, including accurately capturing and maintaining data, realizing the expected benefit of the change and managing the potential disruption of the operation of the systems and diversion to internal teams attention as the changes are implemented. potential issues associated with implementing technology initiatives and the time and resources required to optimize the benefits of new elements of our systems and its infrastructure could reduce the efficiency of our operations in the short term. in addition, any interruption in the operation of our e-commerce websites could cause us to suffer reputational harm or to lose sales if customers are unable to access our site or purchase merchandise from us during such interruption. the efficient operation and successful growth of our business depends upon our information systems, including our ability to operate and maintain them effectively, to select appropriate vendors to maintain or enhance them and to select and implement appropriate new technologies, systems, controls, hardware, software and applications and adequate disaster recovery systems successfully. the failure of our information systems and the third party systems we rely on to perform as designed, or our failure to implement and operate them effectively, could disrupt our business or subject us to liability and thereby harm our profitability. as our business is subject to seasonal influences, a decrease in sales or margins during the second half of the year could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results. our business is subject to seasonal influences; we generally realize higher levels of sales and income in the second half of the year, which includes the back-to-school and year-end holiday seasons. any decrease in sales or margins during this period could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our results of operations. adverse or unseasonable weather in the markets in which our stores operate or our distribution centers are located could adversely affect our operating results. both adverse and unseasonable weather, such as storms, severe cold or heat or unseasonable temperatures, affect customers buying patterns and willingness to shop certain categories or at all, and accordingly, can adversely affect the demand for the merchandise in our stores, particularly in apparel and seasonal merchandise . weather can also affect the ability to transport merchandise to our stores from our distribution and shipping centers or elsewhere in our supply chain efficiently or in a timely way. as a result, adverse or unseasonable weather in our markets could adversely affect our sales, increase markdowns and adversely affect our operating results. 14 our results may be adversely affected by serious disruptions or catastrophic events. unforeseen public health issues, such as pandemics and epidemics, natural or other disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes and other extreme weather and climate conditions, or fires, explosions and acts of war or terrorism, in any of our markets could disrupt our operations or the operations of one or more of our vendors or of our supply chain or could severely damage or destroy one or more of our stores or distribution facilities located in the affected areas. day-to-day operations, particularly our ability to receive products from our vendors or transport products to our stores could be adversely affected, or we could be required to close stores or distribution centers in the affected areas or in areas served by affected distribution centers for a short or extended period of time. as a result, our business could be adversely affected. damage to our corporate reputation or those of our retail banners could adversely affect our sales and operating results. we believe that building the brand reputation of our retail banners is important to our continuing success, and we expend resources building relationships with our customers through traditional and social media and other advertising and promotional activities. our reputation is based, in part, on perceptions of subjective qualities, so incidents involving us, merchandise that we carry or our industry more generally that erode trust or confidence could adversely affect our reputation and our business, particularly if the incidents result in rapid or significant adverse publicity or governmental inquiry. similarly, information about us, our retail banners and the merchandise we sell, including our licensed or owned brands, publicized through traditional or social media platforms and similar venues, including blogs, websites, and other forums for internet-based communications that allow individuals almost immediate access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons, may adversely affect our reputation and brand, even if the information is unverified or inaccurate. the reputation of our company and our retail banners may be damaged by adverse events at the corporate level or at our retail banners. damage to the reputation of our company and our banners could result in declines in customer loyalty and sales, affect our vendor relationships, development opportunities and associate retention and otherwise adversely affect our business. issues with merchandise quality or safety could damage our reputation, sales and financial results. various governmental authorities in the jurisdictions where we do business regulate the quality and safety of the merchandise we sell to consumers. regulations and standards in this area, including those related to the u.s. consumer product safety improvement act of 2008, state regulations like california proposition 65, and similar legislation in other countries in which we operate, impose restrictions and requirements on the merchandise we sell in our stores and through e-commerce. these regulations change from time to time and new federal, state, provincial or local regulations in the u.s. and other countries that may affect our business are contemplated and enacted with some regularity. if we are unable to comply with regulatory requirements on a timely basis or at all, or to adequately monitor new regulations that may apply to existing or new merchandise categories or in new geographies, significant fines or penalties could be incurred or we could have to curtail some aspects of our sales or operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we rely on our vendors to provide quality merchandise that complies with applicable product safety laws and other applicable laws, but they may not comply with their obligations to do so. although our arrangements with our vendors frequently provide for indemnification for product liabilities, the vendors may fail to honor those obligations to an extent we consider sufficient or at all. issues with the quality and safety of merchandise, particularly with food, bath and body and children products, and issues with the genuineness of merchandise, or customer concerns about such issues, regardless of our fault, could cause damage to our reputation and could result in lost sales, uninsured product liability claims or losses, merchandise recalls and increased costs, and regulatory, civil or criminal fines or penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. our expanding international operations may expose us to risks inherent in operating in new countries. we have a significant retail presence in canada and countries in europe and have established buying offices around the world, and our goal is to continue to expand our operations into other international markets in the future (such as continued expansion in europe). it can be costly and complex to establish, develop and maintain 15 international operations and promote business in new international jurisdictions, which may differ significantly from the u.s. and other countries in which we currently operate. in addition to facing risks similar to our u.s. and current international operations, such as with regulations such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, we face additional risks inherent in operating in new countries, such as understanding the retail climate and trends, local customs and competitive conditions; and complying with relevant laws, rules and regulations; developing the appropriate infrastructure for local operations; as well as financial risks including currency exchange fluctuations and adverse tax consequences or limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds outside of the country where earned, which could have an adverse impact on our operations, profitability or liquidity. complying with applicable laws and our own internal policies may require us to spend additional time and resources to implement new procedures and financial controls, conduct audits, train associates and third parties on our compliance methods or take other actions, which could adversely impact our operations. we are subject to risks associated with importing merchandise from other countries. many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our vendors and, to a lesser extent, by us, in many countries outside of the country where the stores are located, particularly southeastern asia. where we are the importer of record, we may be subject to regulatory or other requirements similar to those imposed upon the manufacturer of such products. we are subject to the various risks of importing merchandise from other countries and purchasing product made in other countries, such as: potential disruptions in manufacturing, logistics and supply; changes in duties, tariffs, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise; strikes, threats of strikes and other events affecting delivery; consumer perceptions of the safety of imported merchandise; product compliance with laws and regulations of the destination country; product liability claims from customers or penalties from government agencies relating to products that are recalled, defective or otherwise noncompliant or alleged to be harmful; concerns about human rights, working conditions and other labor rights and conditions in countries where merchandise is produced or about transparent sourcing and supply chains; compliance with laws and regulations including changing labor, environmental and other laws in those countries and those concerning ethical business practices, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act; exposure for product warranty and intellectual property issues; and economic, political or other problems in countries from or through which merchandise is imported. political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, labor conditions, transport capacity and costs, systems issues, problems in third-party distribution and warehousing and other interruptions of the supply chain, compliance with laws and regulations and other factors relating to international trade and imported merchandise beyond our control could affect the availability and the price of our inventory. furthermore, although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations relating to operating in non-u.s. jurisdictions and importing merchandise, there can be no assurance that contractors, agents, vendors or other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies, which could subject us to liability and could adversely affect our operations or operating results. our results may be adversely affected by reduced availability or increases in the price of oil or other fuels, raw materials and other commodities. energy and fuel costs have fluctuated dramatically and had significant cost increases in the past, particularly the price of oil and gasoline. an increase in the price of oil increases our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and costs to purchase our products from suppliers. although we implement a 16 hedging strategy designed to manage a portion of our transportation costs, that strategy may not be effective or sufficient and increases in oil and gasoline prices could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products and increase our operating costs, which could have an adverse effect on our performance. increased regulation related to environmental costs, including cap and trade or other emissions management systems could also adversely affect our costs of doing business, including utility costs, transportation and logistics. similarly, other commodity prices can fluctuate dramatically, such as the cost of cotton and synthetic fabrics, which at times have risen significantly. such increases can increase the cost of merchandise, which could adversely affect our performance through potentially reduced consumer demand or reduced margins. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may lead to lower revenues and earnings. sales made by our stores outside the united states are denominated in the currency of the country in which the store is located, and changes in currency exchange rates affect the translation of the sales and earnings of these businesses into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. because of this, movements in currency exchange rates have had and are expected to continue to have a significant impact on our consolidated and segment results from time to time. changes in currency exchange rates can also increase the cost of inventory purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the local currency of the business buying the merchandise. when these changes occur suddenly, it can be difficult for us to adjust retail prices accordingly, and gross margin can be adversely affected. a significant amount of merchandise we offer for sale is made in china, and accordingly, a revaluation of the chinese currency, or increased market flexibility in the exchange rate for that currency, increasing its value relative to the u.s. dollar or currencies in which our stores are located, could be significant. additionally, we routinely enter into inventory-related derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of currency exchange rates on merchandise margins of merchandise purchases by our divisions denominated in currencies other than their local currencies. in accordance with gaap, we evaluate the fair value of these derivative instruments and make mark-to-market adjustments at the end of each accounting period. these adjustments are of a much greater magnitude when there is significant volatility in currency exchange rates and may have a significant impact on our earnings. although we implement foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in currency exchange rates, we expect that currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations from time to time. in addition, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our earnings and operating results if a counterparty to one of our hedging arrangements fails to perform. our quarterly operating results fluctuate and may fall short of prior periods, our projections or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could adversely affect our stock price. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter at points in the past, and they may continue to do so in the future. if we fail to increase our results over prior periods, to achieve our projected results or goals or to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our share price may decline, and the decrease in the stock price may be disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance. results may be affected by various factors, including those described in these risk factors. most of our operating expenses, such as rent expense and associate salaries, do not vary directly with the amount of our sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. as a result, if sales in a particular quarter are below our expectations for that quarter, we generally are not able to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, resulting in a disproportionate effect on our net income for the quarter. we maintain a forecasting process that seeks to project sales and align expenses. if we do not control costs or appropriately adjust costs to actual results, or if actual results differ significantly from our forecast, our financial performance could be adversely affected. in addition, if we do not repurchase the number of shares we contemplated pursuant to our stock repurchase programs, our earnings per share may be adversely affected. 17 if we engage in mergers or acquisitions or investments in new businesses, or divest, close or consolidate any of our current businesses, our business will be subject to additional risks. we may acquire new businesses, invest in or enter into joint ventures with other businesses, develop new businesses internally and divest, close or consolidate businesses. acquisition, investment or divestiture activities may divert attention of management from operating the existing businesses, and we may not effectively evaluate target companies or investments or assess the risks, benefits and cost of buying, investing in or closing businesses or of the integration of acquired businesses, all of which can be difficult, time-consuming and dilutive. acquisitions and investments may not meet our performance and other expectations and acquisition, investments, closings and divestitures may expose us to unexpected or greater-than-expected costs, liabilities and risks. divestitures, closings and consolidations also involve risks, such as significant costs and obligations of closure, including exposure on leases, owned real estate and other contractual, employment, pension and severance obligations, and potential liabilities that may arise under law as a result of the disposition or the subsequent failure of an acquirer. failure to execute on mergers, acquisitions, investments, divestitures, closings and consolidations in a satisfactory manner could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. failure to comply with existing laws, regulations and orders or changes in existing laws and regulations could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance. we are subject to federal, state, provincial, regional and local laws, rules and regulations in the united states and other countries, any of which may change from time to time, as well as orders and assurances. these legal, regulatory and administrative requirements collectively affect multiple aspects of our business, from cost of health care and retirement benefits, workforce management, logistics, marketing, import/export, sourcing and manufacturing, data protection and others. if we fail to comply with these laws, rules, regulations and orders, we may be subject to fines or other costs or penalties, which could materially adversely affect our operations and our financial results and condition. further, applicable accounting principles and interpretations may change from time to time, and the changes could have material effects on our reported financial results and condition. we must also comply with new and changing laws and regulations, new regulatory initiatives, evolving interpretation of existing laws by judicial and regulatory authorities, and reforms in jurisdictions where we do business. these changes could increase our costs of compliance or of doing business and could adversely affect our operating results including those involving: labor and employment benefits, including regarding labor unions and works councils; health and welfare and financial regulations; consumer protection and product safety; data protection and privacy; climate change, supply chain, energy and waste; internet regulations, including e-commerce, electronic communications and privacy; and protection of third party intellectual property rights. our results may be materially adversely affected by the outcomes of litigation, legal proceedings and other legal matters. we are involved, or may in the future become involved, in legal proceedings, regulatory reviews, audits or other legal matters. these may involve inquiries, investigations, lawsuits and other proceedings by local, provincial, state and federal governmental entities (in the united states and other countries) and private plaintiffs, including with respect to tax, escheat, whistleblower claims, employment and employee benefits including classification, employment rights, discrimination, wage and hour and retaliation, securities, disclosure, real estate, tort, consumer protection, privacy, product safety, advertising, and intellectual property. there continue to be a number of employment-related lawsuits, including putative class actions, in the united states, and we 18 are subject to these types of suits. we cannot predict the results of legal and regulatory proceedings with certainty, and actual results may differ from any reserves we establish estimating the probable outcome. regardless of merit or outcome, litigation can be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and may cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations could expose us to significant defense costs, fines, penalties and liability to private parties and governmental entities for monetary recoveries and other amounts and attorneys fees and/or require us to change aspects of our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. tax matters could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our effective income tax rate and future tax liability could be adversely affected by numerous factors including the results of tax audits and examinations, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory income tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory income tax rates, changes in income tax rates, changes in transfer pricing, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in applicable tax legislation, regulations and treaties, exposure to additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties, and changes in accounting principles and interpretations relating to tax matters, any of which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition in future periods. significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our worldwide provision and accruals for taxes, and actual results may differ from our estimations. we are subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns and reports by federal, state, provincial and local tax authorities in the u.s. and foreign countries, and the examining authorities may challenge positions we take. we are engaged in various proceedings, which are at various stages, with such authorities with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these proceedings to determine the adequacy and appropriateness of our provision for income taxes, and increase and decrease our provision as a result of these assessments. however, the developments in and actual results of proceedings or the result of rulings by or settlements with tax authorities and courts or due to changes in facts, law or legal interpretations, expiration of applicable statutes of limitations or other resolutions of tax positions could differ from the amounts we have accrued for such proceedings in either a positive or a negative manner, which could materially affect our effective income tax rate in a given financial period, the amount of taxes we are required to pay and our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to tax audits and examinations for payroll, value added, sales-based and other taxes relating to our businesses. our real estate leases generally obligate us for long periods, which subjects us to financial risks. we lease virtually all of our store locations, generally for an initial term of ten years, with options to renew the term, and either own or lease for long periods our primary distribution centers and administrative offices. accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with leasing and owning real estate, which can adversely affect our results as, for example, was the case in the closure of various of our former operations. while we have the right to terminate some of our leases under specified conditions, including by making specified payments, we may not be able to terminate a particular lease if or when we would like to do so. if we decide to close stores, we are generally required to continue to perform obligations under the applicable leases, which generally includes, among other things, paying rent and operating expenses for the balance of the lease term, or paying to exercise rights to terminate, and the performance of any of these obligations may be expensive. when we assign leases or sublease space to third parties, we can remain liable on the lease obligations if the assignee or sublessee does not perform. in addition, when the lease term for the stores in our ongoing operations expire, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores or to relocate stores within a market on less favorable terms. we depend upon strong cash flows from our operations to supply capital to fund our operations, growth, stock repurchases and dividends and interest and debt repayment. our business depends upon our operations to continue to generate strong cash flow to supply capital to support our general operating activities, to fund our growth and our return of cash to stockholders through our 19 stock repurchase programs and dividends, and to pay our interest and debt repayments. our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities or to repatriate cash from our international operations in a manner that is cost effective could adversely affect our growth plans and financial performance including our earnings per share. we borrow on occasion to finance our activities and if financing were not available to us in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms when needed, it could also adversely affect our financial performance. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk tjx is exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of business. some potential market risks are discussed below: foreign currency exchange risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk on the translation of our foreign operations into the u.s. dollar and on purchases of goods in currencies that are not the local currencies of stores where the goods are sold and on intercompany debt and interest payable between and among our domestic and international operations. as more fully described in note f to our consolidated financial statements, we use derivative financial instruments to hedge a portion of certain merchandise purchase commitments, primarily at our international operations, and a portion of our intercompany transactions with and within our international operations. we enter into derivative contracts only for the purpose of hedging the underlying economic exposure. we utilize currency forward and swap contracts, designed to offset the gains or losses on the underlying exposures. the contracts are executed with banks we believe are creditworthy and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates applied to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above as well as the translation of our foreign operations into our reporting currency. as of february 1, 2014, the analysis indicated that such an adverse movement would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position but could have reduced our pre-tax income for fiscal 2014 by approximately $68 million. 37 equity price and other market risk the assets of our funded qualified pension plan, a large portion of which are equity securities, are subject to the risks and uncertainties of the financial markets. we invest the pension assets (described further in note j to the consolidated financial statements) in a manner that attempts to minimize and control our exposure to market uncertainties. investments, in general, are exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit, and overall market volatility risks. a significant decline in the financial markets could adversely affect the value of our pension plan assets and the funded status of our pension plan, which could result in increased required contributions to the plan or increase other plan-related liabilities. our pension plan investment policy prohibits the use of derivatives for speculative purposes.risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully, in connection with all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks that follow, individually or in the aggregate, are those that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements. failure to execute our opportunistic buying strategy and inventory management could adversely affect our business. while opportunistic buying, operating with lean inventory levels and frequent inventory turns are key elements of our off-price business strategy, they subject us to risks related to the pricing, quantity, mix, nature and timing of inventory flowing to our stores. our merchants are in the marketplace frequently, as much of our merchandise is purchased for the current or immediately upcoming season, and our opportunistic buying places considerable discretion with them. our business model expects them to react to frequently changing opportunities and trends in the market, assess the desirability and value of merchandise and generally make determinations of how and what we source as well as when we source it. if we do not obtain the right fresh, desirable merchandise at the right times, quantities and prices, it could adversely affect customer traffic as well as our sales and margins. we base our purchases of inventory, in part, on our sales forecasts. if our sales forecasts do not match customer demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and need to take markdowns on excess or slow-moving inventory, leading to decreased profit margins, or we may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, leading to lost sales, either of which could adversely affect our financial performance. if we are unable to generally purchase inventory at prices sufficiently below prices paid by conventional retailers, we may not be able to maintain an overall pricing differential to regular department and specialty stores, and our ability to attract customers and sustain our margins may be adversely affected. we may not achieve this at various times or in some divisions or geographies, which could adversely affect our results. we must also properly execute our inventory management strategy of delivering the right product to the right stores at the right time. we need to appropriately allocate merchandise among our stores, timely and efficiently distribute inventory to stores, maintain an appropriate mix and level of inventory in each store, appropriately change the allocation of floor space of stores among product categories to respond to customer demand and effectively manage pricing and markdowns. if we are not able to do so, our ability to attract and retain customers and our results could be adversely affected. in addition to our own execution, we may need to react to factors affecting inventory flow that are outside our control, discussed further below, such as adverse weather and natural disasters or other changes in conditions affecting our vendors and others in our supply chain, such as political instability, labor issues, including strikes or threats of strikes, or increasing cost of regulations. if we are not able to adjust appropriately to such factors, our inventory management may be affected, which could impact our performance and our relationship with our customers. failure to continue to expand our business and operations successfully or to manage our substantial size and scale effectively could adversely affect our financial results. our growth strategy includes successfully expanding our off-price model within our current markets and into new geographic regions, product lines, businesses and channels and, as appropriate, adding new businesses, whether by 10 development, investment or acquisition. there are significant risks associated with our ability to continue to successfully extend our current business and to enter new businesses, including managing the implementation of this growth effectively. if any aspect of our expansion strategy does not achieve the success we expect, in whole or in part, we may be required to increase our investment, slow our planned growth or close stores or operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. for example, successful store growth requires us to find and lease appropriate real estate on attractive terms in each of the locations where we seek to open stores. our ability to do so depends, among other things, on availability and selection of appropriate sites in appropriate geographies; degree of competition for sites; factors affecting costs such as real estate, construction and development costs and costs and availability of capital; and variations in or changes to zoning or other land use regulations. if we cannot lease appropriate sites on attractive terms, it could limit our ability to successfully grow in various markets or adversely affect the economics of new stores in various markets. if and when we enter new markets, we also may encounter difficulties in attracting customers, as discussed further below in the risk factor regarding customer trends and preferences. new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores and adding stores to existing markets may adversely affect our sales and profitability. further, our substantial size imposes demands on maintaining appropriate internal resources and third party providers to support our business effectively. these demands may increase as we grow our business, adding pressure to management and various functions across our business, including administration, merchandising, store operations, distribution and compliance and on appropriately staffing and training personnel in these areas as we grow. the large size and scale of our operations, our multiple chains in the u.s., canada and europe and the autonomy afforded to the chains in some aspects of the business increase the risk that our systems and practices will not be implemented appropriately throughout our company and that information may not be appropriately shared across our operations, which risks may increase as we continue to grow, particularly as we expand into additional countries. if business information is not shared effectively, or if we are otherwise unable to manage our size or growth effectively, we may operate with decreased operational efficiency, may need to reduce our rate of expansion of one or more operations or otherwise curtail growth in one or more markets, which may adversely affect our success in executing our business goals and adversely impact our sales and results. failure to identify customer trends and preferences to meet customer demand in new or existing markets or channels could negatively impact our performance. because our success depends on our ability to meet customer demand, we work to identify customer trends and preferences on an ongoing basis and to offer inventory that meets those trends and preferences. however, doing so across our diverse merchandise categories and in the many markets in the u.s., canada and europe in which we do business on a timely basis is challenging. trends and preferences in new markets may differ from what we anticipate. although our business model allows us greater flexibility than many traditional retailers to meet consumer preferences and trends and to expand and contract merchandise categories in response to consumers changing tastes, we may not successfully do so, which could add difficulty in attracting new customers, retaining existing customers, encouraging frequent visits and adversely affect our results. customers may also have expectations about how they shop in stores or through e-commerce or more generally engage with businesses across different channels or media (through internet-based and other digital or mobile channels or particular forms of social media), which may vary across demographics and may evolve rapidly. meeting demand effectively involves identifying the right opportunities and making the right investments at the right time and with the right speed, among other things, and failure to do so may impact our reputation and our financial results. if we fail to successfully implement our marketing, advertising and promotional programs, or if our competitors are more effective with their programs than we are, our revenue or results of operations may be adversely affected. customer traffic and demand for our merchandise is influenced by our advertising, marketing and promotional activities, the name recognition and reputation of our chains and the location of and service offered in our stores. although we use marketing, advertising and promotional programs to attract customers to our 11 stores through various media including television, social media, database marketing, print and direct marketing, and through our loyalty programs, some of our competitors expend more for their programs than we do, or use different approaches than we do, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. our programs may not be effective or could require increased expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. we may need to adjust these programs more quickly or have more difficulty making them effective as internet-based and other digital or mobile communication channels and other social media rapidly evolve, and we may not successfully do so. we operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to compete effectively. the retail apparel and home fashion business is highly competitive. we compete with local, regional, national and international retailers that sell apparel, home fashions and other merchandise we sell, including in stores, through catalogues or other media or over the internet. some of our competitors are larger than we are or have more experience in selling certain product lines than we do. new competitors frequently enter the market and existing competitors enter or increase their presence in the markets in which we operate, expand their merchandise offerings, add new sales channels or change their pricing methods, all of which increase competition for customers. we compete on the basis of fashion, quality, price, value; merchandise selection and freshness; brand name recognition; customer service, reputation and store location. our competitiveness is highly dependent on our effective execution of our off-price model of offering our customers a fresh, rapidly changing and attractive mix of merchandise delivering value. if we fail to compete effectively, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. failure to attract, train and retain quality associates in appropriate numbers, including key associates and management, could adversely affect our performance. our performance depends on recruiting, developing, training and retaining quality sales, systems, distribution center and other associates in large numbers as well as experienced buying and management personnel. many of our associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. availability and skill of associates may differ across markets in which we do business and in new markets we enter, and we need to manage our labor needs effectively. we also need to effectively control labor costs (discussed further below in the risk factor regarding labor costs). in addition, because of the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must provide significant internal training and development for key associates across the company, including within our buying organization. similar to other retailers, we face challenges in securing and retaining sufficient talent in management and other key areas for many reasons, including competition in the retail industry generally and for talent in various geographic markets. if we do not continue to attract qualified individuals, train them in our business model, support their development and retain them, our performance could be adversely affected or our growth could be limited. labor costs, including pension and healthcare costs, and other challenges from our large workforce may adversely affect our results and profitability. we have a large workforce, and our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs, including costs of providing retirement, health and other employee benefits, is subject to various factors such as unemployment levels; prevailing wage rates and minimum wage requirements; participant benefit levels; changing demographics; economic conditions; interest rate changes; economic, demographic and other actuarial assumptions; health and other insurance costs and the regulatory environment, including health care legislation, immigration law, and governmental labor and employment and employee benefits programs and requirements. certain associates in our distribution centers are members of unions and therefore subject us to the risk of labor actions of various kinds as well as risks and potential expenses associated with multiemployer plans, including from potential withdrawal liability and potential insolvency of other participating employers. other associates are members of works councils, which may subject us to additional actions or expense. in addition, any failure of third parties that perform services on our behalf to comply with immigration, employment or other laws and regulations could damage our reputation or disrupt our ability to obtain needed labor. when wage rates or benefit levels increase in a market, increasing our wages or benefits may cause our earnings to decrease, while failing to increase our wages or benefits competitively or reducing our wages or benefits, could result in a 12 decline in our ability to attract or retain associates or in the quality of our workforce, causing our customer service or performance to suffer, which could impact our results. economic conditions, on a global level or in particular markets, may adversely affect our financial performance. global financial markets can experience extreme volatility, disruption and credit contraction, which adversely affect global economic conditions. turmoil in the financial and credit markets or other changes in economic conditions could adversely affect sources of liquidity available to us or our costs of capital and could adversely affect plan asset values and investment performance, and increase our pension liabilities, expenses and funding requirements with respect to company-sponsored and multiemployer pension plans. economic conditions, both on a global level and in particular markets, including unemployment, decreased disposable income and actual and perceived wealth, energy and health care costs, interest and tax rates and policies, weakness in the housing market, volatility in capital markets, decreased credit availability, inflation and deflation, as well as political or other factors beyond our control such as threats or possibilities of war, terrorism, global or national unrest, actual or threatened epidemics, and political instability may also have significant effects on consumer confidence and spending. consumer spending, in turn, affects retail sales. these conditions and factors could adversely affect discretionary consumer spending and, although we believe our flexible off-price model helps us react, they may adversely affect our sales, cash flows and results of operations and performance. compromises of our data security could materially harm our reputation and business. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect, store, process and transmit certain information from individuals, such as our customers and associates, including, for example, customer payment card and check information. we rely in part on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of personal and/or confidential information. as with many other companies, particularly in the retail industry, we may be subject to attempts to compromise our data security. computer hackers may, for example, attempt to penetrate our computer systems or those of the third parties with whom we work or to whom we outsource business operations and, if successful, misappropriate customer or associate information or confidential business information of our company. we suffered an unauthorized intrusion or intrusions into portions of our computer system that process and store information related to customer transactions, discovered late in 2006, in which we believe customer data were stolen. we have taken steps designed to further strengthen the security of our computer system and protocols and have instituted an ongoing program with respect to data security, consistent with a consent order with the federal trade commission, to assess the ongoing effectiveness of our information security program and to maintain and enhance our program as appropriate. nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer a future data compromise, that unauthorized parties will not gain access to the information that we collect, store, process or transmit, or that any such data compromise or access will be discovered in a timely way. in addition, an associate, contractor or third party with whom we do business or to whom we outsource business operations may fail to monitor the systems effectively, or one of those parties may misuse the personal or confidential information to which they have access, may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to access or misappropriate such types of information or may purposefully or, through error, inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. advances in computer and software technology and capabilities, rapid changes in the sources, methods and targets of cyber-attacks and other developments, including the increasing sophistication of cyber criminals generally, may increase the risk of such a breach. compromise of our data security or that of third parties with whom we do business or to whom we outsource business operations, including through cyber-attacks or other external or internal methods, failure to prevent or mitigate the loss of personal or business information and delays in detecting any such compromise or loss could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and customers willingness to shop in our stores, impact our ability to attract and retain customers, violate applicable laws, regulations, orders and agreements, and subject us to additional costs and liabilities which could be material. 13 failure to operate information systems and implement new technologies effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability. we rely extensively on various information systems, including data centers, hardware and software and applications to manage many aspects of our business, including to process and record transactions in our stores, to enable effective communication systems, to plan and track inventory flow, to manage logistics and to generate performance and financial reports. we are dependent on the integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems and related back-up systems. supporting these systems requires a number of resources, including effective and qualified internal teams. as we grow and as our systems evolve, we must continue to hire, train, manage and retain these teams in an effective way. our computer systems and the third-party systems we rely on are also subject to damage or interruption from a number of causes, including power outages; computer and telecommunications failures; computer viruses or malware; security breaches; cyber-attacks; catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes; acts of war or terrorism and design or usage errors by our associates or contractors. although we seek to maintain our systems effectively, manage our team of internal and third party resources effectively and successfully address the risk of compromises of the integrity, security and consistent operations of our systems, we may not be successful in doing so. compromises, interruptions or shutdowns of our systems, including those managed by third parties, whether intentional or inadvertent, could lead to delays in our business operations and, if significant or extreme, affect our results of operations. we modify, update, and replace our systems and infrastructure from time to time, including by adding new hardware, software and applications; maintaining, updating or replacing legacy programs; converting to global systems; integrating new service providers, and adding enhanced or new functionality, such as for cloud computing technologies and for the continued operation and development of our e-commerce businesses; and adding new systems when we acquire new businesses. we also modify and change our procedures for, and add and change vendors and internal teams who assist us with designing, implementing and maintaining our systems. although we believe we are diligent in selecting systems and vendors and implementing procedures to enable us to maintain the integrity of our systems when we modify them, there are inherent risks associated with modifying or replacing systems, with new or changed relationships and with changes from acquisitions, including accurately capturing and maintaining data, realizing the expected benefit of the change and managing the potential disruption of the operation of the systems and diversion to internal teams attention as the changes are implemented. potential issues associated with implementing technology initiatives and the time and resources required to optimize the benefits of new elements of our systems and its infrastructure could reduce the efficiency of our operations in the short term. in addition, any interruption in the operation of our websites, particularly our e-commerce sites, could cause us to suffer reputational harm or to lose sales if customers are unable to access our site or purchase merchandise from us during such interruption. the efficient operation and successful growth of our business depends upon our information systems, including our ability to operate and maintain them effectively, to select appropriate internal teams and vendors to maintain or enhance them and to select and implement appropriate new technologies, systems, controls, hardware, software and applications and adequate disaster recovery systems successfully. the failure of our information systems and the third party systems we rely on to perform as designed, or our failure to implement and operate them effectively, could disrupt our business or subject us to liability and thereby harm our profitability. adverse or unseasonable weather in the markets in which our stores operate or our distribution centers are located could adversely affect our operating results. both adverse and unseasonable weather, such as storms, severe cold or heat or unseasonable temperatures, affect customers buying patterns and willingness to shop certain categories or at all, and accordingly, can adversely affect the demand for the merchandise in our stores, particularly in apparel and seasonal merchandise. weather can also affect the ability to transport merchandise to our stores from our distribution and shipping centers or elsewhere in our supply chain efficiently or in a timely way. as a result, adverse or unseasonable weather in our markets could adversely affect our sales, increase markdowns and adversely affect our operating results. 14 our results may be adversely affected by serious disruptions or catastrophic events. unforeseen public health issues, such as pandemics and epidemics, natural or other disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes and other extreme weather and climate conditions, or fires, explosions and acts of war or terrorism, in any of our markets could disrupt our operations or the operations of one or more of our vendors or of our supply chain or could severely damage or destroy one or more of our stores or distribution facilities located in the affected areas. day-to-day operations, particularly our ability to receive products from our vendors or transport products to our stores could be adversely affected, or we could be required to close stores or distribution centers in the affected areas or in areas served by affected distribution centers for a short or extended period of time. as a result, our business could be adversely affected. as our business is subject to seasonal influences, a decrease in sales or margins, a severe disruption or other significant event that impacts the business could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results if it occurs during the second half of the year. our business is subject to seasonal influences; we generally realize higher levels of sales and income in the second half of the year, which includes the back-to-school and year-end holiday seasons. any decrease in sales or margins or any significant adverse event during this period could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our results of operations. damage to our corporate reputation or those of our retail banners could adversely affect our sales and operating results. we believe that building the brand reputation of our retail banners is important to our continuing success, and we work to build relationships with our customers through traditional and social media and other advertising and promotional activities. these relationships and our reputation is based, in part, on perceptions of subjective qualities, so incidents involving us, merchandise that we carry or our industry more generally that erode trust or confidence could adversely affect our reputation and our business, particularly if the incidents result in rapid or significant adverse publicity or governmental inquiry. similarly, information about us, our retail banners and the merchandise we sell, including our licensed or owned brands, publicized through traditional or social media platforms and similar venues, including blogs, websites, and other forums for internet-based communications that allow individuals almost immediate access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons, may adversely affect our reputation and brand, even if the information is unverified or inaccurate. the reputation of our company and our retail banners may be damaged by adverse events at the corporate level or at our retail banners. damage to the reputation of our company and our banners could result in declines in customer loyalty and sales, affect our vendor relationships, development opportunities and associate retention and otherwise adversely affect our business. issues with merchandise quality or safety could damage our reputation, sales and financial results. various governmental authorities in the jurisdictions where we do business regulate the quality and safety of the merchandise we sell to consumers. regulations and standards in this area, including those related to the u.s. consumer product safety improvement act of 2008, state regulations like california proposition 65, and similar legislation in other countries in which we operate, impose restrictions and requirements on the merchandise we sell in our stores and through e-commerce. these regulations change from time to time and new federal, state, provincial or local regulations in the u.s. and other countries that may affect our business are contemplated and enacted with some regularity. if we or our merchandise vendors are unable to comply with regulatory requirements on a timely basis or at all, or to adequately monitor new regulations that may apply to existing or new merchandise categories or in new geographies, significant fines or penalties could be incurred or we could have to curtail some aspects of our sales or operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we rely on our vendors to provide quality merchandise that complies with applicable product safety laws and other applicable laws, but they may not comply with their obligations to do so. although our arrangements with our vendors frequently provide for indemnification for product liabilities, the vendors may fail to honor those obligations to an extent we consider sufficient or at all. issues with the quality and safety of merchandise, particularly with food, bath and body and children products, and issues with the genuineness of 15 merchandise, or customer concerns about such issues, regardless of our fault, could cause damage to our reputation and could result in lost sales, uninsured product liability claims or losses, merchandise recalls and increased costs, and regulatory, civil or criminal fines or penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. our expanding international operations may expose us to risks inherent in operating in new countries. we have a significant retail presence in canada and in countries in europe and have established buying offices around the world, and our goal is to continue to expand our operations into international markets in the future (such as continued expansion in europe). it can be costly and complex to establish, develop and maintain international operations and promote business in new international jurisdictions, which may differ significantly from the u.s. and other countries in which we currently operate. in addition to facing risks similar to our u.s. and current international operations, such as with regulations such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, there are additional risks inherent in opening operations in new countries, such as understanding the retail climate and trends, local customs and competitive conditions; complying with relevant laws, rules and regulations; and developing the appropriate infrastructure for local operations. there are also financial risks associated with international operations, including currency exchange fluctuations and adverse tax consequences or limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds outside of the country where earned, which could have an adverse impact on our operations, profitability or liquidity. complying with applicable laws and our own internal policies may require us to spend additional time and resources to implement new procedures and financial controls, conduct audits, train associates and third parties on our compliance methods or take other actions, which could adversely impact our operations. we are subject to risks associated with importing merchandise from other countries. many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our vendors and, to a lesser extent, by us, in many countries outside of the country where the stores are located, particularly southeastern asia. where we are the importer of record, we may be subject to regulatory or other requirements similar to those imposed upon the manufacturer of such products. we are subject to the various risks of importing merchandise from other countries and purchasing product made in other countries, such as: potential disruptions in manufacturing, logistics and supply; changes in duties, tariffs, trade restrictions, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise; transport capacity and costs; information technology challenges; problems in third-party distribution and warehousing and other interruptions of the supply chain; strikes, threats of strikes and other events affecting delivery; consumer perceptions of the safety of imported merchandise; product and international trade compliance with laws and regulations of the destination country; product liability claims from customers or penalties from government agencies relating to products that are recalled, defective or otherwise noncompliant or alleged to be harmful; concerns about human rights, working conditions and other labor rights and conditions in countries where merchandise is produced or about transparent sourcing and supply chains; compliance with laws and regulations including changing labor, environmental and other laws in those countries and those concerning ethical business practices, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act; exposure for product warranty and intellectual property issues; currency exchange rates, financial or economic instability; and political or other issues in countries from or through which merchandise is imported. 16 these and other factors relating to international trade and imported merchandise beyond our control could affect the availability and the price of our inventory. furthermore, although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations relating to operating in non-u.s. jurisdictions and importing merchandise, there can be no assurance that contractors, agents, vendors or other third parties with whom we do business or to whom we outsource business operations will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies, which could subject us to liability and could adversely affect our reputation, operations or operating results. our results may be adversely affected by reduced availability or increases in the price of oil or other fuels, raw materials and other commodities. energy and fuel costs have fluctuated dramatically and in the past, had significant cost increases, particularly the price of oil and gasoline. an increase in the price of oil increases our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and costs to purchase our products from suppliers. although we typically implement a hedging strategy designed to manage a portion of our transportation costs, that strategy may not be effective or sufficient and increases in oil and gasoline prices could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products and increase our operating costs, which could have an adverse effect on our performance. increased regulation related to environmental costs, including cap and trade or other emissions management systems could also adversely affect our costs of doing business, including utility costs, transportation and logistics. similarly, other commodity prices can fluctuate dramatically, such as the cost of cotton and synthetic fabrics, which at times have risen significantly. such increases can increase the cost of merchandise, which could adversely affect our performance through potentially reduced consumer demand or reduced margins. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may lead to lower revenues and earnings. sales made by our stores outside the united states are denominated in the currency of the country in which the store is located, and changes in currency exchange rates affect the translation of the sales and earnings of these businesses into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. because of this, movements in currency exchange rates have had and are expected to continue to have a significant impact on our consolidated and segment results from time to time. changes in currency exchange rates can also increase the cost of inventory purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the local currency of the business buying the merchandise. when exchange rates change significantly in a short period, as they did in fiscal 2015, it can be difficult for us to adjust retail prices accordingly, and gross margin can be adversely affected. in addition, a significant amount of merchandise we offer for sale is made in china and accordingly, a revaluation of chinese currency, or increased market flexibility in the exchange rate for that currency, increasing its value relative to the u.s. dollar or currencies in which our stores are located, could be significant. additionally, we routinely enter into inventory-related derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of currency exchange rates on merchandise margins of merchandise purchases by our divisions denominated in currencies other than their local currencies. in accordance with gaap, we evaluate the fair value of these derivative instruments and make mark-to-market adjustments at the end of each accounting period. these adjustments are of a much greater magnitude when there is significant volatility in currency exchange rates, as there was in fiscal 2015, and may have a significant impact on our earnings. although we implement foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in currency exchange rates, we expect that currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations from time to time. in addition, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our earnings and operating results if a counterparty to one of our hedging arrangements fails to perform. our quarterly operating results fluctuate and may fall short of prior periods, our projections or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could adversely affect our stock price. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter at points in the past, and they may do so in the future. if we fail to increase our results over prior periods, to achieve our projected results or to meet the 17 expectations of securities analysts or investors, our share price may decline, and the decrease in the stock price may be disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance. results may be affected by various factors, including those described in these risk factors. most of our operating expenses, such as rent expense and associate salaries, do not vary directly with the amount of our sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. as a result, if sales in a particular quarter are below our expectations for that quarter, we generally are not able to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, resulting in a disproportionate effect on our net income for the quarter. we maintain a forecasting process that seeks to project sales and align expenses. if we do not control costs or appropriately adjust costs to actual results, or if actual results differ significantly from our forecast, our financial performance could be adversely affected. in addition, if we do not repurchase the number of shares we contemplated pursuant to our stock repurchase programs, our earnings per share may be adversely affected. if we engage in mergers or acquisitions or investments in new businesses, or divest, close or consolidate any of our current businesses, our business will be subject to additional risks. we may acquire new businesses, invest in or enter into joint ventures with other businesses, develop new businesses internally and divest, close or consolidate businesses. acquisition, investment or divestiture activities may divert attention of management from operating the existing businesses, and we may not effectively evaluate target companies or investments or assess the risks, benefits and cost of buying, investing in or closing businesses or of the integration of acquired businesses, all of which can be difficult, time-consuming and dilutive. acquisitions and investments may not meet our performance and other expectations and acquisition, investments, closings and divestitures may expose us to unexpected or greater-than-expected costs, liabilities and risks. divestitures, closings and consolidations also involve risks, such as significant costs and obligations of closure, including exposure on leases, owned real estate and other contractual, employment, pension and severance obligations, and potential liabilities that may arise under law as a result of the disposition or the subsequent failure of an acquirer. failure to execute on mergers, acquisitions, investments, divestitures, closings and consolidations in a satisfactory manner could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. failure to comply with existing laws, regulations and orders or changes in existing laws and regulations could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance. we are subject to federal, state, provincial, regional and local laws, rules and regulations in the united states and other countries, any of which may change from time to time, as well as orders and assurances. these legal, regulatory and administrative requirements collectively affect multiple aspects of our business, from the cost of providing health care and retirement benefits, workforce management, logistics, marketing, import/export, sourcing and manufacturing, data protection and others. if we fail to comply with these laws, rules, regulations and orders, we may be subject to judgments, fines or other costs or penalties, which could materially adversely affect our operations and our financial results and condition. further, applicable accounting principles and interpretations may change from time to time, and the changes could have material effects on our reported financial results and condition. we must also comply with new and changing laws and regulations, new regulatory initiatives, evolving interpretation of existing laws by judicial and regulatory authorities, and reforms in jurisdictions where we do business. these changes could increase our costs of compliance or of doing business and could adversely affect our operating results, including those involving: labor and employment benefits, including regarding labor unions and works councils; health and welfare and financial regulations; consumer protection and product safety; data protection and privacy; climate change, supply chain, energy and waste; internet regulations, including e-commerce, electronic communications and privacy; and 18 protection of third party intellectual property rights. our results may be materially adversely affected by the outcomes of litigation, legal proceedings and other legal matters. we are involved, or may in the future become involved, in legal proceedings, regulatory reviews, audits and other legal matters. these may involve inquiries, investigations, lawsuits and other proceedings by local, provincial, state and federal governmental entities (in the united states and other countries) and private plaintiffs, including with respect to tax, escheat, whistleblower claims, employment and employee benefits including classification, employment rights, discrimination, wage and hour and retaliation, securities, disclosure, real estate, tort, consumer protection, privacy, product safety, advertising, and intellectual property. there continue to be a number of employment-related lawsuits, including putative class actions, in the united states, and we are subject to these types of suits. we cannot predict the results of legal and regulatory proceedings with certainty, and actual results may differ from any reserves we establish estimating the probable outcome. regardless of merit or outcome, litigation can be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and may cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations could expose us to significant defense costs, fines, penalties and liability to private parties and governmental entities for monetary recoveries and other amounts and attorneys fees and/or require us to change aspects of our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. tax matters could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our effective income tax rate and future tax liability could be adversely affected by numerous factors including the results of tax audits and examinations, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory income tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory income tax rates, changes in income tax rates, changes in transfer pricing, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in applicable tax legislation, regulations and treaties, exposure to additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties, and changes in accounting principles and interpretations relating to tax matters, any of which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition in future periods. significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our worldwide provision and accruals for taxes, and actual results may differ from our estimations. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns and reports by federal, state, provincial and local tax authorities in the u.s. and foreign countries, and the examining authorities may challenge positions we take. we are engaged in various proceedings, which are at various stages, with such authorities with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these proceedings to determine the adequacy and appropriateness of our provision for income taxes, and increase and decrease our provision as a result of these assessments. however, the developments in and actual results of proceedings or the result of rulings by or settlements with tax authorities and courts or due to changes in facts, law or legal interpretations, expiration of applicable statutes of limitations or other resolutions of tax positions could differ from the amounts we have accrued for such proceedings in either a positive or a negative manner, which could materially affect our effective income tax rate in a given financial period, the amount of taxes we are required to pay and our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to tax audits and examinations for payroll, value added, sales-based and other taxes relating to our businesses. our real estate leases generally obligate us for long periods, which subjects us to financial risks. we lease virtually all of our store locations, generally for an initial term of ten years, with options to renew the term, and either own or lease for long periods our primary distribution centers and administrative offices. accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with leasing and owning real estate, which can adversely affect our results as, for example, was the case in the closures of various of our former operations. while we have the right to terminate some of our leases under specified conditions, including by making specified payments, we may not be able to terminate a particular lease if or when we would like to do so. if we decide to close stores, we are generally required to continue to perform obligations under the applicable leases, which generally include, among other things, paying rent and operating expenses for the balance of the lease term, or 19 paying to exercise rights to terminate, and the performance of any of these obligations may be expensive. when we assign leases or sublease space to third parties, we can remain liable on the lease obligations if the assignee or sublessee does not perform. in addition, when the lease term for the stores in our ongoing operations expire, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores or to relocate stores within a market on less favorable terms. we depend upon strong cash flows from our operations to supply capital to fund our operations, growth, stock repurchases and dividends and interest and debt repayment. our business depends upon our operations to continue to generate strong cash flow to supply capital to support our general operating activities, to fund our growth and our return of cash to stockholders through our stock repurchase programs and dividends, and to pay our interest and debt repayments. our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities or to repatriate cash from our international operations in a manner that is cost effective could adversely affect our growth plans and financial performance including our earnings per share. we borrow on occasion to finance our activities and if financing were not available to us in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms when needed, it could also adversely affect our financial performance. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk tjx is exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of business. some potential market risks are discussed below: foreign currency exchange risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk on the translation of our foreign operations into the u.s. dollar and on purchases of goods in currencies that are not the local currencies of stores where the goods are sold and on intercompany debt and interest payable between and among our domestic and international operations. as more fully described in note f to our consolidated financial statements, we use derivative financial instruments to hedge a portion of certain merchandise purchase commitments, primarily at our international operations, and a portion of our intercompany transactions with and within our international operations. we enter into derivative contracts only for the purpose of hedging the underlying economic exposure. we utilize currency forward and swap contracts, designed to offset the gains or losses on the underlying exposures. the contracts are executed with banks we believe are creditworthy and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. our foreign exchange risk management policy prohibits us from using derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes or using any leveraged derivative financial instruments. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates applied to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above as well as the translation of our foreign operations into our reporting currency. as of january 31, 2015, the analysis indicated that such an adverse movement would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position but could have reduced our pre-tax income for fiscal 2015 by approximately $73 million. equity price and other market risk the assets of our funded qualified pension plan, a large portion of which are equity securities, are subject to the risks and uncertainties of the financial markets. we invest the pension assets (described further in note j to the consolidated financial statements) in a manner that attempts to minimize and control our exposure to market uncertainties. investments, in general, are exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit, and overall market volatility risks. a significant decline in the financial markets could adversely affect the value of our pension plan assets and the funded status of our pension plan, resulting in increased required contributions to the plan or other plan-related liabilities. our pension plan investment policy prohibits the use of derivatives for speculative purposes.risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully, in connection with all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks that follow, individually or in the aggregate, are those that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements. failure to execute our opportunistic buying strategy and inventory management could adversely affect our business. while opportunistic buying, operating with lean inventory levels and frequent inventory turns are key elements of our off-price business strategy, they subject us to risks related to the pricing, quantity, mix, nature and timing of inventory flowing to our stores. our merchants are in the marketplace frequently, as much of our merchandise is purchased for the current or immediately upcoming season, and our opportunistic buying places considerable discretion with them. our business model expects them to react to frequently changing opportunities and trends in the market, assess the desirability and value of merchandise and generally make determinations of how and what we source as well as when we source it. if we do not obtain the right fresh, desirable merchandise at the right times, quantities and prices, or the right mix of merchandise, it could adversely affect customer traffic as well as our sales and margins. we base our purchases of inventory, in part, on our sales forecasts. if our sales forecasts do not match customer demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and need to take markdowns on excess or slow-moving inventory, leading to decreased profit margins, or we may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, leading to lost sales, either of which could adversely affect our financial performance. if we are unable to generally purchase inventory at prices sufficiently below prices paid by conventional retailers, we may not be able to maintain an overall pricing differential to regular department and specialty stores, and our ability to attract customers or sustain our margins may be adversely affected. we may not achieve this at various times or in some segments, chains or geographies, which could adversely affect our results. we must also properly execute our inventory management strategy of delivering the right product to the right stores at the right time. we need to appropriately allocate merchandise among our stores, timely and efficiently distribute inventory to stores, maintain an appropriate mix and level of inventory in each store, appropriately change the allocation of floor space of stores among product categories to respond to customer demand and effectively manage pricing and markdowns. if we are not able to do so, our ability to attract and retain customers and our results could be adversely affected. in addition to our own execution, we may need to react to factors affecting inventory flow that are outside our control, discussed further below, such as adverse weather and natural disasters or changes in conditions affecting our vendors and others in our supply chain, such as political instability; labor issues, including port labor disputes, strikes or threats of strikes; or increasing cost of compliance with regulations. if we are not able to adjust appropriately to such factors, our inventory management may be affected, which could impact our performance and our relationship with our customers. failure to continue to expand our business and operations successfully or to manage our substantial size and scale effectively could adversely affect our financial results. our growth strategy includes successfully expanding our off-price model within our current markets and into new geographic regions, product lines, businesses and channels and, as appropriate, adding new businesses, whether by development, investment or acquisition. there are significant risks associated with our ability to continue to expand successfully, including managing the implementation of this growth effectively. if any aspect of our expansion strategy does not achieve the success we expect, in whole or in part, we may be required to 11 increase our investment, slow our planned growth or close stores or operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. for example, successful store growth requires us to find and lease appropriate real estate on attractive terms in each of the locations where we seek to open stores. our ability to do so depends, among other things, on availability and selection of appropriate sites in appropriate geographies; degree of competition for sites; factors affecting costs such as real estate, construction and development costs and costs and availability of capital; and variations in or changes to zoning or other land use regulations. if we cannot lease appropriate sites on attractive terms, it could limit our ability to successfully grow in various markets or adversely affect the economics of new stores in various markets. there are risks in entering new markets, including those detailed further below. new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores, whether in current or new markets, and adding stores to existing markets may adversely affect our sales and profitability. further, our substantial size may add operational complexity and imposes demands on maintaining appropriate internal resources and third party providers to support our business effectively. these demands may increase as we grow our business, adding pressure to management and various functions across our business, including administration, merchandising, store operations, distribution and compliance, and on appropriately staffing and training personnel in these areas as we grow. the large size and scale of our operations, our multiple chains in the u.s., canada and europe and our new chain in australia and the autonomy afforded to the chains in some aspects of the business increase the risk that our systems, controls, practices and policies will not be implemented effectively throughout our company and that information may not be appropriately shared across our operations. these risks may increase as we continue to grow, particularly as we expand into additional countries. if business information is not shared effectively, or if we are otherwise unable to manage our size or growth effectively, we may operate with decreased operational efficiency, may need to reduce our rate of expansion of one or more operations or otherwise curtail growth in one or more markets, which may adversely affect our success in executing our business goals and adversely impact our sales and results. failure to identify customer trends and preferences to meet customer demand in new or existing markets or channels could negatively impact our performance. because our success depends on our ability to meet customer demand, we work to identify customer trends and preferences on an ongoing basis and to offer inventory that meets those trends and preferences. however, doing so on a timely basis across our diverse merchandise categories and in the many markets in the u.s., canada, europe and australia in which we do business is challenging. trends and preferences in new markets may differ from what we anticipate. although our business model allows us greater flexibility than many traditional retailers to meet consumer preferences and trends and to expand and contract merchandise categories in response to consumers changing tastes, we may not successfully do so, which could add difficulty in successfully entering new markets, attracting new customers, retaining existing customers, encouraging frequent visits and adversely affect our results. customers may also have expectations about how they shop in stores or through e-commerce or more generally engage with businesses across different channels or media (through internet-based and other digital or mobile channels or particular forms of social media), which may vary across demographics and may evolve rapidly. meeting demand effectively involves identifying the right opportunities and making the right investments at the right time and with the right speed, among other things, and failure to do so may impact our reputation and our financial results. if we fail to successfully implement our various marketing efforts or if our competitors are more effective with their programs than we are, our revenue or results of operations may be adversely affected. customer traffic and demand for our merchandise may be influenced by our marketing efforts, the name recognition and reputation of our chains and the location of and service offered in our stores. although we use marketing to drive customer traffic through various media including television, social media, database marketing, mobile marketing, print and direct marketing, some of our competitors expend more for their programs than we do, or use different approaches than we do, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. internet-based and other digital or mobile communication channels and other social media rapidly evolve. our programs 12 may not be or remain effective or could require increased expenditures, which could have a significant adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. we operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to compete effectively. the retail apparel and home fashion business is highly competitive. we compete with local, regional, national and international retailers that sell apparel, home fashions and other merchandise we sell, including in stores, through e-commerce, catalogues or other media. some of our competitors are larger than we are or have more experience in selling certain product lines than we do. new competitors frequently enter the market and existing competitors enter or increase their presence in the markets in which we operate, expand their merchandise offerings, add new sales channels or change their pricing methods, all of which increase competition for customers. we compete on the basis of value, meaning a combination of brand, fashion, price, quality; merchandise selection and freshness; brand name recognition; customer service; reputation and store location. our competitiveness is highly dependent on our effective execution of our off-price model of offering our customers a fresh, rapidly changing and attractive mix of merchandise delivering value. if we fail to compete effectively, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. failure to attract, train and retain quality associates in appropriate numbers, including key associates and management, could adversely affect our performance. our performance depends on recruiting, developing, training and retaining quality sales, systems, distribution center and other associates in large numbers as well as experienced associates in key areas such as buying and management. many of our associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. availability and skill of associates may differ across markets in which we do business and in new markets we enter, and we need to manage our labor needs effectively. in addition, because of the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must provide significant internal training and development for key associates across the company, including within our buying organization. similar to other retailers, we face challenges in securing and retaining sufficient talent in management and other key areas for many reasons, including competition in the retail industry generally and for talent in various geographic markets. if we do not continue to attract qualified individuals, train them in our business model, support their development and retain them, our performance could be adversely affected or our growth could be limited. labor costs, including pension and healthcare costs, and other challenges from our large workforce may adversely affect our results and profitability. we have a large workforce, and our ability to meet our labor needs is subject to various factors such as unemployment levels; prevailing wage rates and wage requirements; participant benefit levels; changing demographics; economic conditions; interest rate changes; economic, demographic and other actuarial assumptions; health and other insurance costs and the regulatory environment, including health care legislation, immigration law, and governmental labor and employment and employee benefits programs and requirements, each of which could increase our costs. increased labor costs, including costs of providing retirement, health and other employment benefits may adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, when wage rates or benefit levels increase in a market, increasing our wages or benefits may negatively impact our earnings as they did during fiscal 2016, while failing to increase our wages or benefits competitively or reducing our wages or benefits, could result in a decline in our ability to attract or retain associates or in the quality of our workforce, causing our customer service or performance to suffer, which could impact our results. certain associates in our distribution centers are members of unions and therefore subject us to the risk of labor actions of various kinds as well as risks and potential expenses associated with multiemployer plans, including from potential withdrawal liability and potential insolvency of other participating employers. other associates are members of works councils, which may subject us to additional actions or expense. in addition, any failure of third parties that perform services on our behalf to comply with immigration, employment or other laws and regulations could damage our reputation or disrupt our ability to obtain needed labor. 13 compromises of our data security could materially harm our reputation and business. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect, store, process and transmit certain information from individuals, such as our customers and associates, including, for example, customer payment card and check information. we rely in part on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of personal and/or confidential information. as with many other companies, particularly in the retail industry, we are subject to attempts to compromise our data security. computer hackers may, for example, attempt to penetrate our computer systems or those of the third parties with whom we work or to whom we outsource business operations and, if successful, misappropriate customer or associate information or confidential business information of our company. while we have taken steps designed to further strengthen the security of our computer system since the unauthorized intrusion(s) into our network discovered late in 2006, in which we believe customer data were stolen, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer a future data compromise, that unauthorized parties will not gain access to the information that we collect, store, process or transmit, or that any such data compromise or unauthorized access will be discovered in a timely way. in addition, an associate, contractor or third party with whom we do business or to whom we outsource business operations may fail to monitor their or our systems effectively, may fail to maintain appropriate safeguards or one of those parties may misuse the personal or confidential information to which they have access, may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to access or misappropriate such types of information or may purposefully or, through error, inadvertently cause a breach involving, or otherwise disclose, such information. advances in computer and software technology and capabilities, rapid changes in the sources, methods and targets of cyber-attacks and other developments, including the increasing sophistication of cyber criminals generally, may increase the risk of such a breach. compromise of our data security or that of third parties with whom we do business or to whom we outsource business operations, including through cyber-attacks or other external or internal methods, failure to prevent or mitigate the loss of personal or business information and delays in detecting any such compromise or loss could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and decrease our customers willingness to shop in our stores or online, impact our ability to attract and retain customers, violate applicable laws, regulations, orders and agreements, and subject us to additional costs and liabilities which could be material. failure to operate information systems and implement new technologies effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability. we rely extensively on various information systems, including data centers, hardware and software and applications to manage many aspects of our business, including to process and record transactions in our stores, to enable effective communication systems, to plan and track inventory flow, to manage logistics, to generate performance and financial reports and to operate our e-commerce sites. we are dependent on the integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems and related back-up systems. supporting these internal and external systems requires a number of resources, including effective and qualified, and in some cases, specialized, teams. as we grow and as our systems evolve, we must continue to hire, train, manage and retain these teams, including to support our customized and legacy systems, in an effective way. our computer systems and the third-party systems we rely on are also subject to damage or interruption from a number of causes, including power outages; computer and telecommunications failures; computer viruses or malware; security breaches; cyber-attacks; catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes; acts of war or terrorism; and design or usage errors by our associates or contractors. although we seek to maintain our systems effectively, manage our team of internal and third party resources effectively and successfully address the risk of compromises of the integrity, security and consistent operations of our systems, we may not be successful in doing so. compromises, interruptions or shutdowns of our systems, including those managed by third parties, whether intentional or inadvertent, could lead to delays in our business operations and, if significant or extreme, affect our results of operations. in addition, any interruption in the operation of our websites, particularly our e-commerce sites, could cause us to suffer reputational harm or to lose sales if customers are unable to access our site or purchase merchandise from us during such an interruption. 14 we modify, update, and replace our systems and infrastructure from time to time, including by adding new hardware, software and applications; maintaining, updating or replacing legacy programs; converting to global systems; integrating new service providers and adding enhanced or new functionality, such as for cloud computing technologies and for the continued operation and development of our e-commerce businesses; and adding new systems when we acquire new businesses. we also modify and change our procedures for, and add and change vendors and internal teams who assist us with designing, implementing and maintaining our systems. although we believe we are diligent in selecting systems, teams and vendors and implementing procedures to enable us to maintain the integrity of our systems when we modify them, there are inherent risks associated with modifying or replacing systems, with new or changed relationships and with changes from acquisitions, including accurately capturing and maintaining data, efficiently testing and implementing changes in a timely manner, realizing the expected benefit of the change and managing the potential disruption of the operation of the systems and diversion to internal teams attention as the changes are implemented. further, potential issues associated with implementing technology initiatives and the time and resources required to optimize the benefits of new elements of our systems and its infrastructure could reduce the efficiency of our operations in the short term. the efficient operation and successful growth of our business depends upon our information systems, including our ability to operate and maintain them effectively, to select appropriate internal teams and vendors to maintain or enhance them and to select and implement appropriate new technologies, systems, controls, hardware, software and applications and adequate disaster recovery systems successfully. the failure of our information systems and the third party systems we rely on to perform as designed, or our failure to implement and operate them effectively, could disrupt our business or subject us to liability and thereby harm our profitability. economic conditions, on a global level or in particular markets, may adversely affect our financial performance. global financial markets can experience extreme volatility, disruption and credit contraction, which adversely affect global economic conditions. turmoil in the financial and credit markets or other changes in economic conditions could adversely affect sources of liquidity available to us or our costs of capital and could adversely affect plan asset values and investment performance, and increase our pension liabilities, expenses and funding requirements with respect to company-sponsored and multiemployer pension plans. economic conditions, both on a global level and in particular markets, including unemployment, decreased disposable income and actual and perceived wealth, energy and health care costs, interest and tax rates and policies, weakness in the housing market, volatility in capital markets, decreased credit availability, inflation and deflation, as well as political or other factors beyond our control such as threats or possibilities of war, terrorism, global or national unrest, actual or threatened epidemics, and political instability may also have significant effects on consumer confidence and spending. consumer spending, in turn, affects retail sales. these conditions and factors could adversely affect discretionary consumer spending and, although we believe our flexible off-price model helps us react, they may adversely affect our sales, cash flows and results of operations and performance. adverse or unseasonable weather in the markets in which our stores operate or along our supply chain could adversely affect our operating results. both adverse and unseasonable weather, such as storms, severe cold or heat or unseasonable temperatures, affect customers buying patterns and willingness to shop certain categories or at all, and accordingly, can adversely affect the demand for the merchandise in our stores, particularly in apparel and seasonal merchandise. weather can also affect the ability to transport merchandise to our stores from our distribution and shipping centers or elsewhere in our supply chain efficiently or in a timely way. as a result, adverse or unseasonable weather could adversely affect our sales, increase markdowns and adversely affect our operating results. our results may be adversely affected by serious disruptions or catastrophic events. unforeseen public health issues, such as pandemics and epidemics, natural or other disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes and other extreme weather and climate conditions, or fires, explosions and acts of war or terrorism could disrupt our operations or the operations of one or more of our vendors or of our supply chain or could severely damage or destroy one or more of our stores or distribution 15 facilities located in the affected areas. day-to-day operations, particularly our ability to receive products from our vendors or transport products to our stores could be adversely affected, or we could be required to close stores or distribution centers in the affected areas or in areas served by affected distribution centers for a short or extended period of time. as a result, our business could be adversely affected. as our business is subject to seasonal influences, a decrease in sales or margins, a severe disruption or other significant event that impacts our business during the second half of the year could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results. our business is subject to seasonal influences. we generally realize higher levels of sales and income in the second half of the year, which includes the back-to-school and year-end holiday seasons. any decrease in sales or margins or any significant adverse event during this period could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our results of operations. damage to our corporate reputation or those of our retail banners could adversely affect our sales and operating results. we believe that building the brand reputation of our retail banners is important to our continuing success. in the many different markets in which we do business, we work to build relationships with our customers through our various marketing campaigns. these relationships and our reputation are based, in part, on perceptions of subjective qualities, so incidents involving us, merchandise that we carry or our industry more generally that erode trust or confidence could adversely affect our reputation and our business, particularly if the incidents result in rapid or significant adverse publicity or governmental inquiry. similarly, information about us, our retail banners and the merchandise we sell, including our licensed or owned brands, publicized through traditional or social media platforms and similar venues, including blogs, websites, and other forums for rapid, broad communications to an audience of consumers and other interested persons, may adversely affect our reputation and brand, even if the information is unverified or inaccurate. the reputation of our company and our retail banners may be damaged by adverse events at the corporate level or at our retail banners in all, one or some of the markets in which we do business. damage to the reputation of our company and our banners could result in declines in customer loyalty and sales, affect our vendor relationships, development opportunities and associate retention and otherwise adversely affect our business. quality, safety or other issues with merchandise we sell could damage our reputation, sales and financial results. various governmental authorities in the jurisdictions where we do business regulate the quality and safety of the merchandise we sell to consumers. regulations and standards in this area, including those related to the u.s. consumer product safety improvement act of 2008, state regulations like california proposition 65, and similar legislation in other countries in which we operate, impose restrictions and requirements on the merchandise we sell in our stores and through e-commerce. these regulations change from time to time and new federal, state, provincial or local regulations in the u.s. and other countries that may affect our business are contemplated and enacted with some regularity. if we or our merchandise vendors are unable to comply with regulatory requirements on a timely basis or at all, or to adequately monitor new regulations that may apply to existing or new merchandise categories or in new geographies, significant fines or penalties could be incurred or we could have to curtail some aspects of our sales or operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we rely on our vendors to provide quality merchandise that complies with applicable product safety laws and other applicable laws, but they may not comply with their obligations to do so. although our arrangements with our vendors frequently provide for indemnification for product liabilities, the vendors may fail to honor those obligations to an extent we consider sufficient or at all. issues with the quality and safety of merchandise, particularly with food, bath and body and children products, and issues with the genuineness of merchandise, or customer concerns about such issues, regardless of our fault, could cause damage to our reputation and could result in lost sales, uninsured product liability claims or losses, merchandise recalls and increased costs, and regulatory, civil or criminal fines or penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 16 our expanding international operations may expose us to risks inherent in operating in new countries. we have a significant retail presence in canada and in countries in europe and have established buying offices around the world. we have recently expanded our operations into additional markets in europe and australia and our goal is to continue to expand our operations into other international markets in the future. it can be costly and complex to establish, develop and maintain international operations and promote business in new international jurisdictions, which may differ significantly from the u.s. and other countries in which we currently operate. in addition to facing risks similar to our u.s. and current international operations, such as with regulations like the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, there are additional risks inherent in opening and developing operations in new countries. these additional risks include, among others, understanding the local retail climate and trends, local customs and cultures, seasonal differences, business practices and competitive conditions; complying with relevant laws, rules and regulations; developing the appropriate infrastructure; and identifying suitable partners for local operations and for integration with our global operations. there are also financial, regulatory and other risks associated with international operations, including currency exchange fluctuations; potentially adverse tax consequences; limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds outside of the country where earned; trade regulations; the risk of sudden policy or regulatory changes; the risk of political, economic and civil instability and labor unrest; and uncertainties regarding interpretation, application and enforceability of laws and agreements. any of these risks could adversely impact our operations, profitability or liquidity. complying with applicable laws, rules and regulations and our own internal policies may also require us to spend additional time and resources to implement new procedures and financial and other controls, conduct audits, train associates and third parties on our compliance methods or take other actions, any of which could adversely impact our operations. we are subject to risks associated with importing merchandise from other countries. many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our vendors and, to a lesser extent, by us, in many countries outside of the country where the stores are located, particularly southeastern asia. where we are the importer of record, we may be subject to regulatory or other requirements similar to those imposed upon the manufacturer of such products. we are subject to the various risks of importing merchandise from other countries and purchasing product made in other countries, such as: potential disruptions in manufacturing, logistics and supply; changes in duties, tariffs, trade restrictions, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise; transport capacity and costs; information technology challenges; problems in third-party distribution and warehousing and other interruptions of the supply chain; strikes, threats of strikes and other events affecting delivery; consumer perceptions of the safety or quality of imported merchandise; product and international trade compliance with laws and regulations of the destination country; compliance with laws and regulations including changing labor, environmental and other laws in those countries and those concerning ethical business practices, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act; product liability claims from customers or penalties from government agencies relating to products that are recalled, defective or otherwise noncompliant or alleged to be harmful; exposure for product warranty and intellectual property issues; concerns about human rights, working conditions and other labor rights and conditions in countries where merchandise is produced; concerns about transparent sourcing and supply chains; 17 currency exchange rates, financial or economic instability; and political or other disruptions in countries from or through which merchandise is imported. these and other factors relating to international trade and imported merchandise beyond our control could affect the availability and the price of our inventory. furthermore, although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations relating to operating in non-u.s. jurisdictions and importing merchandise, there can be no assurance that contractors, agents, vendors or other third parties with whom we do business or to whom we outsource business operations will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies, which could subject us to liability and could adversely affect our reputation, operations or operating results. our results may be adversely affected by reduced availability or increases in the price of oil or other fuels, raw materials and other commodities. energy and fuel costs can fluctuate dramatically and, at times, have resulted in significant cost increases, particularly for the price of oil and gasoline. an increase in the price of oil increases our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and costs to purchase our products from suppliers. although we typically implement a hedging strategy designed to manage a portion of our transportation costs, that strategy may not be effective or sufficient and could result in increased operating costs. increases in oil and gasoline prices could also adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products. increased operating costs and decreased consumer spending and demand for our products could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate. increased regulation related to environmental costs, including cap and trade or other emissions management systems could also adversely affect our costs of doing business, including utility, transportation and logistics costs. similarly, other commodity prices can fluctuate dramatically, such as the cost of cotton and synthetic fabrics, which at times have risen significantly. such increases can increase the cost of merchandise, which could adversely affect our performance through potentially reduced consumer demand or reduced margins. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may lead to lower revenues and earnings. sales made by our stores outside the united states are denominated in the currency of the country in which the store is located, and changes in currency exchange rates affect the translation of the sales and earnings of these businesses into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. because of this, movements in currency exchange rates have had and are expected to continue to have a significant impact on our consolidated and segment results from time to time. changes in currency exchange rates can also increase the cost of inventory purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the local currency of the business buying the merchandise. when exchange rates change significantly in a short period or move unfavorably over an extended period, as they did in fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2016, respectively, it can be difficult for us to adjust retail prices accordingly, and gross margin can be adversely affected. in addition, a significant amount of merchandise we offer for sale is made in china and accordingly, a revaluation of chinese currency, or increased market flexibility in the exchange rate for that currency, increasing its value relative to the u.s. dollar or currencies in which our stores are located, could be significant. additionally, we routinely enter into inventory-related derivative instruments to mitigate the impact of currency exchange rates on merchandise margins of merchandise purchases by our segments denominated in currencies other than their local currencies. in accordance with gaap, we evaluate the fair value of these derivative instruments and make mark-to-market adjustments at the end of each accounting period. these adjustments are of a much greater magnitude when there is significant volatility in currency exchange rates and may have a significant impact on our earnings. although we implement foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in currency exchange rates, we expect that currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations from time to time. in addition, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our earnings and operating results if a counterparty to one of our hedging arrangements fails to perform. 18 our quarterly operating results fluctuate and may fall short of prior periods, our projections or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could adversely affect our stock price. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter at points in the past, and they may do so in the future. if we fail to increase our results over prior periods, to achieve our projected results or to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decline, and the decrease in the stock price may be disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance. results may be affected by various factors, including those described in these risk factors. we maintain a forecasting process that seeks to project sales and align expenses. if we do not control costs or appropriately adjust costs to actual results, or if actual results differ significantly from our forecast, our financial performance could be adversely affected. in addition, if we do not repurchase the number of shares we contemplated pursuant to our stock repurchase programs, our earnings per share may be adversely affected. if we engage in mergers or acquisitions or investments in new businesses, or divest, close or consolidate any of our current businesses, our business will be subject to additional risks. we may acquire new businesses (as we did with trade secret in fiscal 2016 and stp in fiscal 2013), invest in or enter into joint ventures with other businesses, develop new businesses internally and divest, close or consolidate businesses. failure to execute on mergers, acquisitions, investments, divestitures, closings and consolidations in a satisfactory manner could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. acquisition, investment or divestiture activities may divert attention of management from operating the existing businesses, and we may not effectively evaluate target companies, investments or investment partners or assess the risks, benefits and cost of buying, investing in or closing businesses or of the integration of acquired businesses, all of which can be difficult, time-consuming and dilutive. these activities may not meet our performance and other expectations and may expose us to unexpected or greater-than-expected costs, liabilities and risks. if we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions, we may be required to impair some or all of the goodwill associated with an acquisition, which could adversely impact our results of operations. divestitures, closings and consolidations could involve risks such as significant costs and obligations of closure, including exposure on leases, owned real estate and other contractual, employment, pension and severance obligations, and potential liabilities that may arise under law as a result of the disposition or the subsequent failure of an acquirer. failure to comply with existing laws, regulations and orders or changes in existing laws, regulations and applicable accounting principles and interpretations could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance. we are subject to federal, state, provincial, regional and local laws, rules and regulations in the united states and other countries, any of which may change from time to time, as well as orders and assurances. these legal, regulatory and administrative requirements collectively affect multiple aspects of our business, from the cost of providing health care and retirement benefits, workforce management, logistics, marketing, import/export, sourcing and manufacturing, data protection and others. if we fail to comply with these laws, rules, regulations and orders, we may be subject to judgments, fines or other costs or penalties, which could materially adversely affect our operations and our financial results and condition. we must also comply with new and changing laws and regulations, new regulatory initiatives, evolving interpretation of existing laws by judicial and regulatory authorities, and reforms in jurisdictions where we do business. these changes could increase our costs of compliance or of doing business and could adversely affect our operating results, including those involving: labor and employment benefits, including regarding labor unions and works councils; health and welfare and financial regulations; consumer protection and product safety; data protection and privacy; climate change, supply chain, energy and waste; 19 internet regulations, including e-commerce, electronic communications and privacy; and protection of third party intellectual property rights. further, applicable accounting principles and interpretations may change from time to time, and the changes could have material effects on our reported financial results and condition. our results may be materially adversely affected by the outcomes of litigation, legal proceedings and other legal or regulatory matters. we are involved, or may in the future become involved, in legal proceedings, regulatory reviews, audits and other legal matters. these may involve inquiries, investigations, lawsuits and other proceedings by local, provincial, state and federal governmental entities (in the united states and other countries) and private plaintiffs, including with respect to tax, escheat, whistleblower claims, employment and employee benefits including classification, employment rights, discrimination, wage and hour and retaliation, securities, disclosure, real estate, tort, consumer protection, privacy/data security, product safety, advertising, and intellectual property. there continue to be a number of employment-related and consumer protection lawsuits, including putative class actions, in the united states, and we are subject to these types of suits. we cannot predict the results of legal and regulatory proceedings with certainty, and actual results may differ from any reserves we establish estimating the probable outcome. regardless of merit or outcome, litigation can be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and may cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations could expose us to significant defense costs, fines, penalties and liability to private parties and governmental entities for monetary recoveries and other amounts and attorneys fees and/or require us to change aspects of our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. tax matters could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our effective income tax rate and future tax liability could be adversely affected by numerous factors including the results of tax audits and examinations, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory income tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory income tax rates, changes in income tax rates, changes in transfer pricing, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in applicable tax legislation, regulations and treaties, exposure to additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties, and changes in accounting principles and interpretations relating to tax matters, any of which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition in future periods. significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our worldwide provision and accruals for taxes, and actual results may differ from our estimations. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns and reports by federal, state, provincial and local tax authorities in the u.s. and foreign countries, and the examining authorities may challenge positions we take. we are engaged in various proceedings, which are at various stages, with such authorities with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these proceedings to determine the adequacy and appropriateness of our provision for income taxes, and increase and decrease our provision as a result of these assessments. however, the developments in and actual results of proceedings or the result of rulings by or settlements with tax authorities and courts or due to changes in facts, law or legal interpretations, expiration of applicable statutes of limitations or other resolutions of tax positions could differ from the amounts we have accrued for such proceedings in either a positive or a negative manner, which could materially affect our effective income tax rate in a given financial period, the amount of taxes we are required to pay and our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to tax audits and examinations for payroll, value added, sales-based and other taxes relating to our businesses. our real estate leases generally obligate us for long periods, which subjects us to financial risks. we lease virtually all of our store locations, generally for an initial term of 10 years, with options to renew the term, in the u.s. and canada or an initial term of 10 to 15 years in europe. in addition, we either own or lease for 20 long periods our primary distribution centers and administrative offices. accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with leasing and owning real estate, which can adversely affect our results as, for example, was the case in the closures of various of our former operations. while we have the right to terminate some of our leases under specified conditions, including by making specified payments, we may not be able to terminate a particular lease if or when we would like to do so. if we decide to close stores, we are generally required to continue to perform obligations under the applicable leases, which generally include, among other things, paying rent and operating expenses for the balance of the lease term, or paying to exercise rights to terminate, and the performance of any of these obligations may be expensive. when we assign leases or sublease space to third parties, we can remain liable on the lease obligations if the assignee or sublessee does not perform. in addition, when the lease term for the stores in our ongoing operations expire, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores or to relocate stores within a market on less favorable terms. we depend upon strong cash flows from our operations to supply capital to fund our operations, growth, stock repurchases and dividends and interest and debt repayment. our business depends upon our operations to continue to generate strong cash flow to supply capital to support our general operating activities, to fund our growth and our return of cash to stockholders through our stock repurchase programs and dividends, and to pay our interest and debt repayments. our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities or to repatriate cash from our international operations in a manner that is cost effective could adversely affect our growth plans and financial performance including our earnings per share. we borrow on occasion to finance our activities and if financing were not available to us in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms when needed, it could also adversely affect our financial performance. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk tjx is exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of business. some potential market risks are discussed below: foreign currency exchange risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk on the translation of our foreign operations into the u.s. dollar and on purchases of goods in currencies that are not the local currencies of stores where the goods are sold and on intercompany debt and interest payable between and among our domestic and international operations. our currency risk primarily relates to our activity in the canadian dollar, british pound and euro. as more fully described in note e to our consolidated financial statements, we use derivative financial instruments to hedge a portion of certain merchandise purchase commitments, primarily at our international operations, and a portion of our intercompany transactions with and within our international operations. we enter into derivative contracts only for the purpose of hedging the underlying economic exposure. we utilize currency forward and 37 swap contracts, designed to offset the gains or losses on the underlying exposures. the contracts are executed with banks we believe are creditworthy and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. our foreign exchange risk management policy prohibits us from using derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and we do not use any leveraged derivative financial instruments. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates applied to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above as well as the translation of our foreign operations into our reporting currency. as of january 30, 2016 and january 31, 2015, the analysis indicated that such an adverse movement would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position but could have reduced our pre-tax income for the fiscal year by approximately $69 million and $73 million, respectively. equity price and other market risk the assets of our funded qualified pension plan, a large portion of which are equity securities, are subject to the risks and uncertainties of the financial markets. we invest the pension assets (described further in note i to the consolidated financial statements) in a manner that attempts to minimize and control our exposure to market uncertainties. investments, in general, are exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit, and overall market volatility risks. a significant decline in the financial markets could adversely affect the value of our pension plan assets and the funded status of our pension plan, resulting in increased required contributions to the plan or other plan-related liabilities. our pension plan investment policy prohibits the use of derivatives for speculative purposes.risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully, in connection with all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks that follow are those that we think, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements. failure to execute our opportunistic buying strategy and inventory management could adversely affect our results. while opportunistic buying, operating with lean inventory levels and frequent inventory turns are key elements of our off-price business strategy, they subject us to risks related to the pricing, quantity, mix, nature and timing of inventory flowing to our stores. our merchants are in the marketplace frequently, as much of our merchandise is purchased for the current or immediately upcoming season, and our opportunistic buying places considerable discretion with them. our business model expects them to react to frequently changing opportunities and trends in the market, assess the desirability and value of merchandise and generally make determinations of how and what we source as well as when we source it. if we do not obtain the right merchandise at the right times, in the right quantities, at the right prices and in the right mix, our customer traffic, as well as our sales and margins, could be adversely affected. we base our purchases of inventory, in part, on our sales forecasts. if our sales forecasts do not match customer demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and need to take markdowns on excess or slow-moving inventory, leading to decreased profit margins, or we may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, leading to lost sales, either of which could adversely affect our financial performance. if we are unable to generally purchase inventory at prices sufficiently below prices paid by conventional retailers, we may not be able to maintain an overall pricing differential to regular department and specialty stores, and our ability to attract customers or sustain our margins may be adversely affected. we may not achieve this pricing differential at various times or in some segments, chains or geographies, which could adversely affect our results. similarly, we must also properly execute our inventory management strategy of distributing the right product to the right stores in the right quantities at the right time. to respond to customer demand and effectively manage pricing and markdowns, we need to appropriately allocate and deliver merchandise to our stores, maintain an appropriate mix and level of inventory in each store, and appropriately change the allocation of floor space at our stores among product categories. if we are not able to do so, our ability to attract and retain customers and our results could be adversely affected. failure to continue to expand our business and operations successfully or to manage our substantial size and scale effectively could adversely affect our financial results. our growth strategy includes successfully expanding our off-price model within our current markets and into new geographic regions, product lines, businesses and channels and, as appropriate, adding new businesses, whether by development, investment or acquisition. there are significant risks associated with our ability to continue to expand successfully, including managing the implementation of this growth effectively. if any aspect of our expansion strategy does not achieve the success we expect, in whole or in part, we may fail to meet our financial performance expectations, be required to increase our investment, slow our planned growth or close stores or operations. for example, successful store growth requires us to find and lease appropriate real estate on attractive terms in each of the locations where we seek to open stores. the success of this process depends on many factors, including availability of appropriate sites; real estate, construction and development costs; costs and availability of capital; and zoning or other land use regulations. if we cannot lease appropriate sites on attractive terms, it could limit our ability to successfully grow in various markets or adversely affect the economics of new stores in various markets. similarly, new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit 11 levels as our existing stores, whether in current or new markets, or adding stores or banners to existing markets may otherwise adversely affect our sales and profitability. further, our substantial size imposes demands on effectively managing our complex operations and maintaining appropriate internal resources and third party providers to support our business effectively. these demands may increase as we grow our business, adding pressure to management and various functions across our business, including administration, systems, merchandising, store operations, distribution and compliance, and on appropriately staffing and training associates in these areas as we grow. the large size and scale of our operations, our multiple banners and locations in the u.s., canada, europe and australia and the autonomy afforded to the banners in some aspects of the business increase the risk that our systems, controls, practices and policies will not be implemented effectively or consistently throughout our company and that information may not be appropriately shared across our operations. these risks may increase as we continue to grow, particularly as we expand into additional countries. if business information is not shared effectively, or if we are otherwise unable to manage our size or growth effectively, we may operate with decreased operational efficiency, may need to reduce our rate of expansion of one or more operations or otherwise curtail growth in one or more markets, which may adversely affect our success in executing our business goals and adversely impact our sales and results. failure to identify consumer trends and preferences to meet customer demand in new or existing markets or channels could negatively impact our performance. as our success depends on our ability to meet customer demand, we work to identify consumer trends and preferences on an ongoing basis and to offer inventory that meets those trends and preferences. however, doing so on a timely basis across our diverse merchandise categories and in the many markets in the u.s., canada, europe and australia in which we do business is challenging. trends and preferences in new markets may differ from what we anticipate. although our business model allows us greater flexibility than many traditional retailers to meet consumer preferences and trends and to expand and contract merchandise categories in response to consumers changing tastes, we may not successfully do so, which could add difficulty in attracting new customers, retaining existing customers, encouraging frequent visits and adversely affect our results. customers may also have expectations about how they shop in stores or through e-commerce or more generally engage with businesses across different channels (through internet-based and other digital or mobile channels or particular forms of social media outlets), which may vary across demographics and may evolve rapidly. meeting these expectations effectively involves identifying the right opportunities and making the right investments at the right time and with the right speed, among other things, and failure to do so may impact our reputation and our financial results. if we fail to successfully implement our various marketing efforts or if our competitors are more effective with their programs than we are, our revenue or results of operations may be adversely affected. customer traffic and demand for our merchandise may be influenced by our marketing efforts, the name recognition and reputation of our banners and the location of and service offered in our stores. although we use marketing to drive customer traffic through various media including television, radio, print, outdoor, digital/social media, email, mobile and direct mail, some of our competitors expend more for their programs than we do, or use different approaches than we do, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. further, we may not effectively implement strategies with respect to rapidly evolving internet-based and other digital or mobile communication channels and other social media. our programs may not be or remain effective or could require increased expenditures, which could have a significant adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. we operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to compete effectively. the retail apparel and home fashion businesses are highly competitive. we compete with local, regional, national and international retailers that sell apparel, home fashions and other merchandise we sell, including in stores, through e-commerce, catalogues or other media or channels. some of our competitors are larger than we are or have more experience in selling certain product lines than we do. new competitors frequently enter the 12 market and existing competitors enter or increase their presence in the markets in which we operate, expand their merchandise offerings, add new sales channels or change their pricing strategies, all of which affect the competitive landscape. we compete on the basis of value, meaning a combination of brand, fashion, price, and quality; merchandise selection and freshness; banner name recognition and appeal; customer service; reputation and store location. if we fail to compete effectively, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. failure to employ quality associates in appropriate numbers, including key associates and management, could adversely affect our performance. our performance depends on recruiting, hiring, developing, training and retaining talented associates in key areas such as buying and management as well as quality store, systems, distribution center and other associates in large numbers. a significant number of our associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. availability and skill of associates may differ across markets in which we do business and in new markets we enter, and we may be unable to manage our labor needs effectively. in addition, because of the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must provide significant internal training and development for key associates across the company, including within our buying organization. similar to other retailers, we face challenges in securing and retaining sufficient talent in management and other key areas for many reasons, including competition in the retail industry and for talent in various geographic markets. if we do not effectively attract qualified individuals, train them in our business model, support their development and retain them, our growth could be limited and our performance could be adversely affected. labor costs, including pension and healthcare costs, and other challenges from our large workforce may adversely affect our results and profitability. we have a large workforce, and our ability to meet our labor needs and control labor costs is subject to various factors such as unemployment levels; prevailing wage rates and wage requirements; participant benefit levels; changing demographics; economic conditions; interest rate changes; economic, demographic and other actuarial assumptions; health and other insurance costs and a dynamic regulatory environment, including health care legislation, immigration law, and governmental labor and employment and employee benefits programs and requirements, each of which could increase our costs. increased labor costs, including costs of providing and managing retirement, health and other employment benefits may adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, when wage rates or benefit levels increase in a market, increasing our wages or benefits may negatively impact our earnings as they did during fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2017, while failing to increase our wages or benefits competitively or reducing our wages or benefits, could result in a decline in our ability to attract or retain associates or in the quality of our workforce, causing our customer service or performance to suffer, which could impact our results. many associates in our distribution centers are members of unions and therefore subject us to the risk of labor actions of various kinds as well as risks and potential material expenses associated with multiemployer plans, including from plan underfunding, benefit cuts, withdrawal liability, or insolvency of other participating employers or governmental insurance programs. other associates are members of works councils, which may subject us to additional actions or expense. compromises of our data security could materially harm our reputation and business. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect, store, process and transmit certain information from individuals, such as our customers and associates, including, for example, customer payment card and check information. we rely in part on commercially available systems, software, hardware, services, tools and monitoring to provide security for collection, storage, processing, and transmission of personal and/or confidential information. as with many other companies, particularly in the retail industry, we are subject to attempts to compromise our data security. computer hackers may, for example, attempt to penetrate our computer systems or those of the third parties with whom we work or to whom we outsource business operations and, if successful, misappropriate customer or associate information or confidential business information of our company. while we have taken steps designed to further strengthen the security of our computer systems since the unauthorized intrusion(s) into our network discovered late in 2006, in which we believe customer data were stolen, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer a future data security 13 compromise, that unauthorized parties will not gain access to the information that we collect, store, process or transmit or otherwise interfere with our systems, or that any such data security compromise or unauthorized access will be discovered in a timely way. in addition, an associate, contractor or third parties with whom we work or to whom we outsource business operations may fail to monitor their or our systems effectively, may fail to maintain appropriate safeguards, may misuse the personal or confidential information to which they have access, may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to access or misappropriate such types of information or may purposefully or, through error, inadvertently cause a breach involving, or otherwise disclose, such information. advances in computer and software technology and capabilities, rapid changes in the sources, methods and targets of cyber-attacks and other developments, including the increasing sophistication of cyber criminals generally, may increase the risk of such a breach. compromise of our data security or that of third parties with whom we work or to whom we outsource business operations, including through cyber-attacks or other external or internal methods or error, failure to prevent or mitigate the loss of personal or business information and delays in detecting any such compromise or loss could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and decrease our customers willingness to shop in our stores or online, impact our ability to attract and retain customers, violate applicable laws, regulations, orders and agreements, and subject us to additional costs and liabilities which could be material. failure to operate information systems and implement new technologies effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability. we rely extensively on various information systems, including data centers, telecommunications systems, hardware and software and applications to manage many aspects of our business, including to process and record transactions in our stores, to enable effective communication systems, to source, plan and track inventory, to manage logistics, to generate performance and financial reports, to comply with regulatory requirements and to operate our e-commerce sites. we are dependent on the integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems and related back-up systems. supporting these internal and external systems requires a number of resources, including effective and qualified, and in some cases, specialized, teams. as we grow and as our systems evolve, we must continue to hire, train, manage and retain these teams, including those needed to support our customized and legacy systems in an effective way. our information systems, and the third-party systems we rely on, are also subject to damage or interruption from a number of causes, including power outages; system failures; computer viruses or malware; security breaches; cyber-attacks; catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes; acts of war or terrorism; and design or usage errors by our associates, contractors or third party service providers on which we rely. although we seek to maintain our systems effectively, manage our team of internal and third party resources effectively and successfully address the risk of compromises of the integrity, security and consistent operations of our systems, we may not be successful in doing so. our approach to disaster recovery may not be adequate and any compromises, interruptions or shutdowns of our systems, including those managed by third parties, whether intentional or inadvertent, could lead to delays in our business operations and, if significant or extreme, affect our results of operations. in addition, any interruption in the operation of our websites, particularly our e-commerce sites, could cause us to suffer reputational harm or to lose sales if customers are unable to access our site or purchase merchandise from us during such an interruption. we modify, update, and replace our systems and infrastructure from time to time, including by adding new hardware, software and applications; maintaining, updating or replacing legacy programs; converting to global systems; integrating new service providers and adding enhanced or new functionality, such as for cloud computing technologies and for the continued operation and development of our e-commerce businesses; and adding or integrating with new systems when we acquire new businesses. we also modify and change our procedures for, and add and change vendors and internal teams who assist us with designing, implementing and maintaining our systems. although we believe we are diligent in selecting systems, teams and vendors and implementing procedures to enable us to maintain the integrity of our systems when we implement, modify or replace them, there are inherent risks associated with implementing, modifying or replacing systems, with new or changed relationships and with changes from and integrations with acquisitions, including accurately capturing and maintaining data, efficiently testing and implementing changes in a timely manner, realizing the expected 14 benefit of the change and managing the potential disruption of the operation of the systems and diversion of internal teams attention as the changes are implemented. further, potential issues associated with implementing technology initiatives and the time and resources required in seeking to optimize the benefits of new elements of our systems and its infrastructure could reduce the efficiency of our operations in the short term. overall, the efficient operation and successful growth of our business depends upon our information systems, including our ability to operate, maintain and develop them effectively and a failure of those systems could disrupt our business, subject us to liability or otherwise impact our financial results. economic conditions, on a global level or in particular markets, may adversely affect our financial performance. global financial markets can experience volatility, disruption and credit contraction, which could adversely affect global economic conditions. turmoil in the financial and credit markets or other changes in economic conditions could adversely affect sources of liquidity available to us or our costs of capital and could adversely affect plan asset values and investment performance, and increase our pension liabilities, expenses and funding requirements and other related financial exposure with respect to company-sponsored and multiemployer pension plans. economic conditions, both on a global level and in particular markets, including unemployment, decreased disposable income and actual and perceived wealth, energy and health care costs, costs of oil, gas and other commodities, interest and tax rates and policies, weakness in the housing market, volatility in capital markets, decreased credit availability, inflation and deflation, as well as political or other factors beyond our control such as threats or possibilities of war, terrorism, global or national unrest, actual or threatened epidemics, and political instability may also have significant effects on consumer confidence and spending that would, in turn, affect retail sales. these conditions and factors could adversely affect discretionary consumer spending and, although we believe our flexible off-price model helps us react, they may adversely affect our sales, cash flows and results of operations and performance. adverse or unseasonable weather in the markets in which our stores operate or along our supply chain could adversely affect our operating results. both adverse and unseasonable weather, such as storms, severe cold or heat or unseasonable temperatures, even if not extreme, may affect customers buying patterns and willingness to shop certain categories or at all, and accordingly, can adversely affect the demand for the merchandise in our stores, particularly in apparel and seasonal merchandise. weather can also affect the ability to transport merchandise to our stores from our vendors, distribution and shipping centers or elsewhere in our supply chain efficiently or in a timely way. as a result, adverse or unseasonable weather could adversely affect our sales, increase markdowns and adversely affect our operating results. as our business is subject to seasonal influences, a decrease in sales or margins, a severe disruption or other significant event that impacts our business during the second half of the year could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results. our business is subject to seasonal influences. we generally realize higher levels of sales and earnings in the second half of the year, which includes the back-to-school and year-end holiday seasons. any decrease in sales or margins or any significant adverse event during this period could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our results of operations. our results may be adversely affected by serious disruptions or catastrophic events. unforeseen public health issues, such as pandemics and epidemics, natural or other disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes and other extreme weather and climate conditions, or fires, explosions and acts of war or terrorism could disrupt our operations or the operations of one or more of our vendors or of our supply chain or could severely damage or destroy one or more of our stores or distribution facilities located in the affected areas. day-to-day operations, including our ability to receive products from our vendors or transport products to our stores could be adversely affected, or we could be required to close stores or distribution centers in the affected areas or in areas served by affected distribution centers for a short or extended period of time. as a result, our business could be adversely affected. 15 damage to our corporate reputation or those of our retail banners could adversely affect our sales and operating results. we believe that building the brand reputation of our company and our retail banners is important to our continuing success. in the many different markets in which we do business, we work to build relationships with our customers through our various marketing campaigns and other activities. these relationships and our reputation are based, in part, on perceptions of subjective qualities, so incidents involving us, our employees, our policies, the merchandise that we carry or our industry more generally that erode trust or confidence could adversely affect our reputation and our business, particularly if the incidents result in rapid or significant adverse publicity or governmental inquiry. information about us, our retail banners, our employees, our policies, and the merchandise we sell, including our licensed or owned brands, publicized through traditional or digital media platforms and similar venues, including blogs, websites, and other forums for rapid, broad communications to an audience of consumers and other interested persons, may adversely affect our reputation and brand, even if the information is inaccurate, incomplete or unverified. the reputation of our company and our retail banners may be damaged by adverse events at the corporate level or at our retail banners, or by an associate acting outside of company policies in all, one or some of the markets in which we do business. similarly, challenges or reactions to action (or inaction) or perceived action (or inaction) by our company on issues like compliance related to social, product, labor and environmental standards or other sensitive topics, could harm our reputation. damage to the reputation of our company and our banners could result in declines in customer loyalty and sales; affect our vendor relationships, business development opportunities and associate retention; divert attention and resources from management, including to respond to inquiries or additional regulatory scrutiny; and otherwise adversely affect our results. quality, safety or other issues with merchandise we sell could damage our reputation, sales and financial results. various governmental authorities in the jurisdictions where we do business regulate the quality and safety of the merchandise we sell to consumers. regulations and standards in this area, including those related to the u.s. consumer product safety improvement act of 2008, state regulations like california proposition 65, and similar legislation in other countries in which we operate, impose restrictions and requirements on the merchandise we sell in our stores and through e-commerce. these regulations change from time to time and new federal, state, provincial or local regulations in the u.s. and other countries that may affect our business are contemplated and enacted with some regularity. if we or our merchandise vendors are unable to comply with regulatory requirements on a timely basis or at all, or to adequately monitor new regulations that may apply to existing or new merchandise categories or in new geographies, significant fines or penalties could be incurred or we could have to curtail some aspects of our sales or operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we rely on our vendors to provide quality merchandise that complies with applicable product safety laws and other applicable laws, but they may not comply with their obligations to do so. although our arrangements with our vendors frequently provide for indemnification for product liabilities, the vendors may fail to honor those obligations to an extent we consider sufficient or at all. customer concerns or issues with the quality and safety of merchandise, particularly with products subject to increased levels of regulation, or the genuineness of merchandise, regardless of whether verified or our fault, could cause damage to our reputation and could result in lost sales, uninsured claims or losses, merchandise recalls and increased costs, and regulatory, civil or criminal fines or penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. failure to comply with existing laws, regulations and orders or changes in existing laws, regulations and applicable accounting principles and interpretations could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance. we are subject to federal, state, provincial, regional and local laws, rules and regulations in various countries in which we operate, any of which may change from time to time, as well as orders and assurances. these legal, regulatory and administrative requirements collectively affect multiple aspects of our business, from the cost of providing health care and retirement benefits, workforce management, logistics, marketing, import/export, sourcing and manufacturing, tax, data protection and others. if we, or third parties that perform services on our 16 behalf, fail to comply with these laws, rules, regulations and orders, we may be subject to judgments, fines or other costs or penalties, which could materially adversely affect our operations and our financial results and condition. complying with applicable laws, rules and regulations and our own internal policies may also require us to spend additional time and resources to implement new procedures and financial and other controls, conduct audits, train associates and third parties on our compliance methods or take other actions, particularly as we continue to grow globally and enter new markets or countries, any of which could adversely impact our results. we must also comply with new and changing laws and regulations, new regulatory initiatives, evolving interpretation of existing laws by judicial and regulatory authorities, and reforms in jurisdictions where we do business. these changes could increase our costs of compliance or of doing business and could adversely affect our operating results, including such changes involving: labor and employment practices and benefits, including regarding labor unions and works councils; health and welfare and financial regulations; consumer protection and product safety; data protection and privacy; climate change, supply chain, energy and waste; internet regulations, including e-commerce, electronic communications and privacy; and protection of third party intellectual property rights. particularly in a dynamic regulatory environment, anticipated changes to laws and regulations may require us to invest in compliance efforts before changes are certain. further, applicable accounting principles and interpretations may change from time to time, and the changes could have material effects on our future or previously reported financial results. our expanding international operations expose us to risks inherent in operating in new countries. we have a significant retail presence in canada and in countries in europe and have established buying offices around the world. we have expanded our operations into additional countries in europe and into australia and our goal is to continue to expand our operations into other countries in the future. it can be costly and complex to establish, develop and maintain international operations and promote business in new international jurisdictions, which may differ significantly from other countries in which we currently operate. in addition to facing risks similar to our u.s. and current international operations, such as with regulations like the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, there are additional risks inherent in opening and developing operations in new countries. these additional risks include, among others, understanding the local retail climate and trends, local customs and cultures, seasonal differences, business practices and competitive conditions; complying with relevant laws, rules and regulations; developing the appropriate infrastructure; identifying suitable partners for local operations and for integration with our global operations and effectively communicating and implementing company policies and practices in new, possibly remote jurisdictions. there are also financial, regulatory and other risks associated with international operations, including currency exchange fluctuations; potentially adverse tax consequences; limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds outside of the country where earned; trade regulations; the risk of sudden policy or regulatory changes; the risk of political, economic and civil instability and labor unrest; and uncertainties regarding interpretation, application and enforceability of laws and agreements. any of these risks could adversely impact our operations, profitability or liquidity. we are subject to risks associated with sourcing merchandise from other countries and moving merchandise internationally. many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our vendors and, to a lesser extent, by us, in many countries outside of the country where the stores are located, particularly southeastern asia. where we are the 17 importer of record, we may be subject to regulatory or other requirements including those similar to requirements imposed upon the manufacturer of such products. we are subject to the various risks of sourcing merchandise from other countries, including moving merchandise internationally, such as: potential disruptions in manufacturing, logistics and supply; changes in duties, tariffs, trade restrictions, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise, including, for example, new potential tariffs and border adjustment taxes or changes resulting from brexit; transport capacity and costs; information technology challenges; problems in third-party distribution and warehousing and other interruptions of the supply chain; strikes, threats of strikes and other events affecting delivery; consumer perceptions of the safety or quality of imported merchandise; product and international trade compliance with laws and regulations of the destination country; compliance with laws and regulations including changing labor, environmental, international trade and other laws in those countries and those concerning ethical business practices, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act; product liability claims from customers or penalties from government agencies relating to products that are recalled, defective or otherwise noncompliant or alleged to be harmful; intellectual property enforcement and infringement issues; concerns about human rights, working conditions and other labor rights and conditions in countries where merchandise is produced; concerns about transparent sourcing and supply chains; currency exchange rates, financial or economic instability; and political or other disruptions in countries from, to or through which merchandise is imported. these and other factors relating to international trade and imported merchandise beyond our control could affect the availability and the price of our inventory and our operating costs. furthermore, although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations relating to international operations and importing merchandise, there can be no assurance that our associates and our contractors, agents, vendors or other third parties with whom we do business or to whom we outsource business operations will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies, which could subject us to liability and could adversely affect our reputation, operations or operating results. our results may be adversely affected by reduced availability or increases in the price of oil or other fuels, raw materials and other commodities or other increases in utility, transportation or logistics costs. energy and fuel costs can fluctuate dramatically and, at times, have resulted in significant cost increases, particularly for the price of oil and gasoline. an increase in the price of oil increases our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and costs to purchase our products from suppliers. although we typically enter into derivative instruments designed to manage a portion of our transportation costs (a hedging strategy), any such strategy may not be effective or sufficient and could result in increased operating costs. increased regulation related to environmental costs, including cap and trade, carbon taxes or other emissions management systems could also adversely affect our costs of doing business, including utility, transportation and logistics costs. similarly, other commodity prices can fluctuate dramatically, such as the cost of cotton and synthetic fabrics, which at times have risen significantly. such increases can increase the cost of merchandise, which could adversely affect our performance through potentially reduced consumer demand or reduced margins. 18 fluctuations in currency exchange rates may lead to lower revenues and earnings. sales made by our stores outside the united states are denominated in the currency of the country in which the store is located, and changes in currency exchange rates affect the translation of the sales and earnings of these businesses into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. because of this, movements in currency exchange rates have had and are expected to continue to have a significant impact on our consolidated and segment results from time to time. changes in currency exchange rates can also increase the cost of inventory purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the local currency of the business buying the merchandise. when exchange rates change significantly in a short period or move unfavorably over an extended period, as in recent years, it can be difficult for us to adjust retail prices accordingly, and gross margin can be adversely affected. in addition, a significant amount of merchandise we offer for sale is made in china and accordingly, a revaluation of chinese currency, or increased market flexibility in the exchange rate for that currency, increasing its value relative to the u.s. dollar or currencies in which our stores are located, could be significant. additionally, we routinely enter into inventory-related derivative instruments (a hedging strategy) to mitigate the impact of currency exchange rates on merchandise margins of merchandise purchases by our segments denominated in currencies other than their local currencies. in accordance with gaap, we evaluate the fair value of these derivative instruments and make mark-to-market adjustments at the end of each accounting period. these adjustments are of a much greater magnitude when there is significant volatility in currency exchange rates and may have a significant impact on our earnings. although we implement foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in currency exchange rates, we expect that currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations from time to time. in addition, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our earnings and operating results if a counterparty to one of our hedging arrangements fails to perform. our quarterly operating results fluctuate and may fall short of prior periods, our projections or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could adversely affect our stock price. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter at points in the past, and they may do so in the future. if we fail to increase our results over prior periods, to achieve our projected results or to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decline, and the decrease in the stock price may be disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance. results may be affected by various factors, including those described in these risk factors. we maintain a forecasting process that seeks to project sales and align expenses. if we do not control costs or appropriately adjust costs to actual results, or if actual results differ significantly from our forecast, our financial performance could be adversely affected. in addition, if we do not repurchase the number of shares we contemplated pursuant to our stock repurchase programs, our earnings per share may be adversely affected. if we engage in mergers or acquisitions or investments in new businesses, or divest, close or consolidate any of our current businesses, our business will be subject to additional risks. we may acquire new businesses (as we did with trade secret in fiscal 2016 and stp in fiscal 2013), invest in or enter into joint ventures with other businesses, develop new businesses internally (as with our new home store concept) and divest, close or consolidate businesses. failure to execute on mergers, acquisitions, investments, divestitures, closings and consolidations in a satisfactory manner could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. acquisition, investment or divestiture activities may divert attention of management from operating the existing businesses, and we may not effectively evaluate target companies, investments or investment partners or assess the risks, benefits and cost of buying, investing in or closing businesses or of the integration of acquired businesses, all of which can be difficult, time-consuming and dilutive. these activities may not meet our performance and other expectations and may expose us to unexpected or greater-than-expected costs, liabilities and risks. in addition, we have recorded intangible assets and goodwill and the value of the tradenames in connection with our acquisitions of trade secret and stp and 19 may similarly do so in the future in connection with other acquisitions. if we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions, we may be required to impair some or all of the goodwill associated with an acquisition, which could adversely impact our results of operations and balance sheet. divestitures, closings and consolidations could involve risks such as significant costs and obligations of closure, including exposure on leases, owned real estate and other contractual, employment, pension and severance obligations, and potential liabilities that may arise under law as a result of the disposition or the subsequent failure of an acquirer. our results may be materially adversely affected by the outcomes of litigation, legal proceedings and other legal or regulatory matters. we are involved, or may in the future become involved, in legal proceedings, regulatory reviews, audits and other legal matters. these may involve inquiries, investigations, lawsuits and other proceedings by local, provincial, state and federal governmental entities (in the united states and other countries) and private plaintiffs, including with respect to employment and employee benefits including classification, employment rights, discrimination, wage and hour and retaliation; whistle blower claims; tax; securities; disclosure; real estate; tort; business practices; consumer protection; privacy/data security; product safety and compliance; advertising; and intellectual property. there continue to be a number of employment-related and consumer protection lawsuits, including putative class actions, in the united states, and we are subject to these types of suits. we cannot predict the results of legal and regulatory proceedings with certainty, and actual results may differ from any reserves we establish estimating the probable outcome. regardless of merit or outcome, litigation can be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and may cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations could expose us to significant defense costs, fines, penalties and liability to private parties and governmental entities for monetary recoveries and other amounts and attorneys fees and/or require us to change aspects of our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. tax matters could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our effective income tax rate and future tax liability could be adversely affected by numerous factors including the results of tax audits and examinations, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory income tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory income tax rates, changes in income tax rates, changes in transfer pricing, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in applicable tax legislation, regulations and treaties, exposure to additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties, and changes in accounting principles and interpretations relating to tax matters, any of which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition in future periods. significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our worldwide provision and accruals for taxes, and actual results may differ from our estimations. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns and reports by federal, state, provincial and local tax authorities in the u.s. and foreign countries, and the examining authorities may challenge positions we take. we are engaged in various proceedings, which are at various stages, with such authorities with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these proceedings to determine the adequacy and appropriateness of our provision for income taxes, and increase and decrease our provision as a result of these assessments. however, the developments in and actual results of proceedings or the result of rulings by or settlements with tax authorities and courts or due to changes in facts, law or legal interpretations, expiration of applicable statutes of limitations or other resolutions of tax positions could differ from the amounts we have accrued for such proceedings in either a positive or a negative manner, which could materially affect our effective income tax rate in a given financial period, the amount of taxes we are required to pay and our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to tax audits and examinations for payroll, value added, sales-based and other taxes relating to our businesses. 20 our real estate leases generally obligate us for long periods, which subjects us to financial risks. we lease virtually all of our store locations, generally for an initial term of 10 years, with options to renew the term, in the u.s. and canada or an initial term of 10 to 15 years in europe. in addition, we either own or lease for long periods our primary distribution centers and administrative offices. accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with leasing and owning real estate, which can adversely affect our results. while we have the right to terminate some of our leases under specified conditions, including by making specified payments, we may not be able to terminate a particular lease if or when we would like to do so. if we decide to close stores, we are generally required to continue to perform obligations under the applicable leases, which generally include, among other things, paying rent and operating expenses for the balance of the lease term, or paying to exercise rights to terminate, and the performance of any of these obligations may be expensive. when we assign leases or sublease space to third parties, or if we sell a business, we can remain liable on the lease obligations if the assignee or sublessee does not perform (as was the case with some of our former operations). in addition, when the lease term for the stores in our ongoing operations expire, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores or to relocate stores within a market on less favorable terms. we depend upon strong cash flows from our operations to supply capital to fund our operations, growth, stock repurchases and dividends and interest and debt repayment. our business depends upon our operations to continue to generate strong cash flow to supply capital to support our general operating activities, to fund our growth and our return of cash to stockholders through our stock repurchase programs and dividends, and to pay our interest and debt repayments. our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities or to repatriate cash from our international operations in a manner that is cost effective could adversely affect our growth plans and financial performance including our earnings per share. we borrow on occasion to finance our activities and if financing were not available to us in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms when needed, it could also adversely affect our financial performance. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk tjx is exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of business. some potential market risks are discussed below: foreign currency exchange risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk on the translation of our foreign operations into the u.s. dollar and on purchases of goods in currencies that are not the local currencies of stores where the goods are sold and on intercompany debt and interest payable between and among our domestic and international operations. our currency risk primarily relates to our activity in the canadian dollar, british pound and euro. as more fully described in note f to our consolidated financial statements, we use derivative financial instruments to hedge a portion of certain merchandise purchase commitments, primarily at our international operations, and a portion of our intercompany transactions with and within our international operations. we enter into derivative contracts only for the purpose of hedging the underlying economic exposure. we utilize currency forward and swap contracts, designed to offset the gains or losses on the underlying exposures. the contracts are executed with banks we believe are creditworthy and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. our foreign exchange risk management policy prohibits us from using derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and we do not use any leveraged derivative financial instruments. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates applied to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above as well as the translation of our foreign operations into our reporting currency. as of january 28, 2017 and january 30, 2016, the analysis indicated that such an adverse movement would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position 37 but could have reduced our pre-tax income for the fiscal year by approximately $65 million and $69 million, respectively. equity price and other market risk the assets of our funded qualified pension plan, a portion of which are equity securities, are subject to the risks and uncertainties of the financial markets. we invest the pension assets (described further in note j to the consolidated financial statements) in a manner that attempts to minimize and control our exposure to market uncertainties. investments, in general, are exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit, and overall market volatility risks. a significant decline in the financial markets could adversely affect the value of our pension plan assets and the funded status of our pension plan, resulting in increased required contributions to the plan or other plan-related liabilities. our pension plan investment policy prohibits the use of derivatives for speculative purposes.risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully, in connection with all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks that follow are those that we think, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements. failure to execute our opportunistic buying strategy and inventory management could adversely affect our results. while opportunistic buying, operating with lean inventory levels and frequent inventory turns are key elements of our off-price business strategy, they subject us to risks related to the pricing, quantity, mix, nature and timing of inventory flowing to our stores. our merchants are in the marketplace frequently, as much of our merchandise is purchased for the current or immediately upcoming season, and our opportunistic buying places considerable discretion with them. our business model expects them to react to frequently changing opportunities and trends in the market, assess the desirability and value of merchandise and generally make determinations of how and what we source as well as when we source it. if we do not obtain the right merchandise at the right times, in the right quantities, at the right prices and in the right mix, our customer traffic, as well as our sales and margins, could be adversely affected. we base our purchases of inventory, in part, on our sales forecasts. if our sales forecasts do not match customer demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and need to take markdowns on excess or slow-moving inventory, leading to decreased profit margins, or we may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, leading to lost sales, either of which could adversely affect our financial performance. if we are unable to generally purchase inventory at prices sufficiently below prices paid by conventional retailers, we may not be able to maintain an overall pricing differential to full-price retailers, including department, specialty, and major online retailers, and our ability to attract customers or sustain our margins may be adversely affected. we may not achieve this pricing differential at various times or in some reporting segments, chains or geographies, which could adversely affect our results. similarly, we must also properly execute our inventory management strategy of distributing the right merchandise to the right stores in the right quantities at the right time. to respond to customer demand and effectively manage pricing and markdowns, we need to appropriately allocate and deliver merchandise to our stores, maintain an appropriate mix and level of inventory in each store, and appropriately change the allocation of floor space at our stores among product categories. if we are not able to do so, our ability to attract and retain customers and our results could be adversely affected. failure to continue to expand our business and operations successfully or to manage our substantial size and scale effectively could adversely affect our financial results. our growth strategy includes successfully expanding our off-price model within our current markets and into new geographic regions, product lines, and channels and, as appropriate, adding new businesses, whether by 11 development, investment or acquisition. there are significant risks associated with our ability to continue to expand successfully and managing the implementation of this growth effectively. if any aspect of our expansion strategy does not achieve the success we expect, in whole or in part, we may fail to meet our financial performance expectations, be required to increase our investment, slow our planned growth or close stores or operations. for example, if we are not able to find and lease appropriate real estate on attractive terms in the locations where we seek to open stores, we may need to slow our planned growth in those areas. similarly, new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores, whether in current or new markets, and adding stores or banners to existing markets may otherwise adversely affect our sales and profitability. further, our substantial size can make it challenging to manage our complex operations effectively and to maintain appropriate internal resources and third party providers to support our business effectively. these challenges may increase as we grow our business, adding pressure to management and to various functions across our business, including administration, systems, merchandising, store operations, distribution, logistics, and compliance, as well as putting pressure on appropriately staffing and training associates in these areas as we grow and/or managing appropriate third party providers to support these areas. the large size and scale of our operations, our multiple banners and locations across the u.s., canada, europe and australia and the autonomy afforded to the banners in some aspects of the business also increases the risk that our systems, controls, practices and policies may not be implemented effectively or consistently throughout our company and that information may not be appropriately shared across our operations. these risks may increase as we continue to grow, particularly if we expand into additional countries. if business information is not shared effectively, or if we are otherwise unable to manage our size or growth effectively, our business may be adversely affected or we may need to reduce our rate of expansion of one or more operations or otherwise curtail growth in one or more markets, which may adversely affect our success in executing our business goals and adversely impact our sales and results. failure to identify consumer trends and preferences to meet customer demand in new or existing markets or channels could negatively impact our performance. as our success depends on our ability to meet customer demand and expectations, we work to identify consumer trends and preferences on an ongoing basis and to offer inventory and a shopping experience that meets those trends and preferences. however, doing so effectively and on a timely basis across our diverse merchandise categories and in each of the many markets in the u.s., canada, europe and australia in which we do business is challenging. trends and preferences in markets may differ from what we anticipate. although our business model allows us greater flexibility than many traditional retailers to meet consumer preferences and trends, for example by expanding and contracting merchandise categories in response to consumers changing tastes, we may not successfully do so, which could add difficulty in attracting new customers, retaining existing customers, encouraging frequent visits and adversely affect our results. customers may also have expectations about how they shop in stores or through e-commerce or more generally engage with businesses across different channels (through technology including internet-based and other digital or mobile channels or particular forms of social media outlets), which may vary across demographics and may evolve rapidly. overall consumer spending online also continues to grow. meeting these expectations effectively involves identifying the right opportunities and making the right investments at the right time and with the right speed, among other things, and failure to do so may impact our financial results. if we fail to successfully implement our various marketing efforts or if our competitors are more effective with their programs than we are, our revenue or results of operations may be adversely affected. customer traffic and demand for our merchandise may be influenced by our marketing efforts. although we use marketing to drive customer traffic through various media including television, radio, print, outdoor, digital/social media, email, mobile and direct mail, some of our competitors expend more for their programs than we do, or use different approaches than we do, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. further, we may not effectively implement strategies with respect to rapidly evolving internet-based and other digital or mobile communication channels, including social media. our programs may not be or remain effective or could require increased expenditures, which could have a significant adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. 12 we operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to compete effectively. the retail apparel and home fashion businesses are highly competitive. we compete with local, regional, national and international retailers that sell apparel, home fashions and other merchandise we sell, including in stores, through e-commerce, catalogues or other media or channels. some of our competitors are larger than we are or have more experience in selling certain product lines than we do. new competitors frequently enter the market and existing competitors enter or increase their presence in the markets in which we operate, expand their merchandise offerings, add new sales channels or change their pricing strategies, all of which affect the competitive landscape. consumer spending online has increased and may continue to increase, while our business is primarily in stores. we compete on the basis of various factors affecting value, meaning the combination of brand, fashion, price, and quality; merchandise selection and freshness; banner name recognition and appeal; both in-store and online service and shopping experience; and store location. if we fail to compete effectively, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. failure to employ quality associates in appropriate numbers and to retain key associates and management, could adversely affect our performance. our performance depends on recruiting, hiring, developing, training and retaining talented associates in key areas such as buying and management as well as quality store, systems, distribution center and other associates in large numbers. we must constantly recruit new associates to fill entry level and part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. availability and skill of associates may differ across markets in which we do business and in new markets we enter, and we may be unable to manage our labor needs effectively. in addition, because of the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must provide significant internal training and development for key associates across the company, including within our buying organization. similar to other retailers, we face challenges in securing and retaining sufficient talent in management and other key areas for many reasons, including competition in the retail industry and for talent in various geographic markets. if we do not effectively attract qualified individuals, train them in our business model, support their development and retain them in sufficient numbers and at appropriate levels of the organization, our growth could be limited and our performance could be adversely affected. labor costs, including pension and healthcare costs, and other challenges from our large workforce may adversely affect our results and profitability. we have a large workforce, and our ability to meet our labor needs and control labor costs is subject to various factors such as unemployment levels; prevailing wage rates and benefit levels, minimum wage laws and benefits requirements and other market pressures on wages and benefits; changing demographics; economic conditions; interest rate changes; economic, demographic and other actuarial assumptions; the costs of providing and managing retirement, health and other employee benefits, including health and insurance costs; and a dynamic regulatory environment, including health care legislation, immigration law and policy, and governmental labor, employment and employee benefits programs and requirements. changes to one or more of these factors could increase our labor costs. increased labor costs may adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, when wage rates or benefit levels increase in a market, increasing our wages or benefits may negatively impact our earnings as they did during the past three fiscal years, while failing to increase our wages or benefits competitively or reducing our wages or benefits, could result in a decline in our ability to attract or retain associates or in the quality of our workforce, causing our customer service or performance to suffer, which could impact our results. many associates in our distribution centers are members of unions and therefore we are subject to the risk of labor actions of various kinds as well as risks and potential material expenses associated with multiemployer plans, including from pension plan underfunding, benefit cuts, increased contribution requirements, changes in plan terms, withdrawal liability, or insolvency of other participating employers or governmental insurance programs. other associates in europe are members of works councils, which may subject us to additional requirements, actions or expense. 13 compromises of our data security could materially harm our reputation and business. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect, store, process and transmit confidential business information and certain information relating to individuals, such as our customers, associates and vendors (including, for example, customer payment card and check information and other personal data). we rely in part on commercially available systems, software, hardware, services, tools and monitoring to provide security for collection, storage, processing, and transmission of personal and/or confidential information. as with many other companies in the retail industry, we are subject to attempts to compromise our data security. for example, computer hackers have attempted and we expect will continue to attempt to penetrate our computer systems or those of third parties with whom we work or to whom we outsource business operations. if successful, such computer hackers may further attempt to misappropriate personal information or confidential business information and/or to disrupt our business operations. while we have taken steps designed to further strengthen the security of our computer systems since the unauthorized intrusion(s) into our network discovered late in 2006, in which we believe customer data were stolen, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer a future data security compromise, that unauthorized parties will not gain access to the information that we collect, store, process or transmit or otherwise interfere with our systems, or that any such data security compromise or unauthorized access will be discovered in a timely way or resolved without a disruption to our business. in addition, an associate, contractor or third party with whom we work or to whom we outsource business operations may fail to monitor their or our systems effectively, may fail to maintain appropriate safeguards, may misuse the personal or confidential information to which they have access, may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to access or misappropriate such types of information, may purposefully or inadvertently allow unauthorized access to our systems or to personal or confidential information or may otherwise disrupt our business operations. advances in computer and software technology and capabilities, rapid changes in the sources, methods and targets of cyberattacks (for example, malware, ransomware and phishing attacks) and the use of devices to tamper with payment entry devices (such as skimmers and shimmers), and the increasing sophistication of cyber criminals generally increase the risk of a data compromise or business disruption. compromise of our data security or that of third parties with whom we work or to whom we outsource business operations, including through cyber-attacks or other external or internal methods or error, failure to prevent or mitigate the loss of personal or business information and delays in detecting any such compromise or loss could, among other adverse impacts to our business, disrupt our operations; damage our reputation and decrease our customers willingness to shop in our stores or online; impact our ability to attract and retain customers; violate applicable laws, regulations, orders and agreements; and subject us to additional costs and liabilities which could be material. failure to operate information systems and to implement new technologies effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability. we rely extensively on various information systems, including data centers, telecommunications systems, hardware, software and applications to manage many aspects of our business, including to process and record transactions in our stores and our e-commerce sites; to manage our customer, vendor and associate data; to enable effective communication systems; to source, plan and track inventory; to manage logistics; to generate performance and financial reports; to comply with regulatory requirements and to otherwise operate our e-commerce sites. we are dependent on the integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems and related back-up systems. supporting these internal and external systems requires a number of resources, including effective and qualified, and in some cases, specialized, teams. as we grow and as our systems evolve, we must continue to hire, train, manage and retain these teams, including those needed to support our customized and legacy systems in an effective way. our information systems, and the third-party systems we rely on, may be subjected to damage or interruption from a number of causes, including power outages; system failures; cyberattacks (including malware, ransomware and phishing attacks) and devices to tamper with our payment or other systems (including skimmers and shimmers); catastrophic events; and design or usage errors by our associates, contractors or third party service providers on which we rely. although we have taken steps designed to reduce the risk of these events occurring, there can be no guarantee that we or a third party on 14 which we rely will not suffer one of these events. our approach to disaster recovery and business continuity planning may not be adequate and any compromises, interruptions or shutdowns of our systems, including those managed and/or operated by third parties, whether intentional or inadvertent, could lead to delays in our business operations and, if significant or extreme, affect our results of operations, cause us to suffer reputational harm, or result in liability. we modify, update, and replace our systems and infrastructure from time to time, including by adding new hardware, software and applications; maintaining, updating or replacing legacy programs; converting to global systems; integrating new service providers; adding enhanced or new functionality, such as cloud computing technologies and e-commerce solutions; and adding or integrating with new systems when we acquire new businesses. we also modify and update our procedures for, and add vendors and internal teams who assist us with, designing, implementing and maintaining our systems and infrastructure. there is a risk of business disruption, liability and reputational damage associated with these actions, including from not accurately capturing and maintaining data, efficiently testing and implementing changes, realizing the expected benefit of the change and managing the potential disruption of the actions and diversion of internal teams attention as the changes are implemented. further, potential issues associated with implementing technology initiatives and the time and resources required in seeking to optimize the benefits of new elements of our systems and its infrastructure could reduce the efficiency of our operations in the short term. the efficient operation and successful growth of our business depends upon our information systems, including our ability to operate, maintain and develop them effectively. a failure of those systems could disrupt our business, subject us to liability, damage our reputation, or otherwise impact our financial results. economic conditions, on a global level or in particular markets, may adversely affect our financial performance. global financial markets can experience volatility, disruption and credit contraction, which could adversely affect global economic conditions. turmoil in the financial and credit markets or other changes in economic conditions could adversely affect sources of liquidity available to us or our costs of capital and could adversely affect plan asset values and investment performance, and increase our pension liabilities, expenses and funding requirements and other related financial exposure with respect to company-sponsored and multiemployer pension plans. our strategies for managing these financial risks and exposures may not be effective or sufficient. economic conditions, both on a global level and in particular markets, including unemployment; decreased disposable income and actual and perceived wealth; energy and health care costs; costs of oil, gas and other commodities; interest and tax rates and policies; weakness in the housing market; volatility in capital markets; decreased credit availability; inflation and deflation, as well as political or other factors beyond our control such as threats or possibilities of war, terrorism, global or national unrest; actual or threatened epidemics; geopolitical instability or uncertainty; and regulatory volatility or uncertainty, including in areas like international trade (for example, discussions regarding brexit) may also have significant effects on consumer confidence and spending that would, in turn, affect retail sales. these conditions and factors could adversely affect discretionary consumer spending and, although we believe our flexible off-price model helps us react, they may adversely affect our sales, cash flows and results of operations and performance. adverse or unseasonable weather in the markets in which our stores operate or along our supply chain could adversely affect our operating results. both adverse and unseasonable weather, such as storms, severe cold or heat or unseasonable temperatures (even if not extreme) may affect customers buying patterns and willingness to shop certain categories we offer or at all, and accordingly, can adversely affect the demand for the merchandise in our stores, particularly in apparel and seasonal merchandise. as discussed further below, adverse weather can also affect the efficient or timely transportation of merchandise to our distribution and shipping centers, stores and e-commerce customers or elsewhere along our supply chain, and may impact transportation to or from our stores and other facilities. as a result, adverse or unseasonable weather could adversely affect our sales, increase markdowns, impact customer satisfaction and adversely affect our operating results. 15 our results may be adversely affected by serious disruptions or catastrophic events. natural or other disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes and other extreme weather; climate conditions; unforeseen public health issues, such as pandemics and epidemics; or fires, explosions and acts of war or terrorism could disrupt our operations in a number of ways, including severely damaging or destroying one or more of our stores, distribution facilities or data centers, or could disrupt the operations of one or more of our vendors or other parts of our supply chain located in the affected areas. day-to-day operations, including our ability to receive products from our vendors or transport products to our stores or to our e-commerce customers could be adversely affected, transportation to and from our stores (by customers or associates) could be limited, or we could be required to close stores or distribution centers in the affected areas or in areas served by affected distribution centers for a short or extended period of time, as we did in areas of the u.s., including puerto rico, after severe hurricanes during fiscal 2018. as a result, our business could be adversely affected. damage to our corporate reputation or those of our retail banners could adversely affect our sales and operating results. we believe that building the brand reputation of our company and our retail banners is important to our continuing success. in the many different markets in which we do business, we work to build relationships with our customers through our various marketing campaigns and other activities. these relationships and our reputation are based, in part, on perceptions of subjective qualities. incidents involving us, our retail banners, our executives or other associates, our policies and practices, the merchandise and brands (including our licensed or owned brands) that we carry or our industry more generally that erode trust or confidence could adversely affect our reputation and our business, particularly if the incidents result in rapid or significant adverse publicity or governmental inquiry. information about us, our retail banners, our executives and other associates, our policies and practices, our third party providers, and the merchandise and brands we sell, including our licensed or owned brands, that is publicized through traditional or digital media platforms and similar venues, including blogs, websites, and other forums for rapid, broad communications to an audience of consumers and other interested persons, may adversely affect our reputation and brand, even if the information is inaccurate, incomplete or unverified. the reputation of our company and our retail banners may be damaged in all, one or some of the markets in which we do business, by adverse events at the corporate level or at our retail banners, or by an associate acting outside of company policies and practices. similarly, challenges or reactions to action (or inaction), perceived action (or inaction), by our company on issues like social policies, merchandising, compliance related to social, product, labor and environmental standards or other sensitive topics, and any perceived lack of transparency about such matters, could harm our reputation, particularly as expectations of companies and of companies corporate responsibility may continue to change. damage to the reputation of our company and our banners could result in declines in customer loyalty and sales; affect our vendor relationships, business development opportunities and associate retention; divert attention and resources from management, including to respond to inquiries or additional regulatory scrutiny; and otherwise adversely affect our results. quality, safety or other issues with merchandise we sell could damage our reputation, sales and financial results. various governmental authorities in the jurisdictions where we do business regulate the quality and safety of the merchandise we sell to consumers. regulations and standards in this area, including those related to the u.s. consumer product safety improvement act of 2008 and the u.s. food safety modernization act, state regulations like california proposition 65, and similar legislation in other countries in which we operate, impose restrictions and requirements on the merchandise we sell in our stores and through e-commerce. these regulations change from time to time and new federal, state, provincial or local regulations in the u.s. and other countries that may affect our business are contemplated and enacted with some regularity. if we or our merchandise vendors are unable to comply with regulatory requirements on a timely basis or at all, or to adequately monitor new regulations that may apply to existing or new merchandise categories or in new geographies, we could incur significant fines or penalties or we could have to curtail some aspects of our sales or operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we rely on our vendors to 16 provide quality merchandise that complies with applicable product safety laws, labeling requirements and other applicable laws, but they may not comply with their obligations to do so. although our arrangements with our vendors frequently provide for indemnification for product liabilities, the vendors may fail to honor those obligations to an extent we consider sufficient or at all. concerns or issues with the quality and safety of merchandise raised publicly, particularly with products subject to increased levels of regulation, or the genuineness of merchandise, regardless of whether verified or our fault, could cause damage to our reputation and could result in lost sales, uninsured claims or losses, merchandise recalls and increased costs, and regulatory, civil or criminal fines or penalties, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. failure to comply with laws, rules, regulations and orders and applicable accounting principles and interpretations could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance. we are subject to federal, state, provincial, regional and local laws, rules and regulations as well as government orders in various countries in which we operate. these legal, regulatory and administrative requirements collectively affect multiple aspects of our business, including the cost of providing health care and retirement benefits, workforce management, logistics, marketing, import/export, sourcing and manufacturing, tax, data protection and others. if we, or third parties that perform services on our behalf, fail to comply with applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders, we may be subject to judgments, fines or other costs or penalties, which could adversely affect our operations and our financial results and condition. complying with applicable laws, rules and regulations and our own internal policies may also require us to spend additional time and resources to implement new procedures and financial and other controls, conduct audits, train associates and third parties on our compliance methods or take other actions, particularly as we continue to grow globally and enter new markets or countries, any of which could adversely impact our results. we must also comply with new and changing laws, rules and regulations, evolving interpretation of existing laws by judicial and regulatory authorities, and reforms in jurisdictions where we do business. these changes could increase our costs of compliance or of doing business and could adversely affect our operating results, including such changes involving: labor and employment practices and benefits, including regarding labor unions and works councils; health and welfare and financial regulations; consumer protection and product safety; data protection and privacy, such as to comply with, or fines and penalties related to, the general data protection regulation in europe; climate change, supply chain, energy and waste; internet regulations, including e-commerce, electronic communications and privacy; and protection of third party intellectual property rights. particularly in a dynamic regulatory environment, anticipated changes to laws and regulations may require us to invest in compliance efforts before changes are certain. further, applicable accounting principles and interpretations may change from time to time, and the changes could have material effects on our future or previously reported financial results. our expanding international operations expose us to risks inherent in operating in new countries. we have a significant retail presence in canada and in countries in europe and operate buying offices around the world. we have expanded our operations into australia and our goal is to continue to expand our operations into other countries in the future. it can be costly and complex to establish, develop and maintain international operations and promote business in new international jurisdictions, which may differ significantly from other countries in which we currently operate. 17 in addition to facing risks similar to our u.s. and current international operations, such as with regulations like the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, there are additional risks inherent in opening and developing operations in new countries. these additional risks include, among others, understanding the local retail climate and trends, local customs and cultures, seasonal differences, business practices and competitive conditions; complying with relevant laws, rules and regulations; developing the appropriate infrastructure; identifying suitable partners for local operations and for integration with our global operations and effectively communicating and implementing company policies and practices in new, possibly remote jurisdictions. there are also financial, regulatory and other risks associated with international operations, including currency exchange fluctuations; potentially adverse tax consequences; limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds outside of the country where earned; trade regulations; the risk of sudden policy or regulatory changes; the risk of political, economic and civil instability and labor unrest; and uncertainties regarding interpretation, application and enforceability of laws and agreements. any of these risks could adversely impact our operations, profitability or liquidity. we are subject to risks associated with sourcing merchandise from other countries and moving merchandise internationally. many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our vendors and, to a lesser extent, by us, in many locations outside of the country where the particular store is located, particularly southeastern asia. where we are the importer of record, we may be subject to regulatory or other requirements, including those similar to requirements imposed upon the manufacturer of such products. more generally, we are subject to various risks of sourcing merchandise from other countries, including moving merchandise internationally, such as: potential disruptions in manufacturing and supply; changes in duties, tariffs, trade restrictions, sanctions, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise, including, for example, new potential tariffs and border adjustment taxes, changes to the north american free trade agreement or changes resulting from brexit; transport capacity and costs; information technology challenges; problems in third-party distribution and warehousing, logistics, transportation and other supply chain interruptions; strikes, threats of strikes and other events affecting delivery; consumer perceptions of the safety or quality of imported merchandise; product and international trade compliance with laws and regulations of the destination country; compliance with laws and regulations including changing labor, environmental, international trade and other laws in those countries and those concerning ethical business practices, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act; product liability claims from customers or penalties from government agencies relating to products that are recalled, defective or otherwise noncompliant or alleged to be harmful; intellectual property enforcement and infringement issues; concerns about human rights, working conditions and other labor rights and conditions in countries where merchandise is produced; concerns about transparent sourcing and supply chains; currency exchange rates, financial or economic instability; and political or other disruptions in countries from, to or through which merchandise is imported. these and other factors relating to international trade and imported merchandise beyond our control could affect the availability and the price of our inventory and our operating costs. furthermore, although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations relating to 18 international operations and importing merchandise, there can be no assurance that our associates and our contractors, agents, vendors or other third parties with whom we do business or to whom we outsource business operations will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies, which could subject us to liability and could adversely affect our reputation, operations or operating results. our results may be adversely affected by reduced availability of, or increases in, the price of oil or other fuels, increased costs of other commodities, or other increases in utility, transportation or logistics costs. energy and fuel costs can fluctuate dramatically and, at times, have resulted in significant cost increases, particularly for the price of oil and gasoline. an increase in the price of oil increases our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and costs to purchase our products from suppliers. although we typically enter into derivative instruments designed to manage a portion of our transportation costs (a hedging strategy), any such strategy may not be effective or sufficient and could result in increased operating costs. increased regulation related to environmental costs, including cap and trade, carbon taxes or other emissions management systems could also adversely affect our costs of doing business, including utility, transportation and logistics costs, as could other shortages or disruptions impacting transportation. for example, at the end of fiscal 2018, increased freight cost related to labor and equipment shortages, as well as other factors, had an impact on our margins. similarly, other commodity prices can fluctuate dramatically. such increases can increase the cost of merchandise, which could adversely affect our performance through potentially reduced consumer demand or reduced margins. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may lead to lower revenues and earnings. sales made by our stores outside the united states are denominated in the currency of the country in which the store is located, and changes in currency exchange rates affect the translation of the sales and earnings of these businesses into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. because of this, movements in currency exchange rates have had and are expected to continue to have a significant impact on our consolidated and segment results from time to time. changes in currency exchange rates can also increase the cost of inventory purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the local currency of the business buying the merchandise. when exchange rates change significantly in a short period or move unfavorably over an extended period, as in recent years, it can be difficult for us to adjust retail prices accordingly, and gross margin can be adversely affected. in addition, a significant amount of merchandise we offer for sale is made in china and accordingly, a revaluation of chinese currency, or increased market flexibility in the exchange rate for that currency, increasing its value relative to the u.s. dollar or currencies in which our stores are located, could be significant. additionally, we routinely enter into inventory-related derivative instruments (a hedging strategy) to mitigate the impact of currency exchange rates on merchandise margins of merchandise purchases by our segments denominated in currencies other than their local currencies. in accordance with gaap, we evaluate the fair value of these derivative instruments and make mark-to-market adjustments at the end of each accounting period. these adjustments are of a much greater magnitude when there is significant volatility in currency exchange rates and may have a significant impact on our earnings. although we implement foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in currency exchange rates, we expect that currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations from time to time. in addition, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our earnings and operating results if a counterparty to one of our hedging arrangements fails to perform. our quarterly operating results fluctuate and may fall short of prior periods, our projections or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could adversely affect our stock price. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter at points in the past, and they may do so in the future. if we fail to increase our results over prior periods, to achieve our projected results or to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decline, and the decrease in the stock price may be disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance. results may be affected by various factors, 19 including those described in these risk factors. we maintain a forecasting process that seeks to plan sales and align expenses. if we do not control costs or appropriately adjust costs to actual results, or if actual results differ significantly from our forecast, our financial performance could be adversely affected. in addition, if we do not repurchase the number of shares we contemplated pursuant to our stock repurchase programs, our earnings per share may be adversely affected. if we engage in mergers or acquisitions or investments in new businesses, or divest, close or consolidate any of our current businesses, our business will be subject to additional risks. we may acquire new businesses (as we did with trade secret in fiscal 2016 and stp in fiscal 2013), invest in or enter into joint ventures with other businesses, develop new businesses internally (as with homesense, our new u.s. home store concept) and divest, close or consolidate businesses. failure to execute on mergers, acquisitions, investments, divestitures, closings and consolidations in a satisfactory manner could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. acquisition, investment or divestiture activities may divert attention of management from operating the existing businesses, and we may not effectively evaluate target companies, investments or investment partners or assess the risks, benefits and cost of buying, investing in or closing businesses or of the integration of acquired businesses, all of which can be difficult, time-consuming and dilutive. these activities may not meet our performance and other expectations and may expose us to unexpected or greater-than-expected costs, liabilities and risks. in addition, we recorded intangible assets and goodwill and the value of the tradenames in connection with our acquisitions of trade secret and stp and may similarly do so in the future in connection with other acquisitions. if we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions, we may be required to impair some or all of the goodwill associated with an acquisition, which would adversely impact our results of operations and balance sheet, such as with the impairment charge related to stp taken during fiscal 2018. divestitures, closings and consolidations could involve risks such as significant costs and obligations of closure, including exposure on leases, owned real estate and other contractual, employment, pension and severance obligations, and potential liabilities that may arise under law as a result of the disposition or the subsequent failure of an acquirer. our results may be materially adversely affected by the outcomes of litigation, legal proceedings and other legal or regulatory matters. we are involved, or may in the future become involved, in legal proceedings, regulatory reviews, audits and other legal matters. these may involve inquiries, investigations, lawsuits and other proceedings by local, provincial, state and federal governmental entities (in the united states and other countries) and private plaintiffs, including with respect to employment and employee benefits including classification, employment rights, discrimination, wage and hour and retaliation; whistle blower claims; tax; securities; disclosure; real estate; environmental matters; tort; business practices; consumer protection; privacy/data security; product safety and compliance; advertising; and intellectual property. there continue to be employment-related and consumer protection lawsuits, including putative class actions, in the united states, and we are subject to these types of suits. we cannot predict the results of legal and regulatory proceedings with certainty, and actual results may differ from any reserves we establish estimating the probable outcome. regardless of merit or outcome, litigation can be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and may cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations could expose us to significant defense costs, fines, penalties and liability to private parties and governmental entities for monetary recoveries and other amounts and attorneys fees and/or require us to change aspects of our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. tax matters could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our effective income tax rate and future tax liability could be adversely affected by numerous factors including the results of tax audits and examinations, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory income tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory income tax rates, 20 changes in income tax rates, changes in transfer pricing, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in applicable tax legislation, regulations and treaties, exposure to additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties, and changes in accounting principles and interpretations relating to tax matters, any of which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition in future periods. significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our worldwide provision and accruals for taxes, and actual results may differ from our estimations. in december 2017, the u.s. tax cut and jobs act of 2017 (the 2017 tax act ) significantly revised the current federal income tax code with significant changes to corporate taxation, including reducing the corporate tax rate, limiting certain tax deductions, revising the treatment of foreign earnings for u.s. federal income tax purposes and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits. while the 2017 tax act reduces the federal income tax rate for corporations, it could negatively affect our business and financial condition. many aspects of the new tax law are uncertain. significant judgements will need to be made in the interpretation of various provisions, and u.s. regulators could interpret or issue guidance that is different from our interpretation. in addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law, which could also impact our tax obligations. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns and reports by federal, state, provincial and local tax authorities in the u.s. and foreign countries, and the examining authorities may challenge positions we take. we are engaged in various proceedings, which are at various stages, with such authorities with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these proceedings to determine the adequacy and appropriateness of our provision for income taxes, and increase and decrease our provision as a result of these assessments. however, the developments in and actual results of proceedings or the result of rulings by or settlements with tax authorities and courts or due to changes in facts, law or legal interpretations, expiration of applicable statutes of limitations or other resolutions of tax positions could differ from the amounts we have accrued for such proceedings in either a positive or a negative manner, which could materially affect our effective income tax rate in a given financial period, the amount of taxes we are required to pay and our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to tax audits and examinations for payroll, value added, sales-based and other taxes relating to our businesses. as our business is subject to seasonal influences, a decrease in sales or margins, a severe disruption or other significant event that impacts our business during the second half of the year could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results. our business is subject to seasonal influences; we generally realize higher levels of sales and earnings in the second half of the year, which includes the back-to-school and year-end holiday seasons. any decrease in sales or margins or any significant adverse event during this period including those described in the factors in this section, could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our results of operations. our real estate leases generally obligate us for long periods, which subjects us to financial risks. we lease virtually all of our store locations and either own or lease for long periods our primary distribution centers and administrative offices. accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with leasing and owning real estate, which can adversely affect our results. while we have the right to terminate some of our leases under specified conditions, including by making specified payments, we may not be able to terminate a particular lease if or when we would like to do so. if we decide to close stores, we are generally required to continue to perform obligations under the applicable leases, which generally include, among other things, paying rent and operating expenses for the balance of the lease term, or paying to exercise rights to terminate, and the performance of any of these obligations may be expensive. when we assign leases or sublease space to third parties, or if we sell a business, we can remain liable on the lease obligations if the assignee or sublessee does not perform (as was the case with some of our former operations). in addition, when the lease term for the stores in our ongoing operations expire, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores or to relocate stores within a market on less favorable terms. 21 failure to protect our inventory or other assets from loss and theft may impact our financial results. risk of loss or theft of assets, including inventory shrinkage, is inherent in the retail apparel and home fashion businesses. loss may be caused by error or misconduct of associates, customers, vendors or third parties. our inability to effectively combat and/or minimize the loss or theft of assets, or to effectively reduce the impact of those losses, could adversely affect our financial performance. we depend upon strong cash flows from our operations to supply capital to fund our operations, growth, stock repurchases and dividends and interest and debt repayment. our business depends upon our operations to continue to generate strong cash flow to supply capital to support our general operating activities, to fund our growth and our return of cash to stockholders through our stock repurchase programs and dividends, and to pay our interest and debt repayments. our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities or to repatriate cash from our international operations in a manner that is cost effective could adversely affect our growth plans and financial performance including our earnings per share. we borrow on occasion to finance our activities and if financing were not available to us in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms when needed, it could also adversely affect our financial performance. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk tjx is exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of business. some potential market risks are discussed below: foreign currency exchange risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk on the translation of our foreign operations into the u.s. dollar and on purchases of goods in currencies that are not the local currencies of stores where the goods are sold and on intercompany debt and interest payable between and among our domestic and international operations. our currency risk primarily relates to our activity in the canadian dollar, british pound and euro. as more fully described in note e- financial instruments of notes to consolidated financial statements, we use derivative financial instruments to hedge a portion of certain merchandise purchase commitments, primarily at our international operations, and a portion of our intercompany transactions with and within our international operations. we enter into derivative contracts only for the purpose of hedging the underlying economic exposure. we utilize currency forward and swap contracts, designed to offset the gains or losses on the underlying exposures. the contracts are executed with banks we believe are creditworthy and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. our foreign exchange risk management policy prohibits us from using derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and we do not use any leveraged derivative financial instruments. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates applied to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above as well as the translation of our foreign operations into our reporting currency. as of february 3, 2018 and january 28, 2017, the analysis indicated that such an adverse movement would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position but could have reduced our pre-tax income by approximately $78 million and $65 million, in fiscal years 2018 and 2017, respectively. equity price and other market risk the assets of our funded qualified pension plan, a portion of which are equity securities, are subject to the risks and uncertainties of the financial markets. we invest the pension assets (described further in note i- pension plans and other retirement benefits of notes to consolidated financial statements) in a manner that attempts to minimize and control our exposure to market uncertainties. investments, in general, are exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit, and overall market volatility risks. a significant decline in the financial markets could adversely affect the value of our pension plan assets and the funded status of our pension plan, resulting in increased required contributions to the plan or other plan-related liabilities. our pension plan investment policy prohibits the use of derivatives for speculative purposes.risk factors the statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully, in connection with all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks that follow are those that we think, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements. failure to execute our opportunistic buying strategy and inventory management could adversely affect our results. opportunistic buying, operating with lean inventory levels and frequent inventory turns are key elements of our off-price business strategy but subject us to risks related to the pricing, quantity, mix, nature, and timing of inventory flowing to our stores. our merchants are in the marketplace frequently, as much of our merchandise is purchased for the current or immediately upcoming season, and our focus on buying opportunistically places considerable discretion with them. our business model expects our merchants to effectively react to frequently changing opportunities and trends in the market, assess the desirability and value of merchandise and generally make determinations of how and what we source as well as when we source it. if we do not obtain the right merchandise at the right times, in the right quantities, at the right prices and in the right mix, our customer traffic, as well as our sales and margins, could be adversely affected. we base our purchases of inventory, in part, on our sales forecasts. if our sales forecasts do not match customer demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and need to take markdowns on excess or slow-moving inventory or we may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, either of which could adversely affect our financial performance. if we are unable to generally purchase inventory at prices sufficiently below prices paid by conventional retailers, we may not be able to maintain a sufficient overall pricing differential to full-price retailers, including department, specialty, and major online retailers, and our ability to attract customers or sustain our margins may be adversely affected. we may not achieve this pricing differential at various times or in some reporting segments, chains or geographies, which could adversely affect our results. to respond to customer demand and effectively manage pricing and markdowns, we need to appropriately allocate and deliver merchandise to our stores, maintain an appropriate mix and level of inventory in each store, and be flexible in our allocation of floor space at our stores among product categories. if we are not able to do so, our ability to attract and retain customers and our results could be adversely affected. failure to continue to expand our business and operations successfully or to manage our substantial size and scale effectively could adversely affect our financial results. our growth strategy includes successfully expanding within our current markets and into new geographic regions, product lines, and channels and, as appropriate, adding new businesses, whether by development, investment or acquisition. managing growth effectively can be difficult. if any aspect of our expansion strategy does not achieve the success we expect, in whole or in part, we may fail to meet our financial performance expectations and/or may be required to increase investments, slow our planned growth or close stores or operations. various circumstances could adversely affect our expansion plans. for example, if we are not able to find and lease appropriate real estate on attractive terms in the locations where we seek to open stores, we may need to change our planned growth in those areas. similarly, new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores, whether in current or new markets; our financial performance in new markets may not be the same as in existing markets; and adding stores or banners to existing markets may otherwise adversely affect our sales and profitability in those markets. further, our substantial size can make it challenging to manage our complex operations effectively and to maintain appropriate internal resources and third party providers to support our business effectively. these challenges increase as we grow our business, and may add pressure to management and to various functions across our business, including administration, systems, including information technology systems, merchandising, store operations, distribution, logistics, and compliance. increasing our size and complexity may also put additional pressure on appropriately staffing and training associates in these areas and/or managing appropriate third party providers that support these areas. the large size and scale of our operations, our multiple banners and locations across the u.s., canada, europe and australia and the autonomy afforded to the banners in some aspects of the business also increases the risk that our systems, controls, practices and policies may not be implemented effectively or consistently throughout our company and that information may not be appropriately shared across our operations. these risks may increase as we continue to grow, particularly if we expand into additional countries. if business information is not shared effectively, or if we are otherwise unable to manage our size or growth effectively, our business may be adversely affected or we may need to reduce the rate of expansion or otherwise curtail growth, which may adversely affect our business plans, sales and results. 8 failure to identify consumer trends and preferences to meet customer demand in new or existing markets or channels could negatively impact our performance. as our success depends on our ability to meet customer demand and expectations, we work to identify consumer trends and preferences on an ongoing basis and to offer inventory and shopping experiences that meet those trends and preferences. however, we may not do so effectively and on a timely basis across our diverse merchandise categories and in each of the many markets in the u.s., canada, europe and australia in which we do business. trends and preferences in markets may differ from what we anticipate. although our business model allows us greater flexibility than many traditional retailers to meet consumer preferences and trends (for example, by expanding and contracting merchandise categories in response to consumers' changing tastes), we may not successfully do so, which could add difficulty in attracting new customers, retaining existing customers and encouraging frequent customer visits and could adversely affect our results. customers may also have expectations about how they shop in stores or through e-commerce or more generally engage with businesses across different channels (for example, through various digital platforms), which expectations may vary across demographics and may evolve rapidly. meeting these expectations effectively involves identifying the right opportunities and making the right investments at the right time and with the right speed, among other things, and failure to do so may impact our financial results. if we fail to successfully implement our various marketing efforts or if our competitors' programs are more effective than ours, our revenue or results of operations may be adversely affected. customer traffic and demand for our merchandise may be influenced by our marketing efforts. although we use marketing to drive customer traffic through various media including television, radio, print, outdoor, digital/social media, email, mobile and direct mail, some of our competitors expend more for their programs than we do, or use different approaches than we do, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. further, we may not effectively implement strategies with respect to rapidly evolving digital communication channels. our programs may not be or remain effective or could require increased expenditures, which could have a significant adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. we operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to compete effectively. the retail apparel and home fashion businesses are highly competitive. we compete with local, regional, national and international retailers that sell apparel, home fashions and other merchandise that we sell, including retailers that operate through stores, e-commerce, catalogues and/or other media or channels. some of our competitors are larger than we are or have more experience in selling certain product lines or through certain channels than we do. new competitors frequently enter the market. existing competitors enter or increase their presence in markets in which we operate and may expand their merchandise offerings, add new sales channels or change their pricing strategies, all of which affect the competitive landscape. consumer spending online has increased and may continue to increase, while our business is primarily in stores. we compete on the basis of various factors affecting value, meaning the combination of brand, fashion, price, and quality as well as merchandise selection and freshness; banner name recognition and appeal; both in-store and online service and shopping experience; convenience and store location. if we fail to compete effectively, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. failure to employ quality associates in appropriate numbers and to retain key associates and management could adversely affect our performance. our performance depends on recruiting, hiring, developing, training and retaining talented associates in key areas such as buying and management. we also need to hire capable, engaged associates in large numbers for our stores and distribution centers and for other areas of our business, including information technology functions. we must constantly recruit new associates to fill entry level and part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover and at times find seasonal talent in sufficient numbers. availability and skill of associates may differ across markets in which we do business and in new markets we enter, and we may be unable to manage our labor needs effectively. in addition, because of the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must provide significant internal training and development for key associates across the company, including within our buying organization. similar to other retailers, we face challenges in securing and retaining sufficient talent in management and other key areas for many reasons, including competition for talent in the retail industry and in various geographic markets. if we do not effectively attract qualified individuals, train them in our business model, support their development and retain them in sufficient numbers and at appropriate levels of the organization, our growth could be limited and our performance could be adversely affected. 9 labor costs, including wage, pension and healthcare costs, and other challenges from our large workforce may adversely affect our results and profitability. we have a large workforce, and our ability to meet our labor needs and control labor costs is subject to various factors such as minimum wage laws and benefits requirements; market pressures, including prevailing wage rates and benefit levels and unemployment levels; changing demographics; economic conditions; interest rate changes; actuarial assumptions and methods; the costs of providing and managing retirement, health and other employee benefits, including health and insurance costs; and a dynamic regulatory and policy environment, including with respect to health care, immigration, labor, employment, pension and other employee benefits, and taxes. any of these factors could increase our labor costs. increased labor costs may adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, when wage rates or benefit levels increase in a market, increasing our wages or benefits may negatively impact our earnings (as they did during the past several fiscal years). conversely, failing to offer competitive wages or benefits could adversely affect our ability to attract or retain sufficient or quality associates, causing our customer service or performance to suffer, which could impact our results. many associates in our distribution centers are members of unions, and therefore we are subject to the risk of labor actions of various kinds as well as risks and potential material expenses associated with multiemployer plans, including from pension plan underfunding, benefit cuts, increased contribution requirements, changes in plan terms, withdrawal liability, increased premium costs, or insolvency of other participating employers or governmental insurance programs. other associates in europe are members of works councils, which may subject us to additional requirements, actions or expense. compromises of our data security, disruptions in our information technology systems, or failure to satisfy the information technology needs of our business could result in material loss or liability, materially impact our operating results or materially harm our reputation . our business depends on our information technology systems, which collect and process information of customers, associates and other persons, as well as information of our business and of our suppliers and service providers. we rely heavily on information technology systems, including those of suppliers and service providers, to manage all key aspects of our business, including planning, purchasing, sales, supply chain management, inventory management, point-of-sale processing, e-commerce, human resources, financial management, communications, safeguarding information, and compliance with legal obligations. this reliance requires us to accurately anticipate our current and future information technology needs and successfully develop and implement appropriate systems that can provide the right support at the right time. our ongoing operations and successful growth are dependent on the doing so, as well as the ongoing integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems, including related back-up systems. as is common in the retail industry, our information technology systems, as well as those of our suppliers and service providers, are targeted by attempts to access personal or sensitive information, attempts to steal money, and attempts to disrupt business. these attempts could include use of malware, ransomware, phishing, social engineering, denial-of-service attacks, exploitation of software or product vulnerabilities, employee malfeasance, skimmers and shimmers, and other forms of cyber attacks. these attempts are becoming increasingly sophisticated, heightening the risk of compromise or disruption. our and our suppliers' and service providers' information technology systems also may be damaged or disrupted, or personal or sensitive information compromised, from a number of other causes, including power outages, system failures, catastrophic events, or employee inadvertence. such damage or interruption could materially impair our ability to operate our business or otherwise result in material impacts on our operating results. in addition, the global regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, and unauthorized access of personal or sensitive information could result in regulatory enforcement actions, class actions, contract liability, or other forms of material legal liability. any successful compromise or disruption of our information technology systems could result in material reputational harm and impact our customers' willingness to shop in our stores or online and/or our suppliers' willingness to do business with us. we maintain policies, procedures, and controls designed to reduce the risk of data security compromises and information technology failures or disruptions. while we have implemented measures designed to further strengthen these policies, procedures and controls since the unauthorized intrusions into our network discovered late in 2006, we may suffer a similar event in the future. these measures also require costly and ongoing investment in technologies, hiring, training, and compliance. there is a risk of material business disruption, liability and reputational damage associated with ongoing actions intended to update, enhance, modify or replace our systems and infrastructure, including from not accurately capturing and maintaining data, efficiently testing and implementing changes, realizing the expected benefit of the change and managing the potential disruption of the actions and diversion of internal teams' attention as the changes are implemented. 10 economic conditions, on a global level or in particular markets, may adversely affect our financial performance. global financial markets can experience volatility, disruption and credit contraction, which could adversely affect global economic conditions. turmoil in the financial, equity and credit markets or other changes in economic conditions could adversely affect sources of liquidity available to us or our costs of capital and could adversely affect plan asset values and investment performance, and increase our pension liabilities, expenses and funding requirements and other related financial exposure with respect to company-sponsored and multiemployer pension plans. our strategies for managing these financial risks and exposures may not be effective or sufficient. economic conditions, both on a global level and in particular markets, including unemployment levels; availability of disposable income and actual and perceived wealth; energy and health care costs; costs of oil, gas and other commodities; interest and tax rates and policies; weakness in the housing market; volatility in capital markets; credit availability; inflation and deflation, as well as political or other factors beyond our control such as threats or possibilities of war, terrorism, global or national unrest; actual or threatened epidemics; geopolitical instability or uncertainty; and regulatory volatility or uncertainty, including in areas such as international trade (for example, the ongoing discussions and uncertainty related to brexit, the u.k.'s decision to withdraw from the european union) may also have significant effects on consumer confidence and spending that would, in turn, affect our business or the retail industry generally. these conditions and factors could adversely affect discretionary consumer spending or shift trends in consumer spending and, although we believe our flexible off-price model helps us react, they may adversely affect our sales, cash flows and results of operations and performance. damage to our corporate reputation or those of our retail banners could adversely affect our sales and operating results. we believe that building the brand reputation of our company and our retail banners is important to our continuing success. in the many different markets in which we do business, we work to build relationships with our customers through our various marketing campaigns and other activities. these relationships and our reputation are based, in part, on perceptions of subjective qualities. incidents involving us, our retail banners, our executives or other associates, our policies and practices, our third party providers, our vendors, the merchandise and brands (including our licensed or owned brands) that we carry or our industry more generally that erode trust or confidence could adversely affect our reputation and our business, particularly if the incidents result in rapid or significant adverse publicity, litigation or governmental inquiry. information about us, our retail banners, our executives and other associates, our board of directors, our policies and practices, our third party providers, our vendors, and the merchandise and brands we sell, including our licensed or owned brands, that is publicized through traditional or digital media platforms, including blogs, websites and other forums that facilitate rapid, broad communications to an audience of consumers and other interested persons, may adversely affect our reputation and brand, even if the information is inaccurate, incomplete or unverified. the reputation of our company and our retail banners may be damaged in a market or markets in which we do business by adverse events at the corporate level or at our retail banners, or by a director or an executive or other associate acting outside of company policies and practices. similarly, challenges or reactions to action (or inaction), perceived action (or inaction), by our company on issues like social policies, privacy, merchandising, compensation, compliance related to social, product, labor and environmental standards or other sensitive topics, and any perceived lack of transparency about such matters, could harm our reputation, particularly as expectations of companies and of companies' corporate responsibility obligations may continue to change. damage to the reputation of our company and our banners could result in declines in customer loyalty and sales; affect our vendor relationships, business development opportunities and our ability to attract and retain quality associates; divert attention and resources from management, including to respond to inquiries or additional regulatory scrutiny; and otherwise adversely affect our results. 11 quality, safety or other issues with merchandise we sell could damage our reputation, sales and financial results. various governmental authorities in the jurisdictions where we do business regulate the quality and safety of the merchandise we sell to consumers. regulations and standards in this area, including federal regulations related to the u.s. consumer product safety improvement act of 2008 and the u.s. food safety modernization act, state regulations like california's proposition 65, and similar legislation in other countries in which we operate, impose restrictions and requirements on the merchandise we sell in our stores and through e-commerce. these regulations change from time to time and new federal, state, provincial or local regulations in the u.s. and other countries that may affect our business are contemplated and enacted with some regularity. if we or our merchandise vendors are unable to comply with regulatory requirements on a timely basis or at all, or to adequately monitor new regulations that may apply to existing or new merchandise categories or in new geographies, we could incur significant fines or penalties or we could have to curtail some aspects of our sales or operations, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. we rely on our vendors to provide quality merchandise that complies with applicable product safety laws, labeling requirements and other applicable laws, but they may not comply with their obligations to do so. although our arrangements with our vendors frequently provide for indemnification for product liabilities, the vendors may fail to honor those obligations to an extent we consider sufficient or at all. concerns or issues with the quality and safety of merchandise raised publicly, particularly with products subject to increased levels of regulation, or the genuineness of merchandise, regardless of whether verified or our fault, could cause damage to our reputation and could result in lost sales; uninsured claims or losses; merchandise recalls and increased costs; and regulatory, civil or criminal fines or penalties, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. failure to comply with laws, rules, regulations and orders and applicable accounting principles and interpretations could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance. we are subject to federal, state, provincial, regional and local laws, rules and regulations as well as government orders in various countries in which we operate. these legal, regulatory and administrative requirements collectively affect multiple aspects of our business, including the cost of providing health care and retirement benefits, workforce management, logistics, marketing, import/export, sourcing and manufacturing, tax, data protection and others. if we, or third parties that perform services on our behalf, fail to comply with applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders, we may be subject to judgments, fines or other costs or penalties, which could adversely affect our operations and our financial results and condition. complying with applicable laws, rules, regulations, orders and our own internal policies may also require us to spend additional time and resources to implement new procedures and financial and other controls, conduct audits, train associates and third parties on our compliance methods or take other actions, particularly as we continue to grow globally and enter new markets or countries, any of which could adversely impact our results. we must also comply with new and changing laws, rules and regulations, evolving interpretations of existing laws by judicial and regulatory authorities, and reforms in jurisdictions where we do business. these changes could increase our costs of compliance or of doing business and could adversely affect our operating results, including such changes involving: labor and employment practices and benefits, including for labor unions and works councils; climate change, energy and waste; supply chain, trade restrictions and logistics, including resulting from changes to requirements or policies from the outcome of brexit discussions; health and welfare regulations; consumer protection and product safety; financial regulations; data protection and privacy, such as to comply with, or fines and penalties related to, the general data protection regulation in europe; internet regulations, including e-commerce, electronic communications and privacy; and protection of intellectual property rights. particularly in a dynamic regulatory environment, anticipated changes to laws and regulations may require us to invest in compliance efforts or otherwise expend resources before changes are certain. for example, the ongoing uncertainty around brexit, including relating to timing and the range of possible outcomes, has required us to consider and in some cases implement strategies for mitigating potential disruptions to our supply chain. further, applicable accounting principles and interpretations may change from time to time, and the changes could have material effects on our future or previously reported financial results. 12 our results may be adversely affected by serious disruptions or catastrophic events, as well as adverse or unseasonable weather . natural or other disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes and other extreme weather; climate conditions; unforeseen public health issues, such as pandemics and epidemics; or fires, explosions and acts of war or terrorism could disrupt our operations in a number of ways, including severely damaging or destroying one or more of our stores, distribution facilities or data centers, or could disrupt the operations of one or more of our vendors or other parts of our supply chain located in the affected areas. day-to-day operations, including our ability to receive products from our vendors or third party service providers or transport products to our stores or to our e-commerce customers could be adversely affected, transportation to and from our stores (by customers or associates) could be limited, or we could be required to close stores or distribution centers in the affected areas or in areas served by affected distribution centers for a short or extended period of time (as we did in areas of the u.s., including puerto rico, after severe hurricanes during fiscal 2018). adverse weather can similarly affect our operations in impacted areas. adverse or unseasonable weather, such as storms, severe cold or heat or unseasonable temperatures (even if not extreme) may also affect customers' buying patterns and willingness to shop certain categories we offer or at all, and accordingly, can adversely affect the demand for the merchandise in our stores, particularly in apparel and seasonal merchandise, possibly impacting our sales, customer satisfaction with our stores and increasing markdowns. as a result, our business could be adversely affected. our expanding international operations expose us to risks inherent in operating in new countries. we have a significant retail presence in canada and in countries in europe, and have expanded our retail operations into australia. we also operate buying offices around the world. our goal is to continue to expand our operations into other countries in the future. it can be costly and complex to establish, develop and maintain international operations and promote business in new international jurisdictions, which may differ significantly from other countries in which we currently operate. just as with our current operations, there are risks inherent in opening and developing operations in new countries, such those related to compliance under the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. additional risks include, among others, understanding the local retail climate and trends, local customs and cultures, seasonal differences, business practices and competitive conditions; complying with relevant laws, rules and regulations; developing the appropriate infrastructure; identifying suitable partners for local operations and for integration with our global operations and effectively communicating and implementing company policies and practices in new, possibly remote, jurisdictions. there are also financial, regulatory and other risks associated with international operations, including currency exchange fluctuations; potentially adverse tax consequences; limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds outside of the country where earned; trade regulations; the risk of sudden policy or regulatory changes; the risk of political, economic and civil instability and labor unrest; and uncertainties regarding interpretation, application and enforceability of laws and agreements. any of these risks could adversely impact our operations, profitability or liquidity. we are subject to risks associated with sourcing merchandise from others, particularly where sourcing from other countries and moving merchandise internationally. we are subject to various risks of sourcing merchandise from others, particularly other countries, including risks related to moving merchandise internationally. many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our vendors and, to a lesser extent, by us, in locations, particularly southeastern asia, which are outside of the country where they will be sold. where we are the importer of record, we may be subject to regulatory or other requirements, including those similar to requirements imposed upon the manufacturer of such products. these risk include: potential disruptions in manufacturing and supply; changes in duties, tariffs, trade restrictions, sanctions, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise, including, for example, tariffs and border adjustment taxes; changes to the north american free trade agreement or successor or other trade agreements; or changes to trade requirements resulting from brexit; transport capacity and costs; information technology challenges; problems in third-party distribution and warehousing, logistics, transportation and other supply chain interruptions; strikes, threats of strikes and other events affecting delivery; consumer perceptions of the safety or quality of imported merchandise; product and international trade compliance with laws and regulations of the destination country; 13 compliance with laws and regulations including changing labor, environmental, international trade and other laws in those countries and those concerning ethical business practices, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act; product liability claims from customers or penalties from government agencies relating to products that are recalled, defective or otherwise noncompliant or alleged to be harmful; intellectual property enforcement and infringement issues; concerns about human rights, working conditions and other labor rights and conditions in countries where merchandise is produced; concerns about transparent sourcing and supply chains; currency exchange rates, financial or economic instability; and political or other disruptions in countries from, to or through which merchandise is imported. these and other factors relating to sourcing, international trade and imported merchandise could affect the availability and the price of our inventory and our operating costs. furthermore, although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations relating to production of merchandise, international operations and importing merchandise, there can be no assurance that our associates and our contractors, agents, vendors or other third parties with whom we do business or to whom we outsource business operations will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies, which could subject us to liability and could adversely affect our reputation, operations or operating results. our results may be adversely affected by reduced availability of, or increases in, the price of oil or other fuels, increased costs of other commodities, or other increases in utility, transportation or logistics costs. energy and fuel costs can fluctuate dramatically and, at times, have resulted in significant cost increases, particularly for the price of oil and gasoline. an increase in the price of oil increases our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and costs to purchase our products from suppliers. although we typically enter into derivative instruments designed to manage a portion of our transportation costs (a hedging strategy), any such strategy may not be effective or sufficient and could result in increased operating costs. increased regulation related to environmental costs, including cap and trade, carbon taxes or other emissions management systems could also adversely affect our costs of doing business, including utility, transportation and logistics costs, as could other shortages or disruptions impacting transportation, such as those relating to trucking and freight hauling. for example, in recent years, increased freight cost related to labor and equipment shortages, as well as other factors, had an impact on our margins. similarly, other commodity prices can fluctuate dramatically. such increases can increase the cost of merchandise, which could adversely affect our performance through potentially reduced consumer demand or reduced margins. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may lead to lower revenues and earnings. sales made by our stores outside the united states are denominated in the currency of the country in which the store is located, and changes in currency exchange rates affect the translation of the sales and earnings of these businesses into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. because of this, movements in currency exchange rates have had and are expected to continue to have a significant impact on our consolidated and segment results from time to time. changes in currency exchange rates can also increase the cost of inventory purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the local currency of the business buying the merchandise. when exchange rates change significantly in a short period or move unfavorably over an extended period, as in recent years, it can be difficult for us to adjust retail prices accordingly, and gross margin can be adversely affected. in addition, a significant amount of merchandise we offer for sale is made in china and accordingly, a revaluation of chinese currency, or increased market flexibility in the exchange rate for that currency, increasing its value relative to the u.s. dollar or currencies in which our stores are located, could be significant. additionally, we routinely enter into inventory-related derivative instruments (a hedging strategy) to mitigate the impact of currency exchange rates on merchandise margins of merchandise purchases by our segments denominated in currencies other than their local currencies. in accordance with gaap, we evaluate the fair value of these derivative instruments and make mark-to-market adjustments at the end of each accounting period. these adjustments are of a much greater magnitude when there is significant volatility in currency exchange rates and may have a significant impact on our earnings. although we implement foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in currency exchange rates, we expect that currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations from time to time. in addition, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our earnings and operating results if a counterparty to one of our hedging arrangements fails to perform. 14 our quarterly operating results fluctuate and may fall short of prior periods, our projections or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could adversely affect our stock price. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter at points in the past, and they may do so in the future. if we fail to increase our results over prior periods, to achieve our projected results or to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decline, and the decrease in the stock price may be disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance. results may be affected by various factors, including those described in these risk factors. we maintain a forecasting process that seeks to plan sales and align expenses. if we do not control costs or appropriately adjust costs to actual results, or if actual results differ significantly from our forecast, our financial performance could be adversely affected. in addition, if we do not repurchase the number of shares we contemplated pursuant to our stock repurchase programs, our earnings per share may be adversely affected. if we engage in mergers or acquisitions or investments in new businesses, or divest, close or consolidate any of our current businesses, our business will be subject to additional risks. we may acquire new businesses (as we did with our australia business in fiscal 2016 and sierra in fiscal 2013), invest in or enter into joint ventures with other businesses, develop new businesses internally (as with homesense, our u.s. home store concept launched in fiscal 2018) and divest, close or consolidate businesses. failure to execute on mergers, acquisitions, investments, divestitures, closings and consolidations in a satisfactory manner could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. acquisition, investment or divestiture activities may divert attention of management from operating the existing businesses, and we may not effectively evaluate target companies, investments or investment partners or assess the risks, benefits and costs of buying, investing in or closing businesses or of the integration of acquired businesses, all of which can be difficult, time-consuming and dilutive. these activities may not meet our performance and other expectations and may expose us to unexpected or greater-than-expected costs, liabilities and risks. in addition, we recorded intangible assets and goodwill and the value of the tradenames in connection with our last acquisitions and may similarly do so in the future in connection with other acquisitions. if we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions, we may be required to impair some or all of the goodwill associated with an acquisition, which would adversely impact our results of operations and balance sheet, such as with the impairment charge related to sierra taken during fiscal 2018. divestitures, closings and consolidations could involve risks such as significant costs and obligations of closure, including exposure on leases, owned real estate and other contractual, employment, pension and severance obligations, and potential liabilities that may arise under law as a result of the disposition or the subsequent failure of an acquirer. our results may be materially adversely affected by the outcomes of litigation, legal proceedings and other legal or regulatory matters. we are involved, or may in the future become involved, in legal proceedings, regulatory reviews, audits and other legal matters. these may involve inquiries, investigations, lawsuits and other proceedings by local, provincial, state and federal governmental entities (in the united states and other countries) and private plaintiffs, including with respect to employment and employee benefits (such as classification, employment rights, discrimination, wage and hour and retaliation); whistle blower claims; tax; securities; disclosure; real estate; environmental matters; tort; business practices; consumer protection; privacy/data security; product safety and compliance; advertising; and intellectual property. there continue to be employment-related and consumer protection lawsuits, including putative class actions, in the united states, and we are subject to these types of suits. we cannot predict the results of legal and regulatory proceedings with certainty, and actual results may differ from any reserves we establish estimating the probable outcome. regardless of merit or outcome, these proceedings can be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and may cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. legal, regulatory and other proceedings could expose us to significant defense costs, fines, penalties and liability to private parties and governmental entities for monetary recoveries and other amounts and attorneys' fees and/or require us to change aspects of our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 15 tax matters could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our effective income tax rate and future tax liability could be adversely affected by numerous factors including the results of tax audits and examinations, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory income tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory income tax rates, changes in income tax rates, changes in transfer pricing, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in applicable tax legislation, regulations, treaties and other guidance, and changes in accounting principles and interpretations relating to tax matters, any of which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition in future periods. the u.s. tax cut and jobs act of 2017 (the 2017 tax act ) significantly revised the previous federal income tax code. it is expected that additional interpretive guidance will be issued with respect to the 2017 tax act and such guidance may be different from our interpretation and thus adversely affect our results. in addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law, which could also impact our tax obligations. significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our worldwide provision and accruals for taxes, and actual results may differ from our estimations. in addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns and reports by federal, state, provincial and local tax authorities in the u.s. and foreign countries, and the examining authorities may challenge positions we take. we are engaged in various proceedings, which are at various stages, with such authorities with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these proceedings to determine the adequacy and appropriateness of our provision for income taxes, and increase and decrease our provision as a result of these assessments. however, the developments in and actual results of proceedings or the result of rulings by or settlements with tax authorities and courts or due to changes in facts, law or legal interpretations, expiration of applicable statutes of limitations or other resolutions of tax positions could differ from the amounts we have accrued for such proceedings in either a positive or a negative manner, which could materially affect our effective income tax rate in a given financial period, the amount of taxes we are required to pay and our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to tax audits and examinations for payroll, value added, sales-based and other taxes relating to our businesses. as our business is subject to seasonal influences, a decrease in sales or margins, a severe disruption or other significant event that impacts our business during the second half of the year could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results. our business is subject to seasonal influences; we generally realize higher levels of sales and earnings in the second half of the year, which includes the back-to-school and year-end holiday seasons. any decrease in sales or margins or any significant adverse event during this period including those described in the factors in this section, could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our results of operations. our real estate leases generally obligate us for long periods, which subjects us to financial risks. we lease virtually all of our store locations and either own or lease for long periods our primary distribution centers and administrative offices. accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with leasing and owning real estate, which can adversely affect our results. while we have the right to terminate some of our leases under specified conditions, including by making specified payments, we may not be able to terminate a particular lease if or when we would like to do so. if we decide to close stores, we are generally required to continue to perform obligations under the applicable leases, which generally include, among other things, paying rent and operating expenses for the balance of the lease term, or paying to exercise rights to terminate, and the performance of any of these obligations may be expensive. when we assign leases or sublease space to third parties, or if we sell a business, we can remain liable on the lease obligations if the assignee or sublessee does not perform (as was the case with some of our former operations). in addition, when the lease terms for the stores in our ongoing operations expire, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores or to relocate stores within a market on less favorable terms or in a less favorable location. failure to protect our inventory or other assets from loss and theft may impact our financial results. risk of loss or theft of assets, including inventory shrinkage, is inherent in the retail business. loss may be caused by error or misconduct of associates, customers, vendors or third parties. our inability to effectively combat and/or minimize the loss or theft of assets, or to effectively reduce the impact of those losses, could adversely affect our financial performance. 16 we depend upon strong cash flows from our operations to supply capital to fund our operations, growth, stock repurchases and dividends and interest and debt repayment. our business depends upon our operations to continue to generate strong cash flow to supply capital to support our general operating activities, to fund our growth and our return of cash to stockholders through our stock repurchase programs and dividends, and to pay our interest and debt repayments. our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities or to repatriate cash from our international operations in a manner that is cost effective could adversely affect our growth plans and financial performance including our earnings per share. we borrow on occasion to finance our activities and if financing were not available to us in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms when needed, it could also adversely affect our financial performance. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk tjx is exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of business. some potential market risks are discussed below: foreign currency exchange risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk on the translation of our foreign operations into the u.s. dollar and on purchases of goods in currencies that are not the local currencies of stores where the goods are sold and on intercompany debt and interest payable between and among our domestic and international operations. our currency risk primarily relates to our activity in the canadian dollar, british pound and euro. as more fully described in note e- financial instruments of notes to consolidated financial statements, we use derivative financial instruments to hedge a portion of certain merchandise purchase commitments, primarily at our international operations, and a portion of our intercompany transactions with and within our international operations. we enter into derivative contracts only for the purpose of hedging the underlying economic exposure. we utilize currency forward and swap contracts, designed to offset the gains or losses on the underlying exposures. the contracts are executed with banks we believe are creditworthy and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. our foreign exchange risk management policy prohibits us from using derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and we do not use any leveraged derivative financial instruments. we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates applied to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above as well as the translation of our foreign operations into our reporting currency. as of february 2, 2019 and february 3, 2018 , the analysis indicated that such an adverse movement would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position but could have reduced our pre-tax income by approximately $84 million and $78 million, in fiscal years 2019 and 2018 , respectively. equity price and other market risk the assets of our funded qualified pension plan, a portion of which are equity securities, are subject to the risks and uncertainties of the financial markets. we invest the pension assets (described further in note i- pension plans and other retirement benefits of notes to consolidated financial statements) in a manner that attempts to minimize and control our exposure to market uncertainties. investments, in general, are exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit, and overall market volatility risks. a significant decline in the financial markets could adversely affect the value of our pension plan assets and the funded status of our pension plan, resulting in increased required contributions to the plan or other plan-related liabilities. our pension plan investment policy prohibits the use of derivatives for speculative purposes.