quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks in the other matters section of the company's management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 26 through 29.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk item 8 . financial statements and supplementary data report of independent registered public accounting firm on financial statements consolidated balance sheets consolidated statements of earnings consolidated statements of stockholders' equity consolidated statements of cash flows notes to consolidated financial statements summary of quarterly data (unaudited) item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure item 9a. controls and procedures item 9b. other information part iii item 10 . directors and executive officers of the registrant item 11. executive compensation item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management item 13. certain relationships and related transactions item 14. principal accounting fees and services part iv item 15. exhibits, financial statement schedules 4 part i item 1. business general stryker corporation (the &quot;company&quot; or &quot;stryker&quot;) is a leader in the worldwide orthopaedic market and is one of the world's largest medical device companies. stryker delivers results through a wide range of capabilities including joint replacements, trauma, spine and micro implant systems, orthobiologics, powered surgical instruments, surgical navigation systems and endoscopic products as well as patient handling and emergency medical equipment. stryker also provides outpatient physical therapy services in the united states. stryker was incorporated in michigan in 1946 as the successor company to a business founded in 1941 by dr. homer h. stryker, a leading orthopaedic surgeon and the inventor of several orthopaedic products. stryker's filings with the united states securities and exchange commission, including its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, are accessible free of charge at www.stryker.com within the &quot;for investors&quot; link. in the third quarter of 2004, the company completed its acquisition, by merger, of spinecore, inc. (spinecore), a developer of artificial lumbar and cervical discs. this acquisition is expected to enhance the company's presence in the spinal implant market, an important growth area within its orthopaedic implants segment. in october 2002, the company purchased the dekompressor product line from pain concepts, inc. the dekompressor is a single-use disposable device indicated for the percutaneous removal of disc nucleus material. in july 2002, the company acquired the surgical dynamics inc. spinal implant business (sdi) from tyco international ltd. the acquisition expanded the company's spinal product line by adding interbody spinal cages for the united states market as well as other thoracolumbar and cervical spinal fixation devices. the company's physiotherapy associates, inc. subsidiary has also purchased a number of physical therapy clinic operations during each of the last three years. product sales the company segregates its operations into two reportable business segments: orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment. the orthopaedic implants segment sells orthopaedic reconstructive (hip, knee and shoulder), trauma, spine and micro implant systems, bone cement and the bone growth factor op-1. the medsurg equipment segment sells powered surgical instruments, surgical navigation systems, endoscopic products, medical video imaging equipment and hospital beds and stretchers. the other category includes physical therapy services and corporate administration, interest expense and interest income. the following amounts (in millions) and percentages represent business segment and domestic/international net sales during each of the three years ended december 31: 2004 2003 2002 $ % $ % $ % business segment sales: orthopaedic implants $2,562.5 60% $2,192.5 61% $1,798.3 60% medsurg equipment 1,454.9 34 1,209.8 33 1,011.8 33 physical therapy services 244.9 6 223.0 6 201.5 7 $4,262.3 100% $3,625.3 100% $3,011.6 100% ====== ==== ====== ==== ====== ==== 5 domestic/international sales: domestic $2,753.0 65% $2,333.4 64% $1,973.7 66% international 1,509.3 35 1,291.9 36 1,037.9 34 total net sales $4,262.3 100% $3,625.3 100% $3,011.6 100% ====== ==== ====== ==== ====== ==== additional financial information regarding the company's operating segments and geographic areas can be found under the captions &quot; results of operations &quot; on pages 21 through 27 and &quot; note 12 - segment and geographic data &quot; on pages 52 through 54 of this report. approximately 78% of the company's sales in 2004 and 79% in 2003 and 2002 consisted of products with short lives, such as reconstructive, trauma, spine and micro implants (while implants have a long useful life to the patient, they have a one-time use to the hospital), disposables and expendable tools and parts and service revenues, such as service and repair charges and physical therapy revenues. the balance of sales in each of the years came from products that could be considered capital equipment, having useful lives in excess of one year. the company's backlog of firm orders is not considered material to an understanding of its business. orthopaedic implants orthopaedic implants are designed and manufactured by stryker orthopaedics, stryker trauma, stryker spine, stryker leibinger micro implants and stryker biotech and consist of such products as reconstructive, trauma, spine and micro implant systems, associated instrumentation for surgical implants, bone cement and op-1. artificial joints are made of cobalt chromium, titanium alloys, ceramics or ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene and are implanted in patients whose natural joints have been damaged by arthritis, osteoporosis, other diseases or injury. the company's op-1 bone growth factor, which induces the formation of new bone when implanted into bone, is composed of recombinant human osteogenic protein-1 and a bioresorbable collagen matrix. minimally invasive surgery many of stryker's technologically advanced reconstructive implants are suited to minimally invasive surgery (mis) procedures that are intended to reduce soft-tissue damage and pain while hastening return to function. the company supports surgeons with technology, procedural development and specialized instrumentation as they develop new mis techniques. during 2003, the company began the initial introduction of scorpio total knee minimally invasive instrumentation. this line of instruments is designed to complement the unique, minimally invasive total knee procedure pioneered by a leading orthopaedic surgeon. this technique can reduce the length of the incision by approximately 70%. because of the company's commitment to responsible science, a multicenter study was conducted to validate the technique's reproducibility and potential benefits, such as reduced pain and earlier return to function. the eius unicondylar knee and the avon patellofemoral joint are resurfacing, bone-conserving designs that are used to treat disease isolated to one compartment of the knee. these pre-total knee treatment options can also be implanted using minimally invasive techniques. in order to facilitate emerging procedural approaches, the company has also developed instrumentation for mis total hip arthroplasty. the company's surgical navigation systems are frequently used in mis procedures to improve the accuracy of measurements and to position the implant. stryker trauma has a market leadership position in the intramedullary (im) hip screw market due to the minimally invasive nature of the gamma nail. stryker recently launched a new version of the gamma nail that can be implanted through an even smaller incision. in addition, surgeons are testing the use of the company's surgical navigation systems for this procedure as well as in surgery for pelvic fractures. 6 hip implant systems through stryker orthopaedics, the company offers a variety of hip systems for the global reconstructive market. the abg hip system, partnership hip system, secur-fit hip system, omnifit hip system, accolade hip system and restoration hip system each represents a comprehensive system of hip implants and associated instrumentation designed to provide physicians and patients with reliable results and to reduce operating time for primary and revision procedures. the exeter total hip system is based on a unique, collarless, highly polished, double-tapered femoral design that reduces shear stresses and increases compression at the cement/bone interface. during 2004, the company began transitioning to its new restoration modular revision hip system in the united states, europe, australia and canada. this system offers the revision surgeon flexibility in treating complex stem revisions and restoring patient biomechanics. the restoration modular revision hip system also takes advantage of stryker's long clinical history with hydroxylapatite (ha), a naturally occurring calcium phosphate material that demonstrates a high level of biocompatibility due to its resemblance to bone, by incorporating purefix ha coating on many components. the restoration modular revision hip system complements the company's existing restoration ha and restoration ps monolithic revision systems. stryker was the first company to receive clearance from the fda to commercially release for sale in the united states a hip implant with ha surface treatment. the company's global clinical experience with ha-coated hip stems now extends over 15 years, and reported clinical performance continues to equal or exceed that of comparable hip stems reported in the scientific literature. the company began a limited launch of its centpillar hip system in the japanese market in 2003, with a full rollout in 2004. the taro hip system and centpillar hip system provide lines of products that offer an increased range of motion and a minimally invasive technique preferred by japanese surgeons for their patients. on february 3, 2003, the company received premarket approval (pma) from the fda for its ceramic-on-ceramic hip replacement system, the trident ceramic acetabular insert, for patients in the united states. stryker orthopaedics successfully launched the trident ceramic insert in the united states in the second quarter of 2003 following successful launches in europe, australia and canada in 2002. the trident insert is wear resistant, and it is protected and strengthened by a patented titanium sleeve. other technologies used for total hip replacement include metal-on-conventional polyethylene and metal-on-highly crosslinked polyethylene (crossfire) articulations. by the end of 2004, approximately 61% of the company's acetabular inserts sold in the united states utilized crossfire technology, a highly cross-linked polyethylene designed to reduce wear, and approximately 35% of the inserts utilized the company's ceramic insert technology. in 2002, the company launched the trident acetabular cup system. this patented design, which allows for the use of either polyethylene inserts or ceramic inserts, positioned the company well for the launch of its ceramic acetabular products in the united states in 2003. trident's two independent locking mechanisms provide maximum security for each bearing surface and increase the strength of the ceramic liner. also released in 2002 was the accolade c-cemented stem. this stem complements the accolade tmzf cementless stem launched in 2001 and incorporates many of the same innovative design features for use with cemented stems. accolade c utilizes the simple and efficient accolade instrumentation system. the company entered 2005 with more than 30 years of clinical history with the exeter hip system, more than 20 years of clinical history with the omnifit cemented stem and 15 years of clinical history with the omnifit ha stem. long-term clinical results are an important factor in the company's ability to market hip implants. knee implant systems the company offers six major knee systems under the stryker brand name: the duracon, kinemax, eius, global modular replacement system (gmrs), scorpio and triathlon systems. introduced in 1991 and utilized in more than 500,000 procedures worldwide, the duracon system combines high levels of joint conformity throughout the range of motion and consistent anatomic tracking. the duraconts and scorpiots revision systems and modular rotating hinge, which were introduced in 1999 and 2001, respectively, completed the product line offerings with implants for complex revision procedures. 7 launched on a limited basis in the united states and europe in 2004, the triathlon knee system represents the company's evolutionary design that has been developed to more closely reproduce natural knee motion and is designed to provide mobility with stability through more than 150 degrees of flexion. the state-of-the-art triathlon knee instrumentation is designed to improve operating room efficiency through a streamlined, integrated system providing options and flexibility to meet surgeons' varying preferences and multiple surgical techniques. launched in 2003, the gmrs is a global product that offers a comprehensive solution for severe bone loss in oncology, trauma and revision surgery patients. gmrs has tibial and femoral components, including a total femur, and a modular rotating hinge knee. the system employs both titanium and cobalt chrome alloys for strength and lightness of weight, together with the superior flexibility of the hinge. the mrs system, the predecessor to the gmrs, was the first modular segmental replacement system and has maintained a leadership role in this market segment since its introduction in 1988. the kinemax system is focused in markets outside the united states and offers versatility through design principles based on the clinically successful total condylar and kinematic knee systems. precision-designed monogram instruments provide a common instrument platform for the duracon and kinemax knee systems. the scorpio knee implant design is based on the epicondylar axis of the knee. this patented approach addresses significant clinical issues, such as improved patient rehabilitation and midflexion stability, through an increase in the patella-femoral moment arm and a single anterior-posterior radius. the scorpio plus mobile bearing tibial component was launched in markets outside the united states in 2001 and a clinical trial in the united states is ongoing. this addition to the scorpio line provides a competitive entry into the growing, mobile-bearing market segment. the scorpioflex, which is available for both posterior cruciate-retaining and cruciate-substituting indications, is specifically designed for patients who have the ability and motivation to return to high-flexion activities such as gardening and golfing. scorpioflex has enjoyed success in japan, where it is sold under the trade name scorpio superflex, and is now being sold in the united states. the scorpio system is supported by the passport instrumentation system, which was designed to provide intraoperative flexibility and precision as well as a simple, cost-effective approach to total knee replacement surgery. the eius unicondylar knee replacement system is designed for the quickly growing minimally invasive knee surgery market segment. this system marries bone-sparing femoral and tibial implants with sophisticated instrumentation and a surgical technique aimed at reducing rehabilitation time for patients. knee navigation 3.0, the next generation of surgical navigation software for total knee replacement, was introduced in 2004. this image-guided system offers high precision and consistency through unique two-way communication between the computer and the surgical instruments, giving the patient the most precise fit available. knee navigation 3.0 improves the prior version by incorporating more intuitive hardware and software functionality. training programs are offered to surgeons to provide for the integration of knee navigation technology with total knee and unicondylar knee replacements. other reconstructive products the company markets other reconstructive products, principally shoulder and elbow implants and related instruments, under the stryker brand name. the solar total shoulder system provides a unique design for the humeral head that allows the surgeon to adjust tension of the supporting tissues while maximizing range of motion. the shoulder instruments offer the surgeon increased visibility and access to this tightly confined joint space. the solar bipolar shoulder provides the surgeon with additional options for addressing rotator cuff arthropathy arthritis of the shoulder and is designed with the patented bipolar locking mechanism that is also used in the company's hip implants. the solar shoulder product line gives the surgeon increased intraoperative flexibility to restore the patient's shoulder kinematics. the solar total elbow complements products offered for upper extremity procedures. the semiconstrained design and modular components address varying types of patient anatomy. 8 bone cement simplex bone cement, a material used to secure cemented implants to bone, was first approved for orthopaedic use in the united states in 1971 and is the most widely used bone cement in the world. the company manufactures and provides several variations of simplex bone cement to meet specific patient needs. simplex has more than 40 years of clinical history, the longest of any bone cement, with more than 400 published clinical papers. in 2003, stryker received fda clearance to market simplex p with tobramycin, a preblended antibiotic bone cement. the new, blended simplex, which has been on the market in europe since 2000, is indicated in the united states for patients who are undergoing the second stage of a two-stage revision for a total joint procedure. trauma implant systems through stryker trauma, the company develops, manufactures and markets its trauma implant systems. trauma products, including nailing, plating, hip fracture and external fixation systems, are used primarily in the fixation of fractures resulting from sudden injury. these products consist of internal fixation devices marketed under such names as gamma, grosse &amp; kempf, omega, dall-miles, asnis, t2 and s2, along with external fixation devices marketed under the apex, hoffmann ii and monotube triax names. the company's internal fixation product portfolio includes a full array of intramedullary nails, hip fracture devices and plates and screws in both titanium and stainless steel. these trauma products complement the total hip and knee replacement offerings mentioned above by offering a restorative option in addition to total replacement. to address the hip trauma and fracture segment, the company markets several products, including the im nail portfolio, led by the t2 nailing system; the gamma nail, a unique im nail for trochanteric fractures; the omega hip screw system; the asnis cannulated screw system; and the hansson pin system, providing a complete offering of surgical solutions for the hip trauma patient. these hip fracture systems offer orthopaedic surgeons multiple options depending on their preferences and patient needs. the t2 nailing system includes femoral, tibial and humeral components with a common instrument platform for accuracy and ease of use. building on the success of this titanium nail, the company introduced the stainless steel s2 tibial and femoral nails in 2003. the s2 nails are designed to meet the needs of level 1 trauma centers in the united states as well as broadening the stryker product line in the rest of the world. following an initial release in selected markets during 2003, the gamma3 intramedullary hip fracture nail was fully launched in the united states, japan and throughout europe. the gamma3 is based on more than 15 years of gamma nail experience and is the third generation of im short and long gamma fixation nails. the new gamma3 system is designed to facilitate minimally invasive surgery and reduce surgery time through the use of newly designed implants and new instrumentation. the asnis cannulated screw system can help simplify the operative procedure through features that allow the surgeon to place, insert and remove locking screws easily. to address the knee trauma segment, stryker offers the hoffman ii modular fixation system and the t2 scn nailing system. the hoffman ii knee-bridging frame is used to stabilize injuries to the knee until definitive treatment with a plate, nail or reconstruction option takes place. in addition, stryker offers the t2 scn nail, which can be used for definitive treatment of supracondylar femur fractures just above the knee joint. this nail can also be used for periprosthetic fracture fixation for traumatic fractures in patients who have already had a joint replacement. stryker has four product lines for upper extremity trauma. the numelock ii polyaxial locked plating system is the only comprehensive, upper extremity,polyaxial periarticular fracture fixation system on the market. the recently introduced t2 proximal humeral nail has been very well received and offers a minimally invasive option for fractures of the humerus. the universal distal radius set complements the stainless steel numelock ii with a titanium option in distal radius plates and screws. the universal distal radius set offers a wide array of pre-contoured, variable-sized plates for volar, distal and column approaches and both open reduction and internal fixation techniques. 9 the company's external fixation products also include the hoffmann ii compact, the monotube triax monolateral system, the tenxor circular fixation system for complex fractures and a complete range of pins and wires for attaching the devices to fractured bones. the hoffmann ii compact for upper extremity fractures includes a patented snap-fit mechanism that makes it easy for the surgeon to construct the fixation device to fit the patient and align the fractured bones, and it includes a full selection of lightweight radiolucent connection bars that allow for quick intraoperative fracture repair. the monotube triax system is available in three different sizes and includes an adjustable feature that enables the surgeon to not only stabilize fractures, but also to lengthen the bone in cases where bone has been removed due to damage. the tenxor hybrid frame enables a surgeon to treat complex fractures around the joints with both pins and long transfixing wires. this attribute is especially useful for patients with multipart fractures near the ankle and knee. the system features advanced composite materials and is compatible with the hoffman ii snap-fit connection devices. spine implant systems through stryker spine, the company develops, manufactures and markets spine implant products including cervical, thoracolumbar and interbody systems used in spine injury, deformity and degenerative therapies. spine implant products comprise plates, rods, screws, connectors, spacers and cages, along with proprietary implant instrumentation. in 2004, stryker introduced oasys, a new fixation system developed to serve posterior cervical fusion, an emerging area of spine surgery. the product was introduced in the united states following a successful launch in the european market during 2003. also in 2004, stryker introduced the reflex hybrid anterior cervical plate and the avs vertebral spacer system. the reflex hybrid features the ability to utilize both fixed and variable angle screws. the avs pl spacers represented stryker's initial product offering in the vertebral spacer category. in 2004, the company acquired spinecore, a developer of artificial lumbar and cervical discs. current products under development include the flexicore lumbar artificial disc and the cervicore cervical artificial disc. flexicore is currently involved in a u.s. clinical study under an approved investigational device exemption (ide) granted by the fda. after completion of enrollment in the clinical study, a two-year patient follow-up is planned prior to submission of a pma application to the fda. submission of a pma application for the flexicore disc is currently estimated to occur as early as 2007. the company expects to submit an ide application to the fda for the cervicore cervical disc and begin a clinical study in 2005 which would lead to submission of a pma application in 2008. in 2003, stryker extended the xia spinal system by adding a new, low-profile hook system and additional components for anterior fixation in 2002, the company acquired sdi, adding the ray threaded fusion cage interbody system and the sr90d thoracolumbar system to the global product portfolio. also in 2002, stryker introduced enhanced versions of the xia titanium system and launched the original reflex anterior cervical plating system. stryker spine's other products include xia titanium, xia stainless steel, diapason, opus, oic, solis and the stabilis systems. the xia stainless steel system, an offering within the xia spinal system, is designed to better serve deformity correction requirements, while the xia titanium system is a broad spectrum of posterior implants designed to relieve pain by stabilizing the spine in the thoracic, lumbar and sacral regions. it is accompanied by instrumentation that simplifies the surgical procedures. diapason and opus represent the original stryker &quot;ball ring technology&quot; that has been on the market for over 10 years. launched in international markets, the oic, solis and stabilis systems are novel interbody fusion devices designed to improve stability and alignment during fusion. micro implant systems through stryker leibinger micro implants, the company develops, manufactures and markets plating systems and related products for craniomaxillofacial and hand surgery. in 2004, the company extended its universal fixation system for craniomaxillofacial surgery with the addition of a cranial/neurological application system and for the hand surgery market with the addition of a distal radius fixation system. the hummer 4 was 10 also introduced in 2004 for the ear, nose and throat (ent) market. in 2003, the company extended the universal fixation system with the launch of the midface system. also in 2003, bonesource classic was introduced, representing an advance in stryker's bonesource line of products to include ha. in 2002, the company launched the universal mandible plating system. this innovative system accommodates all mandibular fracture and reconstruction needs in one small, simple and easy-to-use system. the profyle modular hand plating system, launched in 2002, features simple instrumentation, low-profile implants and a wide variety of screw diameters and plate configurations. op-1 more than two decades ago, stryker saw the potential that orthobiologic products held for orthopaedics in an aging world and began a long-term investment in op-1, a proprietary, recombinant version of a signaling protein with multiple tissue regeneration properties. initial interest focused on the bone growth properties of op-1. op-1 was originally discovered by creative biomolecules, inc. (a company that subsequently merged into curis, inc.), with which stryker funded a long-term development collaboration with a vision to develop the first molecules to stimulate tissue regeneration. stryker's first therapeutic product, op-1 implant, is composed of recombinant human op-1 and a bioresorbable collagen matrix. op-1 is a natural protein that the human body makes to induce bone formation. in preclinical studies, op-1 induced the formation of new bone when implanted into bony defect sites. stryker was the first company to enter clinical studies with a bone morphogenic protein, bmp-7 (or op-1). studies have been performed in two challenging clinical indications: first, in non-union fractures of long bones, and second, in revision posterolateral spine fusion. in 2001, stryker received approval for a humanitarian device exemption (hde) from the fda. this approval in the united states is for the use of op-1 implant as an alternative to autograft in recalcitrant long-bone non-unions where use of autograft is not feasible and alternative treatments have failed. an hde, as defined by the fda, is for a product intended to benefit patients by treating or diagnosing a disease or condition that affects fewer than 4,000 individuals per year in the united states. as of december 31, 2004, more than 600 hospitals had received institutional review board (irb) approval for op-1 implant in patients in the united states under the hde. the company has received market approvals from regulators in europe, australia and canada for the indication of non-union fractures of the tibia that either failed prior to autograft treatment, or when autograft treatment is not feasible, for the treatment of long-bone non-unions secondary to trauma for the purpose of initiating new bone formation or for the clinical indication of long-bone non-unions. the company filed a marketing authorization application (maa) with the european medicines evaluation agency (emea) for certain op-1 uses, and the maa was accepted for filing in july 1999. on december 14, 2000, the committee for proprietary medicinal products (cpmp) in europe voted unanimously to recommend market authorization for op-1 implant (marketed under the name osigraft) for the indication of non-unions of the tibia that failed prior autograft treatment or when autograft is not feasible. final european approval was obtained in may 2001 for this indication. a new drug application with the therapeutic goods administration (tga) in australia was filed in december 1999, and in february 2001 the australian drug evaluation committee (adec) recommended the granting of marketing authorization for op-1 for treatment of long-bone non-unions secondary to trauma for the purpose of initiating new bone formation. approval from the tga was received in april 2001. in february 2002, the company received approval to market op-1 in canada for the clinical indication of long-bone non-unions. most recently, switzerland granted approval to market a form of op-1 in 2004 for the clinical indication of non-union tibial fractures. with this unique set of global approvals, the company began to market op-1. during the past three years, the increase in the number of patients treated has demonstrated the success of the sales effort and the trust that surgeons have developed in the product based on favorable patient outcomes. in the united states, stryker biotech received a further hde in may 2004 for revision posterolateral spine fusion following the completion of a pilot clinical study that indicated possible benefit of a new formulation of op-1, known as op-1 putty, for this application. 11 demand for op-1 implant and op-1 putty continued to increase during each quarter of 2004. stryker is committed to the further development of op-1 for spinal indications, including spinal stenosis. this degenerative condition, which is widespread in the over-65 population, causes severe pain in the lower back and legs as a result of abnormal movement in the lower spine. spinal fusion is used to stabilize the spine and reduce stenotic pain. fusing the spine with op-1 can eliminate the need for painful additional surgery to harvest bone from the patient's hip to use in the fusion process. currently, the company is conducting a multicenter pivotal trial in the united states and canada for posterolateral spine fusion using the new product, op-1 putty, to treat degenerative spondylolisthesis. in 2003 the company completed enrollment in this trial. the company currently anticipates that the evaluation of the 297 enrolled patients will be completed in late 2005. in october 2002, the company entered into an agreement with curis, inc., which eliminated all royalties payable to curis relating to future stryker sales of op-1. under the terms of the agreement, the company made a one-time cash payment to curis and subsequently owns the patents on its osteogenic protein technology and has exclusive worldwide rights under those patents to develop, market and sell op-1 for treatment, repair or replacement of bone and joint tissue. medsurg equipment medsurg equipment products include powered surgical instruments, surgical navigation systems, endoscopic products, medical video imaging equipment and hospital beds and stretchers. these products are designed and manufactured by stryker instruments, stryker endoscopy and stryker medical. the stryker instruments and stryker endoscopy product portfolios include micro-powered tools and instruments that are used in orthopaedics, functional endoscopic sinus surgery, neurosurgery, spinal surgery and plastic surgery. the total performance system (tps) is a universal surgical system that can be utilized within several medical specialties. the tps u2 drill, introduced in 2000, and tps burs are designed for use by spine surgeons and neurosurgeons, while the tps microdriver and tps sagittal saw are designed for use by sports physicians and plastic surgeons. the elite attachment line with a proprietary extendable bar system and saber drill for ent surgery were added in 2001 to further extend the tps system in spine, neurosurgery and ent applications. the tps system also powers stryker endoscopy shaver systems and certain products within stryker leibinger micro implants' hummer line. powered surgical instruments and operating room equipment through stryker instruments, the company offers a broad line of powered surgical instruments that are used by all surgical specialties for drilling, burring, rasping or cutting bone in small bone orthopaedics, neurosurgical, spine and ent procedures; wiring or pinning bone fractures; and preparing hip or knee surfaces for the placement of artificial implants. stryker instruments also manufactures an array of different attachments and cutting accessories for use by orthopaedic, neurological and small-bone specialists. in 2004, stryker launched the core electric console for use with its line of core powered instruments. the core platform console is a technological advancement on the precision and versatility offered by the tps console platform and offers integrated irrigation, multi-handpiece functionality and a standardized user interface. in 2003, stryker launched the core platform of micro-powered surgical instruments in the u.s. market. this platform includes specialty-driven handpieces, including those for spine and neurosurgery procedures, providing increased power and torque, greater speed and precision cutting. the core platform is a technological advancement on the precision and versatility offered by the tps platform. in 2002, the company launched system 5, its fifth-generation product offering of its flagship, heavy-duty, battery-powered surgical instruments. this line provides enhanced cutting speed and torque as well as versatility in an ergonomic handpiece system. applications for this line include total joint, trauma and sports medicine procedures. 12 stryker instruments also produces products that are utilized in conjunction with joint replacement surgery. in 2004, stryker introduced the revolution cement mixing system, representing an improved design over its existing advanced cement mixing system. the revolution system is designed to provide one solution for mixing all surgical cements, in addition to offering mixing efficacy, safety and ease of use. interpulse is a disposable, self-contained pulsed lavage system that is used by physicians to cleanse the surgical site during total joint arthroplasty. the constavac cbc ii blood conservation system is a postoperative wound drainage and blood reinfusion device that enables joint replacement patients to receive their own blood rather than donor blood. in 2002, the company introduced the painpump2, a disposable system that offers electronically controlled flow rates of pain medication directly to the surgical site to help manage a patient's postoperative discomfort. this innovative design allows the physician to program the pump and provides a patient-controlled analgesia (pca) option, previously unavailable to the market in a disposable pump. in 2003, stryker made product improvements to the painpump2, allowing the pump to be programmed to extend continuous peripheral nerve blockage during surgery and provide non-narcotic pain management following the procedure. as part of a broad surgical product portfolio, stryker works closely with hospitals and other health-care organizations to promote safety for patients and medical staff. the neptune waste management system represents stryker's leading product for waste management in the operating room. the self-contained device, first introduced in 2000 and consistently improved, collects and disposes of fluid and smoke waste from surgical procedures, minimizing the need for operator intervention and therefore the risk of exposure. in 2004, the company introduced the neptune bronze platform, which provides a low-cost alternative to its operating room waste management solution. stryker also markets the sterishield t4 personal protection system, combining a helmet, hood and gown to help provide protection for operating room personnel from infection, cross-contamination and harmful microorganisms. interventional pain products through stryker instruments, the company offers spineplex, a variation of its surgical simplex bone cement for applications in both vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty. in 2004, stryker also introduced a next-generation radiofrequency system for chronic pain management that greatly enhances the user interface while simplifying the system operation. in 2002, stryker acquired the dekompressor product line from pain concepts inc. the dekompressor is a single-use disposable device indicated for the percutaneous removal of disc nucleus material, offering an early, less invasive approach to mitigating back and leg pain associated with contained lumbar herniations. this important advance in lumbar disc pain management, along with stryker's offerings in percutaneous cement delivery and radiofrequency denervation, allows stryker to focus on the interventional pain management marketplace. surgical navigation systems through stryker instruments, the company launched the navigation system ii cart and camera as well as hip 2.0, uni-knee, and knee 3.0 for use with the stryker navigation system in 2004. all of these new product offerings are imageless platforms incorporating more intuitive hardware and software functions that result in increased ease of use, less invasive procedures and reduced surgical time. in 2002, the company introduced its new surgical navigation software module for fluoroscopic image-guided surgery. this software, designed for the stryker navigation system, allows surgeons to employ image-guided surgery in conjunction with intraoperative fluoroscopic images. endoscopic products and medical video imaging equipment stryker endoscopy produces and markets medical video-imaging and communications equipment and instruments for arthroscopy, general surgery and urology. stryker endoscopy has established a position of leadership in the production of medical imaging video technology and accessories for minimally invasive surgery, as well as communications equipment to provide local or worldwide interconnectivity. products include medical video cameras, digital documentation equipment, digital image software, arthroscopes, laparoscopes, powered surgical instruments, sports medicine instrumentation and implants, radio frequency ablation systems, irrigation fluid management systems, i-suite operating room solutions and state-of-the-art equipment for telemedicine and 13 enterprise-wide connectivity. stryker's line of rigid scopes, which range in diameter from 2.3 millimeters to 10 millimeters, contains a series of precision lenses as well as fiber optics that allow the physician to view internal anatomy with a high degree of clarity. in 2004, stryker introduced the next-generation 3-chip camera, the 1088hd, bringing high-definition video to the operating room. to accommodate the recording of high-definition images, the company introduced the stryker digital capture (sdc) hd digital documentation system. additionally, stryker launched its image portal business to provide state-of-the-art digital image capture manipulation and storage to orthopaedic clinics and offices. another milestone was the introduction of best-in-class scope technology with the u-500 flexvision flexible ureteroscope. stryker also launched its formula shaver system, which is small, light and equipped with radio frequency identification (rfid), which facilitates communication between the blade and console. in 2003, stryker extended its market-leading 988 digital 3-chip camera by introducing a fully autoclavable model for more efficient sterilization. the 3-chip cameras continue to provide multispecialty video imaging through several product generations. in addition, the company introduced the stryker integrated delivery network (sidne), a voice-activated operating room network, in 2003. also in 2003, stryker signed an exclusive license and distribution services agreement with a third party to provide distribution services for certain allograft products for sports medicine applications in the united states. allografts are used in numerous sports medicine procedures, including the repair of anterior cruciate ligaments. in 2002, stryker continued its leading market share position with the i-suite operating room. an enhancement that changed the way minimally invasive surgery is documented is the sdc pro 2 surgical dvd documentation system, which was developed to store high quality digital images to a dvd drive and distribute images on an existing hospital network. hospital beds and stretchers stryker medical is a leader in the stretcher products segment, offering a wide variety of stretchers customized to fit the needs of acute care and specialty surgical care facilities. in 2004, stryker medical launched a completely new concept in stretcher design, the m-series stretcher. with a focus on patient safety and product mobility, the m-series features stryker's glideaway siderails that provide maximum coverage when raised and a zero-transfer-gap when lowered; a 700-pound weight capacity; an integrated transfer board; and four-wheel, steel- ring brakes for stability. the m-series provides customers with three different mobility options to suit their transportation needs: a fifth wheel for enhanced steering, big wheel technology for increased maneuverability and the self-propelled zoom technology. all three mobility options provide a safe and comfortable surface for patients while reducing the risk of back injury for hospital staff. stryker also produces beds that are designed to fit the unique needs of specialty departments within the acute care environment. new in 2004, the ma204 medical/surgical bed features low bed-height for safe patient ingress and exit. the ma204 also offers the optional chaperone center-of-gravity bed-exit system with zone control to help prevent patient falls. zone control is a feature that enables the caregiver to adjust the sensitivity of the bed-exit system to accommodate different patient needs. stryker's innovative design extended to the labor and delivery market in 2004 with the introduction of the ld304 birthing bed, which features a removable foot section with the unique lock-rite system. stryker has a complete line of icu beds for critical care and step-down units. the beds incorporate advanced features that facilitate patient care, such as in-bed scales that accurately weigh the patient regardless of bed position and a radiolucent surface that facilitates chest x-rays without moving the patient from the bed. stryker also offers a continuum of mattresses as an option with its frames. the company's legacy of innovation in the prehospital market continued in 2004 with the launch of the mx-pro bt ambulance cot with a weight capacity of 850 pounds for use in the emergency medical services transport market. to facilitate patient transport up and down stairs, stryker offers the stairpro series of stair chairs. 14 other other includes physical therapy services. physiotherapy associates provides physical, occupational and speech therapy services to patients recovering from orthopaedic or neurological illness and injury through a network of 428 outpatient physical therapy centers in 25 states and the district of columbia. physiotherapy associates works closely with referring physicians to design and execute rehabilitation protocols with the goal of quick recoveries for injured workers, athletes and other patients. product development most of the company's products and product improvements have been developed internally. the company maintains close working relationships with physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. new and improved products play a critical role in the company's sales growth. the company continues to place emphasis on the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand its existing product lines. the company has a decentralized research and development focus, with manufacturing locations responsible for new product development and product improvements. research, development and engineering functions at the manufacturing locations maintain relationships with distribution locations and customers to understand changes in the market and product needs. total expenditures for product research, development and engineering were $211.0 million in 2004, $180.2 million in 2003 and $141.4 million in 2002. research, development and engineering expenses represented 5.0% of sales in both 2004 and 2003, compared with 4.7% of sales in 2002. the higher spending levels are the result of final development spending in advance of the company's product launches and continued focus on new product development for anticipated future product launches, together with, beginning in the third quarter of 2004, spending associated with the continued development of products acquired from spinecore. recent new product introductions in the orthopaedic implants and medsurg segments are more fully described under the caption &quot; product sales &quot; on pages 4 through 14 of this report. marketing domestic sales accounted for 65% of total revenues in 2004. most of the company's products are marketed directly to more than 6,000 hospitals and to other health-care facilities and doctors by approximately 2,350 sales and marketing personnel in the united states. stryker primarily maintains separate and dedicated sales forces for each of its principal product lines to provide focus and a high level of expertise to each medical specialty served. international sales accounted for 35% of total revenues in 2004. the company's products are sold in more than 100 countries through more than 1,750 local dealers and direct sales efforts. local dealer support and direct sales are coordinated by approximately 1,900 sales and marketing personnel. stryker distributes its products through sales subsidiaries and branches with offices located in argentina, australia, austria, belgium, brazil, canada, chile, denmark, finland, france, germany, greece, hong kong, india, italy, japan, korea, mexico, the netherlands, new zealand, norway, poland, portugal, romania, singapore, south africa, spain, sweden, switzerland, taiwan and the united kingdom. stryker exports products to dealers and to customers in africa, bangladesh, china, the cis (former soviet union), cyprus, india, indonesia, ireland, korea, latin america, malaysia, the middle east, the philippines, taiwan, thailand, turkey, vietnam and yugoslavia. additional information regarding the company's international and domestic operations and sales appears in &quot; note 12 - segment and geographic data &quot; on pages 52 through 54 of this report. the company's business is generally not seasonal in nature; however, the number of orthopaedic implant surgeries is lower during the summer months. 15 competition the company is one of four leading competitors in the united states for orthopaedic reconstructive products. the three other leading competitors are depuy orthopaedics, inc. (a subsidiary of johnson &amp; johnson), zimmer holdings, inc., and biomet, inc. while competition abroad varies from area to area, the company believes it is also a leading player in the international markets with these same companies as its principal competitors. in the trauma implant segment, stryker is one of five leaders competing principally with synthes-stratec, smith &amp; nephew orthopaedics (a division of smith &amp; nephew plc), zimmer holdings, inc., and depuy orthopaedics, inc. in the spinal implant segment, the company is one of four leaders, including the principal competitors medtronic sofamor danek, inc. (a subsidiary of medtronic, inc.), depuy spine, inc. (a subsidiary of johnson &amp; johnson), and synthes-stratec. in the craniomaxillofacial segment, stryker is one of four leaders, together with the principal competitors synthes-stratec, walter lorenz surgical, inc. (a subsidiary of biomet, inc.), and kls martin l.p. the company believes that several companies are engaged in the research and development of morphogenic proteins for the repair of hard and soft tissues that would compete with the company's op-1 product. medtronic sofamor danek has received fda approval for its recombinant bone morphogenetic protein (&quot;rhbmp-2&quot;) for certain spine, trauma and orthopaedic indications including the treatment of acute, open fractures of the tibial shaft and spinal fusion surgeries. a number of companies currently provide various other therapies, including allografts, bone fillers and electrical stimulation devices for the treatment, repair or replacement of bone and joint tissue. the company believes that its op-1 product, which is approved for limited trauma and spine indications in certain markets and is currently in clinical trials for other indications, would ultimately compete with these products and with traditional therapies, such as autograft and allograft. in the powered surgical instruments segment, stryker is one of three leaders, together with the principal domestic competitors medtronic midas rex, inc. (a subsidiary of medtronic, inc.), and linvatec, inc. (a subsidiary of conmed corporation). these companies are also competitors in the international segments, along with aesculap-werke ag (a division of b. braun melsungen ag), a large european manufacturer. in the surgical navigation segment, stryker is one of five principal competitors including medtronic surgical navigation technologies (a division of medtronic, inc.), brainlab inc. (a subsidiary of brainlab ag), aesculap ag &amp; co. kg (a division of b. braun melsungen ag), radionics, inc. (a subsidiary of tyco international ltd.), and ge medical systems navigation and visualization, inc. (a subsidiary of general electric company). in the arthroscopy segment, the company is one of four leaders, together with the principal competitors smith &amp; nephew endoscopy (a division of smith &amp; nephew plc), linvatec, inc., and arthrex, inc. in the laparoscopic imaging products segment, the company is one of four leaders, together with the principal competitors karl storz gmbh &amp; co. (a german company), acmi corporation and olympus optical co. ltd. (a japanese company). the company's primary competitor in the patient-handling segment is hill-rom company, inc. (a division of hillenbrand industries, inc.). in the specialty stretcher segment, the primary competitors are hausted, inc. (a subsidiary of steris corporation), hill-rom company, inc., and midmark hospital products group (a subsidiary of ohio medical instrument company, inc.). in the emergency medical services segment, ferno-washington, inc., is the company's principal competitor. in the united states outpatient physical and occupational rehabilitation segment, the company's primary competitors are independent, therapist-owned practices and hospital-based services, in addition to other national rehabilitation companies, including healthsouth corporation and novacare rehabilitation (a division of select medical corporation). 16 the principal factors that the company believes differentiate it in these highly competitive market segments and enable it to compete effectively are innovation, reliability, service and reputation. the company is not able to predict the effect that continuing efforts to reduce health-care expenses generally and hospital costs in particular will have on the future sales of its products or its competitive position. (see &quot; regulation and product quality .&quot;) the company believes that its competitive position in the future will depend to a large degree on its ability to develop new products and make improvements to existing products. while the company does not consider patents a major factor in its overall competitive success, patents and trademarks are significant to the extent that a product or attribute of a product represents a unique design or process. patent or trademark protection of such products restricts competitors from duplicating these unique designs and features. stryker seeks to obtain patent protection on its products whenever possible. the company currently owns approximately 860 united states patents and 1,450 international patents. manufacturing and sources of supply the company's manufacturing processes consist primarily of precision machining, metal fabrication and assembly operations; the forging and investment casting of cobalt chrome; and the finishing of cobalt chrome and titanium. in addition, the company is the sole manufacturer of its op-1 product. approximately 9% of the company's cost of sales in 2004 represented finished products that were purchased complete from outside suppliers. the company also purchases parts and components, such as forgings, castings, gears, bearings, casters and electrical components, and uses outside sources for certain finishing operations, such as plating, hardening and coating of machined components and sterilization of certain products. the principal raw materials used by the company are stainless steel, aluminum, cobalt chrome and titanium alloys. in all, purchased parts and components from outside sources were approximately 41% of the total cost of sales in 2004. while the company relies on single sources for certain purchased materials and services, it believes alternate sources are available if needed. the company has not experienced any significant difficulty in the past in obtaining the materials necessary to meet its production schedules. substantially all products manufactured by the company are stocked in inventory, while certain products manufactured within the company's medsurg segment are assembled to order. regulation and product quality the medical device amendments of 1976 to the federal food, drug and cosmetic act; the safe medical devices act of 1990; and regulations issued or proposed thereunder provide for regulation by the fda of the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, including most of the company's products. the fda's quality system regulations set forth standards for the company's product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of the company's facilities by the fda. there are also certain requirements of state, local and foreign governments that must be complied with in the manufacturing and marketing of the company's products. the company believes that the manufacturing and quality control procedures it employs meet the requirements of these regulations. most of the company's new products fall into fda classifications that require notification of and review by the fda before marketing, submitted as a 510(k). the company's flexicore and cervicore artificial disc products and op-1 products require extensive clinical testing, consisting of safety and efficacy studies, followed by pma applications for specific surgical indications. stryker also is subject to the laws that govern the manufacture and distribution of medical devices of each country in which the company manufactures or sells products. the member states of the european union (&quot;eu&quot;) have adopted the european medical device directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all eu member countries. these regulations require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in eu member countries to obtain community european (ce) marks for their products. stryker has authorization to apply the ce mark to its hip, knee, upper extremity, trauma, spine and micro implant systems, 17 bone cement, powered surgical instruments, surgical navigation systems, endoscopic products, medical video imaging equipment and hospital beds and stretchers. the company's op-1 product has been considered a drug under the regulations for europe, australia and japan. the company's physiotherapy associates, inc., subsidiary is subject to various federal and state regulations regarding the provision of physical therapy services. the primary entities administering these regulations are the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services, champus, state workers compensation agencies, state insurance commissioners and state licensing agencies. government agencies, legislative bodies and private-sector initiatives to limit the growth of health-care costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are continuing in markets where the company does business. it is impossible to predict at this time the long-term impact of such cost-containment measures on the company's future business. employees at december 31, 2004, the company had 15,891 employees worldwide, including 5,704 involved in manufacturing, warehousing and distribution operations; 4,307 in sales and marketing; 936 in research, development and engineering; 3,406 providing physical, occupational and speech therapy; and the balance in general management and administration. certain international employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are updated annually. the company believes that its employee relations are satisfactory. item 2. properties the company has the following properties: square owned/ location segment use feet leased mahwah, new jersey orthopaedic implants manufacturing of reconstructive implants 475,000 owned limerick, ireland orthopaedic implants manufacturing of reconstructive implants and op-1 130,000 owned herouville, france orthopaedic implants manufacturing of reconstructive implants 130,000 owned kiel, germany orthopaedic implants manufacturing of trauma implants 147,000 owned selzach, switzerland orthopaedic implants manufacturing of trauma implants 78,000 owned bordeaux, france orthopaedic implants manufacturing of spinal implants 74,000 owned bordeaux, france orthopaedic implants manufacturing of spinal implants 31,000 leased carrigtwohill, ireland orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment manufacturing of reconstructive implants and powered surgical instruments 154,000 owned hopkinton, massachusetts orthopaedic implants manufacturing of op-1 69,000 leased west lebanon, new hampshire orthopaedic implants manufacturing of op-1 106,000 owned portage, michigan medsurg equipment manufacturing of powered surgical instruments and patient-handling and emergency medical equipment 401,000 owned arroyo, puerto rico medsurg equipment manufacturing of powered surgical instruments and endoscopic products 220,000 leased kalamazoo, michigan medsurg equipment manufacturing of patient-handling equipment 90,000 owned 18 square owned/ location segment use feet leased l'islet, canada medsurg equipment manufacturing of patient-handling equipment 134,000 owned san jose, california medsurg equipment manufacturing of endoscopic products 165,000 leased flower mound, texas medsurg equipment manufacturing of endoscopic products 73,000 leased freiburg, germany medsurg equipment manufacturing of micro implants and surgical 88,000 owned navigation systems stetten, germany medsurg equipment manufacturing of micro implants 29,000 owned kalamazoo, michigan other corporate headquarters 35,000 leased various other physical therapy clinics 1,599,000 leased in addition to the above, the company maintains administrative and sales offices and warehousing and distribution facilities in various countries, including the united states, argentina, australia, austria, belgium, brazil, canada, chile, denmark, finland, france, germany, greece, hong kong, india, italy, japan, korea, mexico, the netherlands, new zealand, norway, poland, portugal, romania, singapore, south africa, spain, sweden, switzerland and the united kingdom. each of the properties listed above is suitable and adequate for the manufacture and distribution of the company's products. to meet anticipated future demand for certain product offerings, the company is currently expanding certain manufacturing and distribution facilities including facilities for the manufacturing of op-1, spinal implants, powered surgical instruments and patient-handling and emergency medical equipment. item 3. legal proceedings the company is a defendant in various proceedings, legal actions and claims arising in the normal course of business, including proceedings related to product, labor, intellectual property and other matters. such matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable with assurance. the company records amounts for losses that are deemed to be probable and subject to reasonable estimate. the company does not anticipate material losses as a result of these proceedings beyond amounts already provided for. item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders not applicable. executive officers certain information with respect to the executive officers of the company is set forth in item 10 of this report. part ii item 5. market for the registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities the company's common stock is traded on the new york stock exchange under the symbol syk. quarterly stock prices appear under the caption &quot; summary of quarterly data (unaudited) &quot; on page 56 of this report and dividend information for the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003 under the caption &quot; summary of operations &quot; in item 6 below. the company's board of directors considers a year-end cash dividend annually at its december meeting. 19 in the fourth quarter of 2004, the company issued 240 shares of common stock as performance incentive awards to certain employees. the shares were not registered under the securities act of 1933 based on the conclusion that the awards would not be events of sale within the meaning of section 2(a)(3) of the act. on february 28, 2005, there were 3,900 stockholders of record of the company's common stock. item 6. selected financial data the financial information for each of the five years in the period ended december 31, 2004 is set forth below (dollars in millions, except per share amounts): summary of operations 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 net sales $4,262.3 $3,625.3 $3,011.6 $2,602.3 $2,289.4 cost of sales 1,510.1 1,312.4 1,111.2 963.8 815.2 gross profit 2,752.2 2,312.9 1,900.4 1,638.5 1,474.2 research, development and engineering expenses 211.0 180.2 141.4 142.1 122.2 selling, general and administrative expenses 1,652.2 1,416.0 1,165.4 985.4 885.6 intangibles amortization 47.8 45.4 28.9 38.4 34.7 purchased in-process research and development 120.8 -- -- -- -- restructuring and acquisition-related charges (credits) -- -- 17.2 0.6 (1.0) 2,031.8 1,641.6 1,352.9 1,166.5 1,041.5 operating income 720.4 671.3 547.5 472.0 432.7 other expense (income) 3.4 18.8 40.8 66.3 97.8 earnings before income taxes and extraordinary item 717.0 652.5 506.7 405.7 334.9 income taxes 251.3 199.0 161.1 133.9 113.9 earnings before extraordinary item 465.7 453.5 345.6 271.8 221.0 extraordinary loss, net of income taxes -- -- -- (4.8) -- net earnings $465.7 $453.5 $345.6 $267.0 $221.0 ==== ==== ==== ==== ==== net earnings per share of common stock (a) : basic $1.16 $1.14 $.87 $.69 (b) $.57 diluted $1.14 $1.11 $.85 $.67 (b) $.55 dividend per share of common stock (a) $.09 $.07 $.06 $.05 $.04 average number of shares outstanding - in millions (a) : basic 401.2 397.8 395.1 392.5 390.3 diluted 410.3 406.8 407.7 406.1 402.3 (a) adjusted for the two-for-one stock splits effective may 12, 2000 and may 14, 2004. (b) excludes net extraordinary loss per share of $.01 basic and $.01 diluted. 20 financial and statistical data 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 cash and marketable securities 349.4 65.9 37.8 50.1 54.0 working capital 1,029.1 563.2 443.8 459.7 379.6 current ratio 1.9 1.7 1.6 1.9 1.6 property, plant and equipment - net 700.5 604.7 519.2 444.0 378.1 capital expenditures 187.8 144.5 139.0 161.9 80.7 depreciation and amortization 250.9 229.7 186.1 172.0 168.6 total assets 4,083.8 3,159.1 2,815.5 2,423.6 2,430.8 long-term debt, including current maturities 10.0 26.1 501.7 722.6 1,012.5 stockholders' equity 2,752.0 2,154.8 1,498.2 1,056.2 854.9 return on average equity 19.0% 24.8% 27.1% 27.9% 29.0% net cash provided by operating activities 593.3 648.5 516.2 473.2 331.8 number of stockholders of record 3,784 3,084 2,983 2,886 2,904 number of employees 15,891 14,762 14,045 12,839 12,084 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive level overview stryker corporation (the &quot;company&quot; or &quot;stryker&quot;) is a leader in the worldwide orthopaedic market and is one of the world's largest medical device companies. stryker delivers results through a wide range of capabilities including joint replacements, trauma, spine and micro implant systems, orthobiologics, powered surgical instruments, surgical navigation systems and endoscopic products as well as patient handling and emergency medical equipment. stryker also provides outpatient physical therapy services in the united states. the company segregates its operations into two reportable business segments: orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment. the orthopaedic implants segment sells orthopaedic reconstructive (hip, knee and shoulder), trauma, spine and micro implant systems, bone cement and the bone growth factor osteogenic protein-1 (op-1). the medsurg equipment segment sells powered surgical instruments, surgical navigation systems, endoscopic products, medical video imaging equipment and hospital beds and stretchers. the other category includes physical therapy services and corporate administration, interest expense and interest income. domestic sales accounted for 65% of total revenues in 2004. most of the company's products are marketed directly to more than 6,000 hospitals and to doctors and other health-care facilities by approximately 2,350 sales and marketing personnel in the united states. stryker primarily maintains separate and dedicated sales forces for each of its principal product lines to provide focus and a high level of expertise to each medical specialty served. international sales accounted for 35% of total revenues in 2004. the company's products are sold in more than 100 countries through more than 1,750 local dealers and direct sales forces. local dealer support and direct sales are coordinated by approximately 1,900 local and regional sales and marketing personnel. stryker distributes its products through sales subsidiaries and branches with offices located in argentina, australia, austria, belgium, brazil, canada, chile, denmark, finland, france, germany, greece, hong kong, india, italy, japan, korea, mexico, the netherlands, new zealand, norway, poland, portugal, romania, singapore, south africa, spain, sweden, switzerland, taiwan and the united kingdom. stryker exports products to dealers and to customers in africa, bangladesh, china, the cis (former soviet union), cyprus, india, indonesia, ireland, korea, latin america, malaysia, the middle east, the philippines, taiwan, thailand, turkey, vietnam and yugoslavia. the company's business is generally not seasonal in nature; however, the number of orthopaedic implant surgeries is lower during the summer months. 21 in the third quarter of 2004, the company completed its acquisition, by merger, of all of the outstanding stock of spinecore, inc. (spinecore), for an upfront payment of $120.0 million in cash plus certain transaction costs. spinecore is a developer of artificial lumbar and cervical discs. terms of the transaction also include milestone and royalty payments of up to an additional $240.0 million upon the achievement of commercialization of spinecore's products in the united states, which is not expected to occur before 2008. this acquisition is expected to enhance the company's presence in the spinal implant market, an important growth area within its orthopaedic implants segment. additional details, including the financial statement impact resulting from the acquisition, are included in results of operations . outlook for 2005 the company's outlook for 2005 continues to be optimistic regarding the markets it participates in and the underlying growth rates in orthopaedic procedures. the company expects diluted net earnings per share for 2005 to approximate $1.74, excluding the anticipated impact from the recognition of the cost of employee stock options as more fully described in other matters . the financial expectations for 2005 include a net sales increase of approximately 15% as a result of strong growth in shipments of orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment, favorable foreign currency exchange rate movements and higher revenue from physical therapy services. if foreign currency exchange rates hold at current levels, the company anticipates a favorable impact on net sales in the first quarter and full year of 2005 of approximately $15 million and $75 million, respectively. excluding the effect of foreign currency exchange rates, the company expects sales growth of approximately 13% in 2005, which is comparable to the 14% sales growth, excluding the effect of foreign currency exchange rates, reported for the full year of 2004. the company has paid off substantially all previously outstanding borrowings under its existing credit facilities and eliminated the amounts previously outstanding under its accounts receivable securitization facility and expects to generate cash earnings (net earnings plus noncash adjustments) in excess of its needs to fund future working capital requirements. the company anticipates investing in future business growth, including business and product line acquisitions to supplement its current product offerings, loaner instrumentation for surgical implants in support of new product launches and future building expansions, including manufacturing facility expansions for certain divisions. results of operations the table below outlines the components of the consolidated statements of earnings as a percentage of net sales and the year-to-year percentage change in dollar amounts: percentage of net sales percentage change 2004 2003 2002 2004/2003 2003/2002 net sales 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 18% 20% cost of sales 35.4 36.2 36.9 15 18 gross profit 64.6 63.8 63.1 19 22 research, development and engineering expenses 5.0 5.0 4.7 17 27 selling, general and administrative expenses 38.8 39.1 38.7 17 22 intangibles amortization 1.1 1.3 1.0 5 57 purchased in-process research and development 2.8 -- -- -- -- restructuring and acquisition-related items -- -- 0.6 -- (100) operating income 16.9 18.5 18.2 7 23 other expense (income) 0.1 0.5 1.4 (82) (54) earnings before income taxes 16.8 18.0 16.8 10 29 income taxes 5.9 5.5 5.3 26 24 net earnings 10.9% 12.5% 11.5% 3 31 ==== ==== ==== 22 the table below sets forth domestic/international and product line sales information: net sales (in millions) percentage change 2004 2003 2002 2004/2003 2003/2002 domestic/international sales: domestic $2,753.0 $2,333.4 $1,973.7 18% 18% international 1,509.3 1,291.9 1,037.9 17 24 total net sales $4,262.3 $3,625.3 $3,011.6 18 20 ====== ====== ====== product line sales: orthopaedic implants $2,562.5 $2,192.5 $1,798.3 17 22 medsurg equipment 1,454.9 1,209.8 1,011.8 20 20 physical therapy services 244.9 223.0 201.5 10 11 total net sales $4,262.3 $3,625.3 $3,011.6 18 20 ====== ====== ====== the table below sets forth additional sales growth information for significant products within the company's orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment product lines on both a reported basis and excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates: percentage change 2004/2003 2003/2002 constant constant reported currency reported currency worldwide orthopaedic implants sales: hips 14% 9% 20% 14% knees 18 14 18 13 trauma 17 11 25 15 spine 18 15 40 35 micro implants 16 12 11 4 worldwide medsurg equipment sales: powered surgical instruments and surgical navigation systems 17 15 21 17 endoscopic products and medical video imaging equipment 21 20 21 19 patient handling and emergency medical equipment 25 23 12 10 23 2004 compared with 2003 stryker corporation's net sales increased 18% in 2004 to $4,262.3 million from $3,625.3 million in 2003. net sales grew by 13% as a result of increased unit volume and changes in product mix; 3% due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates; and 2% related to higher selling prices. domestic sales were $2,753.0 million for 2004, representing an increase of 18% as a result of strong shipments of orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment and higher revenue from physical therapy services. international sales were $1,509.3 million for 2004, representing an increase of 17% as a result of higher shipments of orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment. the impact of foreign currency comparisons to the dollar value of international sales was favorable by $120.8 million for 2004. excluding the impact of foreign currency, international sales increased 7% in 2004. worldwide sales of orthopaedic implants were $2,562.5 million for 2004, representing an increase of 17% as a result of higher shipments of reconstructive, trauma, spine and micro implant systems, bone cement and the bone growth factor op-1. excluding the impact of foreign currency, sales of orthopaedic implants increased 13% for the year. sales of hip implant systems increased 14% during the year, 9% excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates. sales growth for hip products slowed during 2004 primarily due to tougher comparables resulting from the launch of the trident ceramic-on-ceramic hip system in the united states in the second quarter of 2003. sales of knee implant systems increased 18% during the year, 14% excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, due to strong growth in scorpio and duracon knee systems in the united states. sales of trauma implant systems increased 17% during the year, 11% excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as a result of the full-scale launch of the gamma3 hip fracture system in the united states, japan and europe in 2004. strong growth in the company's t2 nailing system, both in the united states and internationally, also drove trauma sales growth in 2004. sales of spinal implant systems increased 18% during the year, 15% excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to strong sales growth of cervical and interbody products in the united states. sales of micro implant systems increased 16% during the year, 12% excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as a result of solid worldwide sales of craniomaxillofacial products. worldwide sales of medsurg equipment were $1,454.9 million for 2004, representing an increase of 20% as a result of higher shipments of powered surgical instruments and surgical navigation systems, endoscopic products, and patient handling and emergency medical equipment. excluding the impact of foreign currency, sales of medsurg equipment increased 18% for the year. sales of powered surgical instruments and surgical navigation systems increased 17% during the year, 15% excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, due to strong sales growth in heavy-duty powered instruments, interventional pain products and surgical navigation systems both domestically and in europe. sales of endoscopic products increased 21% during the year, 20% excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as a result of solid growth in medical video imaging equipment and sports medicine products in the united states. sales of patient handling and emergency medical equipment increased 25% during the year, 23% excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, due to strong growth in hospital beds and emergency medical equipment both domestically and in the international markets. physical therapy services revenues were $244.9 million for 2004, representing an increase of 10% with 6% of the growth resulting from new physical therapy centers and 4% of the increase coming from higher revenues at existing centers. cost of sales represented 35.4% of sales in 2004 compared with 36.2% in 2003. the lower cost of sales percentage in 2004 is partially due to increased average selling prices for the company's products and improved manufacturing efficiencies at several of the company's manufacturing and distribution facilities, including its recently completed mahwah, new jersey, manufacturing and distribution facility, and lower purchase prices of raw materials, including cobalt chromium and titanium alloys. research, development and engineering expenses represented 5.0% of sales in both 2004 and 2003. these expenses increased 17% in 2004 to $211.0 million. the higher spending level is the result of final development spending in advance of the company's product launches in 2004 and continued focus on new product 24 development for anticipated future product launches, together with, beginning in the third quarter of 2004, spending associated with the continued development of products acquired from spinecore. new product introductions in 2004 in the orthopaedic implants segment included the restoration modular hip system in the united states and europe, the triathlon knee system in the united states and europe, the scorpio nrg knee and centpillar hip systems in the japanese market, a worldwide launch of the oasys posterior cervical fixation system and a full-scale launch of the gamma3 hip fracture system in the united states, japan and europe. the triathlon system represents the company's evolutionary design developed to more closely reproduce natural knee motion and to provide mobility with stability through more than 150 degrees of flexion. within the medsurg equipment segment, new product introductions in 2004 included a new video platform with the 1088 high definition camera, the first fully digital, high-definition, progressive-scan medical video camera, and the new m-series stretcher, designed to fit the needs of acute care and specialty surgical care facilities. selling, general and administrative expenses increased 17% in 2004 and represented 38.8% of sales compared with 39.1% in 2003. the 17% increase in selling, general and administrative expenses is partially due to an increase in sales commission expense as a result of the 18% increase in net sales in 2004, increased meeting costs and higher amortization expense associated with loaner instrument sets. in addition, the company incurred a $12.1 million increase in insurance costs during 2004 resulting from increased premiums charged by third-party insurers and its wholly owned captive insurance company established in 2003 as more fully described in other matters . the purchased in-process research and development charge of $120.8 million recorded in the third quarter of 2004 relates to the acquisition of spinecore, a development stage company. at the date of the acquisition, the artificial lumbar and cervical spinal disc implant technologies acquired were in preliminary stages of clinical studies in the united states and had not yet reached technological feasibility. the upfront payment of $120.0 million, plus certain transaction costs, was allocated to assets acquired, purchased in-process research and development and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. interest expense declined to $6.8 million in 2004 from $22.6 million in 2003, primarily as a result of lower outstanding debt balances. the effective income tax rate was 35.0% in 2004. the reported effective income tax rate for 2004 reflects the nondeductibility for u.s. income tax purposes of the purchased in-process research and development charge recognized pursuant to the aforementioned acquisition of spinecore. excluding this nondeductible charge, the company's effective income tax rate was reduced to 30.0% in 2004 compared with 30.5% in 2003 primarily as a result of increased manufacturing in lower tax jurisdictions such as ireland and puerto rico. net earnings increased 3% to $465.7 million from $453.5 million in 2003; basic net earnings per share increased 2% to $1.16 in 2004 from $1.14 in 2003; and diluted net earnings per share increased 3% to $1.14 in 2004 from $1.11 in 2003. excluding the impact of the $120.8 million purchased in-process research and development charge recorded in the third quarter of 2004, adjusted net earnings increased 29% from $453.5 million in 2003 to $586.5 million in 2004; adjusted basic net earnings per share increased 28% from $1.14 in 2003 to $1.46 in 2004; and adjusted diluted net earnings per share increased 29% from $1.11 in 2003 to $1.43 in 2004. this adjusted financial measure does not replace the presentation of the company's reported financial results stated under generally accepted accounting principles (gaap). the company has provided this supplemental non-gaap financial measure because it provides meaningful information regarding the company's results on a consistent and comparable basis for the periods presented. management uses this non-gaap financial measure for reviewing the operating results of its business segments and for analyzing potential future business trends in connection with its budget process. in addition, the company believes investors will utilize this information to evaluate period-to-period results and to better understand potential future operating results. the company encourages investors and other users of these financial statements to review its consolidated financial statements and other publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely solely on any single financial measure. the reconciliation of this non-gaap financial measure is as follows (in millions): 25 2004 2003 % change reported net earnings $465.7 $453.5 3% purchased in-process research and development 120.8 -- -- adjusted net earnings $586.5 $453.5 29 ==== ==== basic net earnings per share: reported basic net earnings per share $1.16 $1.14 2 purchased in-process research and development $.30 -- -- adjusted basic net earnings per share $1.46 $1.14 28 diluted net earnings per share: reported diluted net earnings per share $1.14 $1.11 3 purchased in-process research and development $.29 -- -- adjusted diluted net earnings per share $1.43 $1.11 29 2003 compared with 2002 stryker corporation's net sales increased 20% in 2003 to $3,625.3 million from $3,011.6 million in 2002. net sales grew by 12% as a result of increased unit volume and changes in product mix; 5% due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates; 2% related to higher selling prices; and 1% as a result of acquired businesses. domestic sales were $2,333.4 million for 2003, representing an increase of 18% as a result of strong shipments of orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment and higher revenue from physical therapy services. international sales were $1,291.9 million for 2003, representing an increase of 24% as a result of higher shipments of orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment. the impact of foreign currency comparisons to the dollar value of international sales was favorable by $145.9 million for 2003. excluding the impact of foreign currency, international sales increased 10% in 2003. worldwide sales of orthopaedic implants were $2,192.5 million for 2003, representing an increase of 22% as a result of higher shipments of reconstructive, trauma, spine and micro implant systems, bone cement and the bone growth factor op-1. excluding the impact of foreign currency, sales of orthopaedic implants increased 16% for the year. sales of hip implant systems increased 20% during the year, 14% excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates. sales growth for hip products was primarily driven by the launch of the trident ceramic-on-ceramic hip system in the united states in the second quarter of 2003. sales of knee implant systems increased 18% during the year, 13% excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, due to strong growth in scorpio and duracon knee systems in the united states and in scorpio systems in japan and the pacific region. sales of trauma implant systems increased 25% during the year, 15% excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as a result of strong growth in the intramedullary nail product portfolio in the united states, led by the t2 nailing system, and strong growth in hip fracture and external fixation products in japan. sales of spinal implant systems increased 40% during the year, 35% excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily due to incremental sales of interbody cages resulting from the third quarter 2002 acquisition of surgical dynamics inc. in the united states and strong domestic and international growth in thoracolumbar implant products. worldwide sales of medsurg equipment were $1,209.8 million for 2003, representing an increase of 20% as a result of higher shipments of powered surgical instruments and surgical navigation systems, endoscopic products, and patient handling and emergency medical equipment. excluding the impact of foreign currency, sales of medsurg equipment increased 16% for the year. sales of powered surgical instruments and surgical navigation systems increased 21% during the year, 17% excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, due to strong sales growth in heavy-duty powered instruments, micro-powered tools and interventional pain products both domestically and in europe and domestic sales growth of the dekompressor discectomy probe acquired in the fourth quarter of 2002. sales of endoscopic products increased 21% during the year, 19% excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as a result of strong growth in medical video imaging 26 equipment and arthroscopic products in the united states. sales of patient handling and emergency medical equipment increased 12% during the year, 10% excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, due to strong domestic growth in hospital beds and emergency medical equipment. physical therapy services revenues were $223.0 million for 2003, representing an increase of 11% with 8% of the growth resulting from new physical therapy centers and 3% of the increase coming from higher revenues at existing centers. cost of sales represented 36.2% of sales compared with 36.9% in 2002. the lower cost of sales percentage in 2003 was due to the faster sales growth in the higher margin orthopaedic implants business and an increase in the absorption of fixed manufacturing costs caused by increased production at certain of the company's manufacturing plants to meet current demand. research, development and engineering expenses represented 5.0% of sales in 2003 compared with 4.7% in 2002. the higher spending level was the result of final development spending in advance of the company's product launches in 2003 and continued focus on new product development for anticipated future product launches. new product introductions in 2003 included the trident ceramic acetabular system, simplex p with tobramycin bone cement and the core platform of micro-powered surgical instruments in the united states market and the system 5 heavy-duty, battery-powered surgical instruments in europe. selling, general and administrative expenses increased 22% in 2003 and represented 39.1% of sales compared with 38.7% in 2002. the 22% increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was partially due to an increase in sales commission expense as a result of the 20% increase in net sales in 2003. in addition, the company incurred a $14.0 million increase in insurance costs during 2003 resulting from increased premiums charged by third-party insurers and a wholly owned captive insurance company established in 2003 as more fully described in other matters . the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales in 2003 was primarily due to higher distribution costs associated with the increased sales mix of orthopaedic implants, increased amortization of loaner instrument sets, the increase in insurance costs and higher advertising costs associated with the company's previously announced patient education campaign. the increase in intangibles amortization to $45.4 million in 2003 from $28.9 million in 2002 was primarily the result of the increased intangible assets recorded as a result of the july 1, 2002 acquisition of the surgical dynamics inc. spinal implant business (sdi) from tyco international ltd. in addition, the company recorded a $6.5 million charge related to a trademark impairment resulting from a branding initiative adopted by the company in the fourth quarter of 2003. the branding initiative is intended to improve the company's customers' and other stakeholders' overall awareness of stryker's capabilities. the charge is included in intangibles amortization in the consolidated statements of earnings. the company recognized charges of $17.2 million ($11.5 million net of income taxes) related to restructuring and acquisition-related items in the third quarter of 2002. the 2002 restructuring and acquisition-related items included a charge of $21.0 million ($14.1 million net of income taxes) for employment-related costs to close the company's rutherford, new jersey, manufacturing facility, partially offset by a credit of $3.8 million ($2.6 million net of income taxes) to reverse certain howmedica acquisition-related costs to reflect actual final payments required. interest expense declined to $22.6 million in 2003 from $40.3 million in 2002, primarily as a result of lower outstanding debt balances. other income was $3.8 million in 2003, compared with $0.5 million of other expense in 2002 due to foreign currency transaction gains in the current year compared to losses in the prior year and higher interest income. the effective income tax rate was 30.5% in 2003 compared with 31.8% in 2002. the company's effective income tax rate for 2003 was reduced primarily as a result of increased manufacturing in lower tax jurisdictions such as ireland and puerto rico. 27 net earnings increased 31% to $453.5 million from $345.6 million in 2002; basic net earnings per share increased 31% to $1.14 in 2003 from $.87 in 2002; and diluted net earnings per share increased 31% to $1.11 in 2003 from $.85 in 2002. excluding the impact of the restructuring and acquisition-related items for the year ended december 31, 2002, adjusted net earnings increased 27% from $357.1 million in 2002 to $453.5 million in 2003. adjusted basic net earnings per share increased 27% from $.90 in 2002 to $1.14 in 2003. adjusted diluted net earnings per share increased 26% from $.88 in 2002 to $1.11 in 2003. this adjusted financial measure does not replace the presentation of the company's reported financial results stated under gaap. the company has provided this supplemental non-gaap financial measure because it provides meaningful information regarding the company's results on a consistent and comparable basis for the periods presented. management uses this non-gaap financial measure for reviewing the operating results of its business segments and for analyzing potential future business trends in connection with its budget process. in addition, the company believes investors will utilize this information to evaluate period-to-period results and to better understand potential future operating results. the company believes that the economic nature of the restructuring charge and the acquisition-related credit were sufficiently unique that similar items were not recorded in the prior two fiscal years, nor were they reasonably likely to recur within two years. in addition, the company believes that the financial impact of each of these individual items was insignificant by the end of 2004. the company encourages investors and other users of these financial statements to review its consolidated financial statements and other publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely solely on any single financial measure. the reconciliation of this non-gaap financial measure is as follows (in millions): 2003 2002 % change reported net earnings $453.5 $345.6 31% restructuring charge -- 14.1 -- acquisition-related credit -- (2.6) -- adjusted net earnings $453.5 $357.1 27 ==== ==== basic net earnings per share: reported basic net earnings per share $1.14 $.87 31 restructuring charge -- $.04 -- acquisition-related credit -- ($.01) -- adjusted basic net earnings per share $1.14 $.90 27 diluted net earnings per share: reported diluted net earnings per share $1.11 $.85 31 restructuring charge -- $.03 -- acquisition-related credit -- ($.01) -- adjusted diluted net earnings per share $1.11 $.88 26 liquidity and capital resources the company's working capital at december 31, 2004 increased $465.9 million to $1,029.1 million from $563.2 million at december 31, 2003. the increase in working capital resulted from growth in the company's overall business and the use of cash earnings to fully repay amounts outstanding under the company's accounts receivable securitization program and to fund increases in accounts receivable, inventory, prepaid expenses and loaner instrumentation for surgical implants. accounts payable and other accrued liabilities increased in 2004 as a result of the growth in the business, higher obligations for sales commissions, royalties, non-income-based taxes, increased reserves for legal claims and assessments and increases in other accrued liabilities. accounts receivable days sales outstanding, excluding the effect of amounts outstanding ($0 at december 31, 2004 and $150.0 million at december 31, 2003) under the company's $200.0 million accounts receivable securitization facility, was 58 days at both december 31, 2004 and 2003. days sales in inventory increased 2 days to 122 days at december 31, 2004 from 120 days at december 31, 2003. the higher days sales in inventory is partially due to increased inventories to support 2004 and anticipated 2005 product launches. 28 the company generated cash of $593.3 million from operations in 2004 compared with $648.5 million in 2003. the reduction in cash from operations in 2004 compared to the prior year is primarily due to the repayment of all amounts previously outstanding under the accounts receivable securitization facility representing an operating cash usage of $150.0 million in 2004 compared with an operating cash source of $20.0 million in 2003. the generation of cash of $593.3 million in 2004 is the result of cash earnings and increases in accounts payable, current income taxes payable and accrued expenses. these items were partially offset by the aforementioned repayment of amounts outstanding under the accounts receivable securitization facility and increases in loaner instrumentation and accounts receivable from increased sales. in 2004, the company used cash of $144.7 million for acquisitions, $187.8 million for capital expenditures and $28.0 million for the payment of dividends. during 2004, the company repaid the remaining $15.5 million of debt outstanding under the company's unsecured credit facility from the howmedica acquisition. total borrowings declined by $16.1 million after adjusting for the effects of foreign currency translation. in 2004, the company used cash of $187.8 million for capital expenditures, including $36.1 million related to the expansion of the company's manufacturing facility in west lebanon, new hampshire, and $20.7 million related to the construction of the company's new manufacturing facilities in portage, michigan. the company had $349.4 million in cash and cash equivalents at december 31, 2004. the company also had outstanding borrowings totaling $10.0 million at that date. current maturities of long-term debt at december 31, 2004 are $9.3 million. the company believes its cash on hand, as well as anticipated cash flows from operations, will be sufficient to fund future operating capital requirements, future manufacturing facility construction and other capital expenditures and future acquisitions to supplement its current product offerings. should additional funds be required, the company had $826.0 million of additional borrowing capacity available under all of its existing credit facilities, including the company's $750.0 million five-year, nonamortizing, revolving credit agreement that expires in december 2006. in addition, the company had $200.0 million of eligible accounts receivable that could be sold through its accounts receivable securitization facility at december 31, 2004. the company's future contractual obligations for agreements with initial terms greater than one year, including agreements to purchase materials in the normal course of business, are summarized as follows (in millions): payment period 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter long-term debt $9.3 $0.0 $0.7 $0.0 $0.0 $0.0 operating leases 51.0 44.0 37.4 29.0 19.3 49.6 unconditional purchase obligations 230.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 the company's additional borrowing capacity, along with the expected expiration period of the commitments, is summarized as follows (in millions): amount of commitment total expiration per period amount less than in excess of committed 1 year 1 year unsecured revolving credit agreement and other lines of credit $826.0 $99.9 $726.1 critical accounting policies the preparation of the company's consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. management evaluates these estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. estimates are based on historical experience, when available, and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the 29 circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. management believes that of its significant accounting policies (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements ), an understanding of the following critical accounting policies is important in obtaining an overall understanding of the consolidated financial statements. allowance for doubtful accounts the company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses in the collection of accounts receivable. the company makes estimates regarding the future ability of its customers to make required payments based on historical credit experience and expected future trends. if actual customer financial conditions are less favorable than projected by management, additional accounts receivable write-offs may be necessary, which could unfavorably affect future operating results. inventory reserves the company maintains reserves for excess and obsolete inventory resulting from the potential inability to sell its products at prices in excess of current carrying costs. the markets in which the company operates are highly competitive, with new products and surgical procedures introduced on an ongoing basis. such marketplace changes may cause some of the company's products to become obsolete. the company makes estimates regarding the future recoverability of the costs of these products and records a provision for excess and obsolete inventories based on historical experience, expiration of sterilization dates and expected future trends. if actual product life cycles, product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less favorable than projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required, which could unfavorably affect future operating results. income taxes the company operates in multiple tax jurisdictions both inside and outside the united states. accordingly, management must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions. tax audits associated with the allocation of this income and other complex issues may require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in income tax adjustments if changes to the income allocation are required between jurisdictions with different tax rates. because tax adjustments in certain jurisdictions can be significant, the company records accruals representing management's best estimate of the probable resolution of these matters. to the extent additional information becomes available, such accruals are adjusted to reflect the revised estimated probable outcome. other matters the company distributes its products throughout the world. as a result, the company's financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in foreign markets. the company's operating results are primarily exposed to changes in exchange rates among the united states dollar and the japanese yen and european currencies, in particular the euro and the british pound. when the united states dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the dollar value of sales denominated in foreign currencies increases. when the united states dollar strengthens, the opposite situation occurs. the company manufactures its products in the united states, france, germany, ireland, switzerland, canada and puerto rico and incurs the costs to manufacture in the applicable local currencies. this worldwide deployment of factories serves to partially mitigate the impact of currency exchange rate changes on the company's cost of sales. the company enters into forward currency exchange contracts to mitigate the impact of currency fluctuations on transactions denominated in nonfunctional currencies, thereby limiting risk to the company that would otherwise result from changes in exchange rates. these nonfunctional currency exposures principally relate 30 to intercompany receivables and payables arising from intercompany purchases of manufactured products. the periods of the forward currency exchange contracts correspond to the periods of the exposed transactions, with realized gains and losses included in the measurement and recording of transactions denominated in the nonfunctional currencies. at december 31, 2004, the company had outstanding forward currency exchange contracts to purchase $137.7 million and sell $173.1 million of various currencies (principally united states dollars and euros) with maturities ranging principally from 30 to 180 days. the estimated fair value of forward currency exchange contracts represents the measurement of the contracts at month-end spot rates as adjusted by current forward points. a hypothetical 10% change in exchange rates for these currencies would change the december 31, 2004 fair value by approximately $6.1 million. the company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on its outstanding forward currency exchange contracts but does not anticipate nonperformance by any of the counterparties. the company has certain investments in net assets in international locations that are not hedged. these investments are subject to translation gains and losses due to changes in foreign currencies that are deferred and recorded as a separate component of stockholders' equity. for the year ended december 31, 2004, the strengthening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar increased the value of these investments in net assets, and the related deferred gain in stockholders' equity, by $102.2 million to $209.9 million. the company is partially self-insured for product liability claims. in 2003, the company established a wholly owned captive insurance company in the united states to manage its self-insured retention limits. the captive insurance company provides insurance reserves for estimated liabilities for product claims incurred but not reported based on actuarially determined liabilities. the actuarial valuations are based on historical information along with certain assumptions about future events. in december 2003, the company announced that its subsidiary physiotherapy associates, inc., and stryker received a subpoena from the united states attorney's office in boston, massachusetts, in connection with a department of justice investigation of physiotherapy associates' billing and coding practices. physiotherapy associates provides physical, occupational and speech therapy services to patients through 428 outpatient centers in the united states as of december 31, 2004 and represented 6% of stryker's net sales for each of the years ended december 31, 2004 and 2003. revenues derived from billings to u.s. federal health-care programs approximated 14% of physiotherapy associates' revenues during these periods. the company is fully cooperating with the department of justice regarding this matter. on october 22, 2004, the president of the united states signed the american jobs creation act of 2004 (the act). the act creates a temporary incentive for united states corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned in foreign jurisdictions by providing an 85% dividends-received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. the deduction is subject to a number of limitations, and significant uncertainty remains about the way to interpret numerous provisions in the act. due to these factors, the company is not yet in a position to determine whether, and to what extent, it might repatriate foreign earnings that have not yet been remitted to the united states. based on its current analysis, the company may repatriate up to $800.0 million, with a related income tax expense and liability of up to $56.0 million. the company plans to finalize its assessment after congress or the treasury department provides additional clarifying language on key elements of the repatriation provision. in december 2004, the financial accounting standards board (fasb) issued a revision to statement no. 123, share-based payment . this revision supersedes accounting principles board (apb) opinion no. 25, accounting for stock issued to employees , and its related implementation guidance. this revision requires companies to recognize the cost of stock options based on the grant-date fair value pursuant to their employee stock option plans over the period during which the recipient is required to provide services in exchange for the options, typically the vesting period. pursuant to the requirements of the statement, the company plans to adopt the provisions of the standard during the third quarter of 2005 using the modified-retrospective transition method provided in the statement. under this method, the company will restate all prior periods presented on a consistent basis. the company does not believe the adoption of this statement will have a material impact on the trend of net earnings or net earnings per share. 31 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in the results of operations and other matters sections of the company's management's discussion and analysis of financial condition on pages 21 through 27 and 29 through 30, respectively.risk factorsrisk factors risk factors the following information contains specific risks that could potentially impact the company's business, financial condition or operating results. the company may be subject to additional risks that are not currently known to the company or those which the company deems immaterial that may also impact its business operations. the company's inability to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals could have a negative impact on the company's future operating results. the company maintains close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. the company continues to place emphasis on the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand its existing product lines. if the company is unable to maintain these good relationships, its ability to market and sell new and improved products could decrease and future operating results could be unfavorably affected. the company's inability to continue to hire and retain key employees could have a negative impact on the company's future operating results. the talent and drive of the company's employees are key factors in the success of its business. the company's sales, technical and other key personnel play an integral role in the development, marketing and selling of new and existing products. if the company is unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work force it may not be able to meet its strategic business objectives. stricter pricing guidelines for the orthopaedic implants industry could have a negative impact on the company's future operating results. initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of health-care costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where the company does business. the company could experience a negative impact on its operating results due to increased pricing pressure in the united states, japan and certain other markets. governments, hospitals and other third party payers could reduce the amount of approved reimbursements for the company's orthopaedic implant products. reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage or other cost-containment measures could unfavorably affect the company's future operating results. the company's operating results could be negatively impacted by changes in its excess and obsolete inventory reserves. the company maintains reserves for excess and obsolete inventory resulting from the potential inability to sell its products at prices in excess of current carrying costs. the markets in which the company operates are - - 20 - highly competitive and new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an ongoing basis. such marketplace changes may cause some of the company's products to become obsolete. the company makes estimates regarding the future recoverability of the costs of these products and records a provision for excess and obsolete inventories based on historical experience, expiration of sterilization dates and expected future trends. if actual product life cycles, product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less favorable than projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required, which could unfavorably affect future operating results. the company's operating results could be negatively impacted if it is unable to capitalize on research and development spending. the company has spent a significant amount of time and resources on research and development projects in order to develop and validate new and innovative products. the company believes these projects will result in the manufacturing of new products and will create additional future sales. however, factors including regulatory delays, safety concerns, or patent disputes could slow down the introduction or marketing of new products. additionally, unanticipated issues may arise in connection with current and future clinical studies, including those for additional op-1 applications and the flexicore and cervicore spinal implant products, that could delay or terminate a product's development prior to regulatory approval. the company may experience an unfavorable impact on its operating results if it is unable to capitalize on those efforts by attaining the proper fda approval or to successfully market these and other new products, including the plasmasol sterilization products and the sightline flexible endoscope products. the company's operating results could be negatively impacted by future product liability claims, unfavorable court decisions or legal settlements. the company is a defendant in various proceedings, legal actions and claims arising in the normal course of business, including product liability and other matters. such matters are subject to many uncertainties, and outcomes are not predictable with assurance. to partially mitigate losses arising from unfavorable outcomes in such matters, the company purchases third-party insurance coverage subject to certain deductibles and loss limitations. while the company believes its current insurance coverage is adequate to mitigate losses arising from such matters, its future operating results may be unfavorably impacted by any settlement payments or losses beyond the amounts of insurance carried. likewise, the company may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether it is found to be liable. in addition, such product liability settlements may negatively impact the company's ability to obtain cost-effective third-party insurance coverage in future periods. in december 2003, the company announced that it and its subsidiary physiotherapy associates, inc., received a subpoena from the united states attorney's office in boston, massachusetts, in connection with a department of justice investigation of physiotherapy associates' billing and coding practices. in march 2005, the company announced that it received a subpoena from the united states department of justice requesting documents for the period january 2002 through the present relating to &quot;any and all consulting contracts, professional service agreements, or remuneration agreements between stryker corporation and any orthopedic surgeon, orthopedic surgeon in training, or medical school graduate using or considering the surgical use of hip or knee joint replacement/reconstruction products manufactured or sold by stryker corporation.&quot; in june 2006, the company announced that it received a subpoena from the united states department of justice, antitrust division, requesting documents for the period january 2001 through the present regarding possible violations of federal criminal law, including possible violation of the antitrust laws, relating to the manufacture and sale of orthopaedic implant devices. the company is fully cooperating with the department of justice regarding these matters. as a result of these investigations, the company's future operating results could be negatively impacted by settlements of these matters. the company's operating results could be negatively impacted by economic, political or other developments in countries in which the company does business. future operating results could be negatively impacted by unstable economic, political and social conditions including but not limited to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, political instability, or - - 21 - changes in the interpretation of or creation of new laws and regulations in each of the countries where the company conducts business, including the united states. additionally, the company operates in multiple tax jurisdictions and must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. tax audits associated with the allocation of income and other complex issues may result in significant tax adjustments that could negatively impact the company's future operating results.risk factors risk factors the following information contains specific risks that could potentially impact the company's business, financial condition or operating results. the company may be subject to additional risks that are not currently known to the company or those which the company deems immaterial that may also impact its business operations. the company's inability to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals could have a negative impact on the company's future operating results. the company maintains close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. the company continues to place emphasis on the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand its existing product lines. if the company is unable to maintain these good relationships, its ability to market and sell new and improved products could decrease, and future operating results could be unfavorably affected. the company's inability to continue to hire and retain key employees could have a negative impact on the company's future operating results. the talent and drive of the company's employees are key factors in the success of its business. the company's sales, technical and other key personnel play an integral role in the development, marketing and selling of new and existing products. if the company is unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work force, it may not be able to meet its strategic business objectives. stricter pricing guidelines for the orthopaedic implants industry could have a negative impact on the company's future operating results. initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where the company does business. the company could experience a negative impact on its operating results due to increased pricing pressure in the united states, japan and certain other markets. governments, hospitals and other third party payers could reduce the amount of approved reimbursements for the company's orthopaedic implant products. reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage, or other cost-containment measures could unfavorably affect the company's future operating results. the company's operating results could be negatively impacted by changes in its excess and obsolete inventory reserves. the company maintains reserves for excess and obsolete inventory resulting from the potential inability to sell its products at prices in excess of current carrying costs. the markets in which the company operates are highly competitive, and new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an ongoing basis. such marketplace changes may cause some of the company's products to become obsolete. the company makes estimates regarding the future recoverability of the costs of these products and records a provision for excess and obsolete inventories based on historical experience, expiration of sterilization dates and expected future trends. if actual product life cycles, product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less favorable than projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required, which could unfavorably affect future operating results. the company's operating results could be negatively impacted if it is unable to capitalize on research and development spending. the company has spent a significant amount of time and resources on research and development projects in order to develop and validate new and innovative products. the company believes these projects will result in the manufacturing of new products and will create additional future sales. however, factors including regulatory - - 21 - delays, safety concerns or patent disputes could delay the introduction or marketing of new products. additionally, unanticipated issues may arise in connection with current and future clinical studies, including those for additional op-1 applications and the flexicore and cervicore spinal implant products, that could delay or terminate a product's development prior to regulatory approval. the company may experience an unfavorable impact on its operating results if it is unable to capitalize on those efforts by attaining the proper fda approval or to successfully market these and other new products, including the sightline flexible endoscope products and the plasmasol sterilization products. the company's operating results could be negatively impacted by future product liability claims, unfavorable court decisions, regulatory compliance or legal settlements. the company is a defendant in various proceedings, legal actions and claims arising in the normal course of business, including product liability and other matters. such matters are subject to many uncertainties, and outcomes are not predictable with assurance. to partially mitigate losses arising from unfavorable outcomes in such matters, the company purchases third-party insurance coverage subject to certain deductibles and loss limitations. while the company believes its current insurance coverage is adequate to mitigate losses arising from such matters, its future operating results may be unfavorably impacted by any settlement payments or losses beyond the amounts of insurance carried. likewise, the company may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether it is found to be liable. in addition, such product liability settlements may negatively impact the company's ability to obtain cost-effective third-party insurance coverage in future periods. in 2007 the company disclosed that the u.s. securities and exchange commission has made an informal inquiry of the company regarding possible violations of the foreign corrupt practices act in connection with the sale of medical devices in certain foreign countries. subsequently, in 2008, the company received a subpoena from the u.s. department of justice, criminal division, requesting certain documents for the period january 1, 2000 through the present in connection with the u.s. securities and exchange commission inquiry. in 2006 the company announced that it received a subpoena from the u.s. department of justice, antitrust division, requesting documents for the period january 2001 through the present regarding possible violations of federal criminal law, including possible violation of the antitrust laws, relating to the manufacture and sale of orthopaedic implant devices. stryker is fully cooperating with the u.s. department of justice and the u.s. securities and exchange commission regarding these matters. in 2007 the company reached a resolution with the u.s. attorney's office for the district of new jersey in connection with a previously announced investigation relating to &quot;any and all consulting contracts, professional service agreements, or remuneration agreements between stryker corporation and any orthopedic surgeon, orthopedic surgeon in training, or medical school graduate using or considering the surgical use of hip or knee joint replacement/reconstruction products manufactured or sold by stryker corporation.&quot; the resolution is in the form of a non-prosecution agreement for an 18-month period. during the term of the agreement, the company's orthopaedics subsidiary is subject to oversight by a federal monitor, as appointed by the u.s. attorney, regarding compliance with certain standards and procedures in connection with the retention and payment of orthopaedic surgeon consultants related to reconstructive products and the provision of certain benefits to such surgeons. in 2007 the company received two warning letters from the fda regarding compliance with certain quality system specifications at its reconstructive implant manufacturing facilities: one letter for its facility in cork, ireland and another for its facility in mahwah, new jersey. the company takes these matters very seriously and has been fully cooperating with the fda to address their observations. as a result of these investigations, the company's future operating results could be negatively impacted by settlements of these matters. the company's operating results could be negatively impacted by economic, political or other developments in countries in which the company does business. future operating results could be negatively impacted by unstable economic, political and social conditions, including but not limited to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, political instability, or - 22 - changes in the interpretation or creation of laws and regulations in each of the countries where the company conducts business, including the united states. additionally, the company operates in multiple income tax jurisdictions and must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. income tax audits associated with the allocation of income and other complex issues may result in significant income tax adjustments that could negatively impact the company's future operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk item 8 . financial statements and supplementary data report of independent registered public accounting firm on financial statements consolidated balance sheets consolidated statements of earnings consolidated statements of shareholders' equity consolidated statements of cash flows notes to consolidated financial statements summary of quarterly data (unaudited) item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure item 9a. controls and procedures item 9b. other information part iii item 10 . directors, executive officers and corporate governance item 11. executive compensation item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters item 13. certain relationships and related transactions , and director independence item 14. principal accounting fees and services part iv item 15. exhibits, financial statement schedules - 4 - part i item 1. business general stryker corporation (the company or stryker) is one of the world's leading medical technology companies with the most broadly based range of products in orthopaedics and a significant presence in other medical specialties. stryker works with respected medical professionals to help people lead more active and more satisfying lives. the company's products include implants used in joint replacement, trauma, spinal and craniomaxillofacial surgeries; biologics; surgical, neurologic, ear, nose &amp; throat and interventional pain equipment; endoscopic, surgical navigation, communications and digital imaging systems; as well as patient handling and emergency medical equipment. stryker was incorporated in michigan in 1946 as the successor company to a business founded in 1941 by dr. homer h. stryker, a leading orthopaedic surgeon and the inventor of several orthopaedic products. stryker's filings with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, including its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, are accessible free of charge at www.stryker.com within the &quot;investors-sec filings &amp; ownership reports&quot; link. in 2007 the company completed the sale of its outpatient physical therapy business, physiotherapy associates, to water street healthcare partners, for $150 million in cash less certain indebtedness. physiotherapy associates' operating results are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. in 2006 the company acquired all of the outstanding stock of sightline technologies ltd. (sightline), a private, development-stage company. the acquisition of sightline, a developer of flexible endoscopes, is expected to enhance the company's presence in the gastrointestinal and other markets within its medsurg equipment segment. in 2005 the company completed the repatriation of $722 million of foreign earnings under the provisions of the american jobs creation act (the act). the act provided a temporary incentive for united states companies to repatriate accumulated income earned in foreign jurisdictions at a reduced income tax cost. the repatriated funds were invested pursuant to an approved domestic reinvestment plan that conformed to the act. in 2005 the company acquired, by merger, all of the outstanding stock of plasmasol corp. (plasmasol). plasmasol has developed a technology that should allow stryker to provide sterilization equipment for use with certain of its medsurg equipment products. in 2005 the company acquired etrauma.com corp. (etrauma). the acquisition expanded the company's endoscopic and digital imaging equipment product offerings within its medsurg equipment segment by adding etrauma's proprietary picture archival and communications systems (pacs) image management and viewing software. - 5 - product sales the company segregates its operations into two reportable business segments: orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment. the orthopaedic implants segment sells orthopaedic reconstructive (hip, knee and shoulder), trauma, spinal and craniomaxillofacial implant systems; bone cement; and the bone growth factor op-1. the medsurg equipment segment sells surgical equipment; surgical navigation systems; endoscopic, communications and digital imaging systems; as well as patient handling and emergency medical equipment. the other category includes corporate administration, interest expense and interest and marketable securities income. the following amounts (in millions) and percentages represent domestic/international and business segment net sales during each of the three years ended december 31: 2007 2006 2005 $ % $ % $ % domestic/international sales: domestic $3,850.3 64% $3,298.4 64% $2,903.0 63% international 2,150.2 36 1,848.8 36 1,705.9 37 total net sales $6,000.5 100% $5,147.2 100% $4,608.9 100% business segment sales: orthopaedic implants $3,570.7 60% $3,110.1 60% $2,849.5 62% medsurg equipment 2,429.8 40 2,037.1 40 1,759.4 38 total net sales $6,000.5 100% $5,147.2 100% $4,608.9 100% additional financial information regarding the company's operating segments and geographic areas can be found under the captions &quot; results of operations &quot; on pages 29 through 37 and &quot; note 12 - segment and geographic data &quot; on pages 64 through 66 of this report. approximately 70% of the company's sales in 2007, 71% in 2006 and 72% in 2005 consisted of products with short lives, such as reconstructive, trauma, spinal and craniomaxillofacial implant systems (while implants have a long useful life to the patient, they have a one-time use to the hospital); disposables and expendable tools; and parts and service revenues, including service and repair charges. the balance of sales in each of the years came from products that could be considered capital equipment, having useful lives in excess of one year. the company's backlog of firm orders is not considered material to an understanding of its business. orthopaedic implants orthopaedic implants are designed and manufactured by stryker orthopaedics, stryker osteosynthesis, stryker spine and stryker biotech and consist of such products as implants used in joint replacement, trauma, craniomaxillofacial and spinal surgeries; bone cement; and the bone growth factor op-1. artificial joints are made of cobalt chromium, titanium alloys, ceramics or ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene and are implanted in patients whose natural joints have been damaged by arthritis, osteoporosis, other diseases or injury. the company's op-1 bone growth factor, which induces the formation of new bone when implanted into bone, is composed of recombinant human op-1 and a bioresorbable collagen matrix. minimally invasive surgery many of stryker's technologically advanced reconstructive implants are suited to minimally invasive surgery (mis) procedures that are intended to reduce soft-tissue damage and pain while hastening return to function. the company supports surgeons with technology, procedural development and specialized instrumentation as they develop new mis techniques. - 6 - in order to facilitate emerging procedural approaches, the company has also developed instrumentation for mis total joint procedures. the company's surgical navigation systems are frequently used in mis procedures to improve the accuracy of measurements and to position the implant. stryker osteosynthesis has a market leadership position in the intramedullary (im) hip screw market due to the minimally invasive nature of the gamma nail, which can be implanted through a smaller incision than other competing products. in addition, surgeons are testing the use of the company's surgical navigation systems for this procedure as well as in surgery for pelvic fractures. the company's triathlon total knee minimally invasive instrumentation is designed to complement the unique, minimally invasive total knee procedure pioneered by a leading orthopaedic surgeon. the eius unicondylar knee and the avon patellofemoral joint are resurfacing, bone-conserving designs that are used to treat disease isolated to one compartment of the knee. these pre-total knee treatment options can also be implanted using minimally invasive techniques. orthobiologics stryker strives to be an innovator and leader in the fast-growing field of orthobiologics with products that combine both natural and synthetic technologies. the company's innovative product portfolio includes such products as op-1, a proprietary, recombinant version of a signaling protein with multiple tissue regeneration properties; tissuemend, a single-layer acellular collagen matrix that is easy to handle and delivers both unrivaled strength and documented remodeling capability; hydroset, the next generation in bone substitute technology, which is injectible, sculptable and fast setting; bonesource bvf, an effective osteoconductive bone substitute with excellent biocompatibility and mechanical stability; and bonesave, a granules-based alternative to conventional bone grafting. hip implant systems through stryker orthopaedics, the company offers a variety of hip implant systems for the global reconstructive market. the abg hip system, partnership hip system, secur-fit hip system, omnifit hip system, accolade hip system and restoration hip system are all comprehensive systems of hip implants and associated instrumentation designed to provide physicians and patients with reliable results and to reduce operating time for primary and revision procedures. the exeter total hip system is based on a collarless, highly polished, double-tapered femoral design that reduces shear stresses and increases compression at the cement/bone interface. during 2004, the company began transitioning to its new restoration modular revision hip system in the united states, europe, australia and canada. this system offers surgeons performing revision surgeries flexibility in treating complex hip stem revisions and restoring patient biomechanics. the restoration modular revision hip system also takes advantage of stryker's long clinical history with hydroxylapatite (ha), a naturally occurring calcium phosphate material that demonstrates a high level of biocompatibility due to its resemblance to bone, by incorporating purefix ha coating on many components. the restoration modular revision hip system complements the company's existing restoration ha and restoration plasma spray (ps) monolithic revision systems. in 2007 the company began selling the cormet hip resurfacing system in the united states pursuant to an exclusive 10-year marketing and distribution agreement with corin group plc. in 2006 the company began the initial launch of another hip resurfacing product in certain international markets. these products represent a less invasive option for younger patients with the potential for enhanced stability and range of motion. in hip resurfacing procedures, very little bone is removed from the femoral head, the femoral neck is preserved and the femoral canal is spared. following the clinical success of its crossfire technology, a highly crosslinked polyethylene designed to reduce wear, stryker launched x3 polyethylene in 2005. x3 polyethylene is the company's next-generation highly crosslinked polyethylene, which features a higher level of strength and wear reduction in both hip and knee replacements. - 7 - in 2006 the company received clearance from the fda for its advanced bearing system, low friction ion treatment (lfit) anatomic femoral heads with x3 polyethylene liners. this represents a significant advancement in hip-bearing technology through the combination of stryker's lfit technology and x3 advanced bearing technology. the femoral heads are anatomically sized for more natural hip performance. in 2007 the company further expanded its anatomic femoral head offerings with the introduction of the delta ceramic anatomic head for even greater options to reduce wear and potentially increase implant longevity. stryker was the first company to receive clearance from the fda to commercially release for sale in the united states a hip implant with ha surface treatment. the company's global clinical experience with ha-coated hip stems now extends over 20 years, and reported clinical performance continues to equal or exceed that of comparable hip stems reported in the scientific literature. the company's centpillar hip system provide lines of products that offer an increased range of motion and a minimally invasive technique preferred by japanese surgeons for their patients. in 2007 the company introduced centpillar tmzf to the japanese market. this is the first product introduced in japan that utilizes stryker's patented tmzf material along with the company's purefix ha. the tmzf material allows for implant stiffness more closely matched to a patient's own bone to enhance fixation. the company received premarket approval (pma) from the fda in 2003 for its ceramic-on-ceramic hip replacement system, the trident ceramic acetabular insert, for patients in the united states. stryker orthopaedics has successfully launched the trident ceramic insert in the united states, europe, australia and canada. the trident insert is wear resistant, and it is protected and strengthened by a patented titanium sleeve. in 2006 the company launched the trident tritanium acetabular shell which contains a highly porous surface that closely resembles the structure of trabecular bone. this shell is designed for revision surgery and contains multiple screw holes to achieve bone fixation and initial stability. the company entered 2008 with more than 30 years of clinical history with the exeter hip system, more than 20 years of clinical history with the omnifit cemented stem and more than 20 years of clinical history with the omnifit ha stem. long-term clinical results are an important factor in the company's ability to market hip implants. knee implant systems the company offers five major knee implant systems under the stryker brand name: the duracon, eius, global modular replacement system (gmrs), scorpio and triathlon systems. during 2007 the triathlon system surpassed 200,000 implantations worldwide and was complemented with the introduction of the triathlon ts system. the duraconts and scorpiots revision systems and modular rotating hinge complete the product line offerings with implants for complex revision procedures. the triathlon knee system represents the company's evolutionary design that has been developed to more closely reproduce natural knee motion and is designed to provide mobility with stability through more than 150 degrees of flexion. the state-of-the-art triathlon knee instrumentation is designed to improve operating room efficiency through a streamlined, integrated system providing options and flexibility to meet surgeons' varying preferences and multiple surgical techniques. in 2007 stryker introduced the condylar stabilizing (cs) ultra-congruent insert for the triathlon knee system. the triathlon cs insert is a high-performance insert designed to provide patients with more natural motion and the potential for greater implant longevity. in 2006 the company introduced x3 advanced bearing technology as well as anterior referencing instruments for use with the triathlon knee system. in 2005 the company launched a posteriorly stabilized (ps) version of the triathlon knee following the launch of the cruciate-retaining (cr) version in 2004. in 2005 the company continued its launch of the triathlon knee system on a worldwide basis throughout the united states and europe and into canada and the pacific region. - 8 - the gmrs is a global product that offers a comprehensive solution for severe bone loss in oncology, trauma and revision surgery patients. gmrs has tibial and femoral components, including a total femur, and a modular rotating hinge knee. the system employs both titanium and cobalt chrome alloys for strength and lightness of weight, together with the superior flexibility of the hinge. the mrs, the predecessor to the gmrs, was the first modular segmental replacement system when it was introduced in 1988. these system components have maintained a leadership position in this market segment since their introduction. the scorpio knee implant design is based on the epicondylar axis of the knee. this patented approach addresses significant clinical issues, such as improved patient rehabilitation and midflexion stability, through an increase in the patella-femoral moment arm and a single anterior-posterior radius. in 2006, the scorpio ha cr and scorpio ha ps versions were launched. the scorpio ha cr product is designed to minimize polyethylene wear and the scorpio ha ps product features a minimally invasive open box design and maximized stability. the scorpio plus mobile bearing tibial component was launched in markets outside the united states in 2001, and a clinical trial is in progress in the united states. this addition to the scorpio line provides a competitive entry into the growing, mobile-bearing market segment. the scorpio nrg, originally launched in japan, was introduced in europe and the pacific region in 2005 and in the united states in 2006. scorpio nrg provides additional kinematic benefits over scorpioflex, including increased rotational allowance, an articulating design for deeper flexion and greater extension allowance without impingement. in 2007 the scorpio nrg with x3 advanced bearing technology was launched. this new version of the scorpio nrg is designed to lower wear rates compared with standard inserts. the scorpioflex, which is available for both posterior cruciate-retaining and cruciate-substituting indications, is specifically designed for patients who have the ability and motivation to return to high-flexion activities such as gardening and golfing. the scorpio system is supported by the passport instrumentation system, which was designed to provide intraoperative flexibility and precision as well as a simple, cost-effective approach to total knee replacement surgery. the eius unicondylar knee replacement system is designed for the minimally invasive knee surgery market segment. this system marries bone-sparing femoral and tibial implants with sophisticated instrumentation and a surgical technique aimed at reducing rehabilitation time for patients. other joint replacement products the company markets other joint replacement products, principally shoulder and elbow implants and related instruments, under the stryker brand name. the solar total shoulder system provides a unique design for the humeral head that allows surgeons to adjust tension of the supporting tissues while maximizing range of motion. the shoulder instruments offer surgeons increased visibility and access to this tightly confined joint space. the solar bipolar shoulder provides surgeons with additional options for addressing rotator cuff arthropathy arthritis of the shoulder and incorporates the patented bipolar locking mechanism that is also used in the company's hip implants. the solar shoulder product line gives surgeons increased intraoperative flexibility to restore the patient's shoulder kinematics. in 2007 the company introduced the reunion shoulder fracture system of implants and instrumentation. the reunion system utilizes an innovative trial system to simplify the reconstruction of the shoulder during fracture surgery. the solar total elbow complements products offered for upper extremity procedures. the semiconstrained design and modular components address varying types of patient anatomy. bone cement simplex bone cement, a material used to secure cemented implants to bone, was first approved for orthopaedic use in the united states in 1971 and is the most widely used bone cement in the world. the company manufactures and provides several variations of simplex bone cement to meet specific patient needs. simplex has nearly 50 years of clinical history, the longest of any bone cement, with more than 400 published clinical papers. - 9 - trauma implant systems through stryker osteosynthesis, the company develops, manufactures and markets its trauma extremities and deformities systems. these systems, including nailing, plating, hip fracture, external fixation systems and bone substitutes, are used primarily in deformity corrections and in the fixation of fractures resulting from sudden injury. these products consist of internal fixation devices marketed under such names as gamma, omega, asnis, axsos, variax, hydroset, bixcut t2 and s2, along with external fixation devices marketed under the apex, hoffmann ii, tenxor and monotube triax names. the company's internal fixation product portfolio includes a full array of im nails, hip fracture devices and plates and screws in both titanium and stainless steel. these products complement the total hip and knee replacement offerings mentioned above by offering a restorative option in addition to total joint replacement. to address the hip trauma and fracture segment, the company markets several products, including the im nail portfolio, led by the t2 nailing system; the gamma nail, a unique im nail for trochanteric fractures; the omega hip screw system; the asnis cannulated screw system; and the hansson pin system, providing a complete offering of surgical solutions for the hip trauma patient. these hip fracture systems offer orthopaedic surgeons multiple options depending on their preferences and patient needs. the t2 nailing system includes femoral and tibial components with a common instrument platform for accuracy and ease of use. the company has also recently introduced the t2 ankle arthrodesis nail to provide the option for tibiotalocalcaneal fusion with a retrograde im nail to repair limited soft tissue damage in the ankle area, early weight bearing and compression of the subtalar and tibiotalar joints. building on the success of the t2 titanium nail system, the company introduced the stainless steel s2 tibial and femoral nails. the gamma3 is based on 20 years of gamma nail experience and is the third generation of im short and long gamma fixation nails. the gamma3 system is designed to facilitate minimally invasive surgery (mis) and reduce surgery time through the use of newly designed implants and instrumentation. the asnis cannulated screw system can help simplify the operative procedure through features that allow surgeons to place, insert and remove locking screws easily. this system was recently expanded to include smaller diameters of 2.0mm and 3.0mm for foot surgery to complement the variax foot and ankle plating system. in 2007 the company introduced the omega 3 compression hip screw system, a unique and innovative product that reflects stryker's extensive experience in the treatment of hip fractures of the proximal femur. the omega 3 system offers the surgeon a wide choice of low-profile hip plates plus the option to lock screws with diverging fixation. the omega 3 allows the surgeon to decide preoperatively or even intraoperatively to add axial stable screws to lock the hip plate to the femoral shaft. axial stability with 5.0mm locking inserts and corresponding locking screws allows for increased stability. this may be advantageous for early mobilization and when the bone density or bone quality is limited. to address the knee trauma segment, stryker offers the hoffman ii modular fixation system, the t2 scn nailing system and the sps and axsos plating solutions. the hoffman ii knee-bridging frame is used to stabilize injuries to the knee until definitive treatment with a plate or nail occurs or reconstruction takes place. in addition, stryker offers the t2 scn nail, which can be used for definitive treatment of supracondylar femur fractures just above the knee joint. this nail can also be used for periprosthetic fracture fixation for traumatic fractures in patients who have already had a joint replacement. stryker has several product lines for upper extremity trauma. the universal distal radius system complements the stainless steel numelock ii with a titanium option in distal radius plates and screws. the universal distal radius system offers a wide array of precontoured, variable-sized plates for volar, distal and column approaches and both open reduction and internal fixation techniques. in 2006 the company launched, on a limited basis, the second-generation variax universal distal radius system, which is thinner than the original and features polyaxial locking. the axsos locking plate system, also introduced in 2006, is designed to treat metaphyseal and diaphyseal fractures with low-profile anatomically contoured plates, a unique screw design and a simple instrument platform. - 10 - the company's external fixation products also include the hoffmann ii compact and microfix, the monotube triax monolateral system, the tenxor circular fixation system for complex fractures and a complete range of pins and wires for attaching the devices to fractured bones. the hoffmann ii compact for upper extremity fractures includes a patented snap-fit mechanism that makes it easy for surgeons to construct the fixation device to fit the patient and align the fractured bones. it also has a full selection of lightweight radiolucent connection bars that allow for quick intraoperative fracture repair. the monotube triax system is available in three sizes and includes an adjustable feature that enables surgeons not only to stabilize fractures but also to lengthen the bone in cases where bone has been removed due to damage. the tenxor hybrid frame enables surgeons to treat complex fractures around the joints with both pins and long transfixing wires. this attribute is especially useful for patients with multipart fractures near the ankle and knee. the system features advanced composite materials and is compatible with the hoffman ii snap-fit connection devices. spinal implant systems through stryker spine, the company develops, manufactures and markets spinal implant products including cervical, thoracolumbar and interbody systems used in spine injury, deformity and degenerative therapies. spinal implant products include plates, rods, screws, connectors, spacers and cages, along with proprietary implant instrumentation. in 2007 the company introduced the mantis minimally invasive access system for posterior instrumented spinal fusion and the reflex zero profile anterior cervical plating system. in 2006 the company introduced the vlift vertebral body replacement system consisting of a preassembled, cylindrically shaped titanium cage with a distractible or retractable center. the hollow core of the cage allows for packing bone graft. also in 2006, stryker launched the avs as and al spacers which are used as vertebral body support devices in anterior procedures. other product lines include the xia system, a top-loading pedicle screw system that addresses both simple and complex spinal conditions, as well as the oasys fixation system that serves the posterior cervical fusion market. stryker also offers the reflex hybrid anterior cervical plate and the avs pl and tl vertebral spacer systems. the reflex hybrid features the ability to utilize both fixed and variable-angle screws. craniomaxillofacial implant systems through stryker osteosynthesis, the company develops, manufactures and markets plating systems and related implants and products for craniomaxillofacial surgery. in 2006 stryker introduced hydroset, a self-setting calcium phosphate bone substitute that is indicated to fill certain bone voids or gaps of the skeletal system. also in 2006, the company launched duramatrix, a second-generation dura substitute technology, which is a conformable and resorbable membrane matrix engineered from highly purified type i collagen. in 2005 the company extended its universal fixation system for craniomaxillofacial surgery with the addition of a facial trauma module. op-1 implant/bmp-7 more than two decades ago, stryker saw the potential that orthobiologic products held for orthopaedics in an aging world and began a long-term investment in op-1, initially focused on the bone growth properties of op-1. op-1 was originally discovered by creative biomolecules, inc. (a company that subsequently merged into curis, inc.), with which stryker funded a long-term development collaboration with a vision to develop the first molecules to stimulate tissue regeneration. stryker's first therapeutic product, op-1 implant, is composed of recombinant human op-1 and a bioresorbable collagen matrix. op-1 is a natural protein that the human body makes to induce bone formation. in preclinical studies, op-1 induced the formation of new bone when implanted into bony defect sites. stryker was the first company to enter clinical studies with a bone morphogenic protein, bmp-7 (or op-1). studies have been performed in two challenging clinical indications: first, in nonunion fractures of long bones, and second, in posterolateral spine fusions. - 11 - based on clinical data from a large, controlled human study, stryker received approval for a humanitarian device exemption (hde) from the fda in 2001 for the use of op-1 implant as an alternative to autograft in recalcitrant long-bone nonunions where use of autograft is not feasible and alternative treatments have failed. an hde, as defined by the fda, is for a product intended to benefit patients by treating or diagnosing a disease or condition that affects fewer than 4,000 individuals per year in the united states. as of december 31, 2007, stryker had more than 600 hospital institutional review board (irb) approvals for op-1 implant in patients in the united states under this hde. the company has received market approvals from regulators in europe and in australia during 2001 as well as in canada during 2002 for the indication of nonunion fractures of the tibia that failed prior autograft treatment or when autograft treatment is not feasible; for the treatment of long-bone nonunions secondary to trauma for the purpose of initiating new bone formation; or for the clinical indication of long-bone nonunions, respectively. in the united states, stryker received a further hde in 2004 for revision posterolateral spine fusion following the completion of a pilot clinical study that indicated possible benefit of a new formulation of op-1 known as op-1 putty. as of december 31, 2007, stryker had approximately 700 hospital irb approvals for op-1 putty in the united states under this hde. stryker is committed to the further development of op-1 as an alternative to iliac crest bone graft for patients requiring spinal fusion using a variety of surgical techniques. spinal fusion is used to stabilize the spine and improve patient outcomes postoperatively. the company conducted a multicenter pivotal trial in the united states and canada using op-1 putty in posterolateral lumbar spine fusion in the setting of degenerative spondylolisthesis. in 2003 the company completed enrollment in this trial, and the final 2-year follow-up evaluation of the 297 enrolled patients was completed at the end of 2005. the results were analyzed and submitted to the fda in 2006 as part of a pma application for the use of op-1 putty in posterolateral lumbar spine fusion surgeries. the pma is currently under review by the fda. the company continues to believe in the eventual approval of op-1 for spinal fusion in the united states, though nearer-term timing cannot be predicted. stryker also filed a marketing authorization application (maa) with the european medicines evaluation agency (emea) for the posterolateral lumbar spine fusion indication in 2006. this application is currently under consideration. in 2006 stryker filed an investigational device exemption (ide) application with the fda to start a clinical study in transforaminal lumbar interbody fusions using op-1 putty. the ide was approved and patient recruitment was nearly completed in 2007. the company has also begun planning a pivotal study for open tibial fractures. stryker is also interested in exploring the cartilage regeneration properties of op-1 and has successfully completed preclinical studies showing that op-1 can stimulate new cartilage formation and increase disc height in animal models of degenerative disc disease. in 2005 stryker filed its first investigational new drug (ind) application with the fda to treat degenerative disc disease with a new injectable form of op-1 in a dose-ranging study in humans. during 2007 and 2006, stryker recruited patients into the dose-ranging clinical safety study for the first time use of bmp-7 to regenerate cartilage tissue. in 2006 stryker filed an ind application with the fda to treat osteoarthritis in the knee with the injectable form of op-1. following fda concurrence in 2007, the company proceeded with patient enrollment in the clinical study. - 12 - medsurg equipment medsurg equipment products include surgical equipment; surgical navigation systems; endoscopic, communications and digital imaging systems; and patient handling and emergency medical equipment. these products are designed and manufactured by stryker instruments, stryker endoscopy and stryker medical. the stryker instruments and stryker endoscopy product portfolios include micro powered tools and instruments that are used in orthopaedics, functional endoscopic sinus surgery, neurosurgery, spinal surgery and plastic surgery. the total performance system (tps) is a universal surgical system that can be utilized in several medical specialties. the tps u2 drill and tps burs are designed for use by spine surgeons and neurosurgeons, while the tps microdriver and tps sagittal saw are designed for use by sports physicians and plastic surgeons. the elite attachment line with a proprietary extendable bur system and saber drill for ent surgery further extend the tps system into spine, neurosurgery and ent applications. the tps system also powers stryker endoscopy shaver systems. surgical equipment through stryker instruments, the company offers a broad line of surgical, neurologic, ent and interventional spine equipment that is used in surgical specialties for drilling, burring, rasping or cutting bone in small-bone orthopaedics, neurosurgical, spine and ent procedures; wiring or pinning bone fractures; and preparing hip or knee surfaces for the placement of artificial implants. stryker instruments also manufactures an array of different attachments and cutting accessories for use by orthopaedic, neurologic and small-bone specialists. in 2007 stryker introduced the core sumex drill, designed for use in ent procedures, to further leverage the company's consolidated operating room equipment (core) platform. the sumex drill utilizes electronic torque feedback to increase rpm's when the drill is engaged in more demanding tasks. in addition, the sumex drill incorporates a tapered front end to allow for better surgeon line of sight. in 2006 the company introduced the stryker precision oscillating tip saw. in contrast to standard surgical saws with oscillating blades, this innovative saw has a stationary blade shaft with an oscillating tip. this feature gives surgeons the opportunity for greater accuracy while simplifying cuts and reducing the potential for soft tissue damage. this saw represents an advance in procedural simplification, offering customers the potential for time and cost savings by reducing the number of steps in the surgical process. in 2006 the system 6 heavy duty, large-bone power system was released. this next-generation system, which includes several new attachments, is more powerful and has a longer battery life than its predecessor. the system 6 rotary handpieces provide more options to surgeons by allowing both high-speed drilling and high-torque reaming in one handpiece. system 6 heavy duty saws provide increased torque for a faster and more efficient cut. in 2006 the company launched the silverglide non-stick bipolar forceps. these forceps rapidly diffuse heat, which eliminates localized sticking of tissue to the instrument and thus reduces bleeding in neurosurgery procedures. the introduction of the maestro drill in 2005 expanded stryker's line of micro powered instruments for spine, neurology and ent applications. employing the pneumatic technology that is the preference of many surgeons in these specialties, the maestro drill leverages the company's tps and core platforms by using the same cutting attachments. the core platform console is a technological advancement on the precision and versatility offered by the tps console platform and offers integrated irrigation, multihandpiece functionality and a standardized user interface. stryker instruments also produces products that are utilized in conjunction with joint replacement surgery. these products include the revolution cement mixing system, designed to provide one solution for mixing all surgical cements, in addition to offering mixing efficacy, safety and ease of use; the interpulse, a disposable, self- - - 13 - contained pulsed lavage system used by physicians to cleanse the surgical site during total joint arthroplasty; and the constavac cbc ii blood conservation system, a postoperative wound drainage and blood reinfusion device that enables joint replacement patients to receive their own blood rather than donor blood. in 2005 the company advanced its postsurgical technology with the introduction of the block aid painpump system. this one product provides site-specific pain management and also features a reprogrammable pump that is ideal for continuous nerve blocks. the company also markets the painpump2, a disposable system that offers electronically controlled flow rates of pain medication directly to the surgical site to help manage a patient's postoperative discomfort. this innovative design allows the physician to program the pump and provides a patient-controlled analgesia (pca) option, previously unavailable to the market in a disposable pump. to promote safety for patients and medical staff, stryker works closely with hospitals and other healthcare organizations to develop a broad product portfolio. in 2005 stryker introduced its next-generation steri-shield t5 personal protection system, which advances its market-leading helmet, hood and gown to help protect operating room personnel from infection, cross-contamination and harmful microorganisms. this system employs advanced user-cooling features and provides the option for integrated communication and lighting systems. the neptune waste management system represents stryker's leading product for waste management in the operating room. the self-contained device, first introduced in 2000 and consistently improved, collects and disposes of fluid and smoke waste from surgical procedures, minimizing the need for operator intervention and therefore the risk of exposure to these waste products. in 2007 stryker introduced the neptune 2 waste management platform. this next-generation system allows for increased fluid collection capacity while enhancing end user system preferences based on surgical procedures. through stryker instruments, the company offers spineplex, a variation of its surgical simplex bone cement for applications in the treatment of vertebral compression fractures. in 2006 the company introduced the discmonitor discography system, a disposable device used to inject fluid into the intervertebral disc nucleus during discography procedures. this system features a digital display and allows physicians to save key data points for each disc. stryker's radiofrequency generator system for chronic pain management, originally introduced in 2004, was enhanced in 2006 with improved user interfaces, a simplified operating system and the expansion of the cannula and electrode offerings, including the industry's first monopolar nitinol electrode. stryker also offers the dekompressor, a single-use disposable device indicated for the percutaneous removal of disc nucleus material, which offers an early, less invasive approach to mitigating back and leg pain associated with contained lumbar herniations. this product, along with stryker's offerings in percutaneous cement delivery, discography and radiofrequency denervation, allows stryker to focus on the interventional spine marketplace. surgical navigation systems through stryker instruments, the company offers a broad line of surgical navigation systems that give surgeons in several specialties the ability to use electronic imaging to see more clearly, better align instruments better and more accurately track where the instruments are relative to a patient's anatomy during surgical procedures. in 2006 stryker released two groundbreaking navigation applications for the joint replacement and craniomaxillofacial implant markets. the endtrac asm software and instrumentation give orthopaedic surgeons the option of navigating their cuts while eliminating the need to place additional pins in the femur and tibia outside of the surgical incision. the intellect software packages provide neurologic and ent surgeons with enhanced graphics, a significantly simplified image import process, customizable procedure-specific workflows and user-friendly advanced tools for comprehensive planning and navigation. during 2005 the company launched a number of new products across multiple surgical specialties to better serve the surgical navigation marketplace. for the knee implant market, enact knee 3.1 software was introduced, further simplifying the procedure via reactive workflow by leveraging stryker's smart instrumentation and camera technology. this unique technology promotes greater surgical efficiency because the software automatically reacts to a surgeon's individualized procedural workflow. to serve the implant instrumentation market, the company introduced the ortholock anchoring system, which allows for less invasive procedures and provides surgeons a choice of two- or three-pin tracker anchoring. stryker also released two major advancements in its neuro portfolio, neuro 2.0 software and the shunt placement tool. neuro 2.0 provides - 14 - surgeons the option of utilizing the company's mask technology to register the patient without traditional fiducial markers and increases surgical efficiency by significantly reducing intraoperative patient registration time. in spine navigation, spine 1.2 software was released for support of complex spine procedures, such as multiple-level scoliosis repair, requiring intraoperative 3d ct data. also in 2005, a portable laptop navigation system was introduced; it has a smaller footprint in the surgical suite, is easily portable, is cost efficient and offers the functionality and technological advantages of stryker's system ii cart. the company also offers the navigation system ii cart and camera as well as hip 2.0, uni-knee and knee 3.0 for use with the stryker navigation system. all of these product offerings are imageless platforms incorporating more intuitive hardware and software functions that result in greater ease of use, less invasive procedures and reduced surgical time. endoscopic, communications and digital imaging systems stryker endoscopy develops, manufactures and markets medical video-imaging and communications equipment and instruments for arthroscopy, general surgery and urology. stryker endoscopy has established a position of leadership in the production of medical video-imaging technology and accessories for minimally invasive surgery, as well as communications equipment to facilitate local and worldwide sharing of medical information among operating rooms, doctors' offices and teaching institutions. products include medical video cameras, digital documentation equipment, digital image and viewing software, arthroscopes, laparoscopes, powered surgical instruments, sports medicine instrumentation, radio frequency ablation systems, irrigation fluid management systems, i-suite operating room solutions and state-of-the-art equipment for telemedicine and enterprise-wide connectivity. stryker's line of rigid scopes, which range in diameter from 1.9 millimeters to 10 millimeters, contains a series of precision lenses as well as fiber optics that, when combined with stryker's high-definition (hd) camera systems, allow the physician to view internal anatomy with a high degree of clarity. in 2007 the company launched the stryker digital capture (sdc) ultra, an all-in-one medical imaging information management system allowing for patient scheduling, video capture and storage, dvd burning and more. the sdc ultra archives surgical images and videos on its 250-gigabyte internal hard drive. this system also allows for the recording of all surgical footage in high-definition video. through dual-channel input support, the sdc ultra can capture images and video independently on two separate video channels, in synchronized mode or in picture-in-picture format. also in 2007 stryker introduced the 45l pneumosure insufflator which provides exceptional performance with enhanced safety and reliability. this new insufflator is designed to handle the needs of today's dynamic surgical environment and includes two additional modes for bariatric and vessel harvesting. the 45l pneumosure insufflator offers real-time pressure sensing for increased accuracy during a procedure. its ability to maintain pneumoperitoneum under the most extreme conditions, coupled with a fully integrated color touch screen, allows for increased ease of use. in 2006 the company introduced the 1188 hd camera, the next generation of stryker 3-chip hd cameras. the 1188 hd offers superior picture quality, enhanced clarity and more intuitive user controls. this product provides surgical teams with improved visibility during endoscopic procedures, which can improve overall surgical and patient outcomes. in conjunction with the launch of the 1188 hd camera, the company also introduced complementary products, such as the x8000 lightsource and vision elect monitor, that feature improvements over earlier offerings. in 2004 stryker introduced the first hd medical video 3-chip camera, the 1088 hd. to accommodate the recording of hd images, the company introduced the sdc hd digital documentation system. another milestone was the introduction of best-in-class scope technology with the u-500 flexvision flexible ureteroscope. also in 2004 stryker launched its formula shaver system, which is small, light and equipped with radio frequency identification (rfid), facilitating communication between the blade and console. in 2006 stryker launched the infinity ii communication platform, featuring an intuitive customer interface and an open architecture. this second-generation model allows customers to run multiple pc - - 15 - applications from a single touch screen and to route hd digital signals through the industry's first digital video-imaging (dvi) board. in 2005 the company acquired etrauma, which expanded the company's digital imaging equipment product offerings by adding etrauma's proprietary pacs image management and viewing software. the pacs software was complemented by the 2005 launch of orthopad, stryker's electronic medical records software. in 2006 stryker launched office pacs 3.4, which provides seamless integration between the clinic and the operating room. patient handling and emergency medical equipment stryker medical is a leader in the stretcher products segment, offering a wide variety of stretchers customized to fit the needs of acute care and specialty surgical care facilities. in 2006 stryker medical introduced the acs stretcher, a value offering for the basic ambulatory surgery center market. in 2004 the company launched a completely new concept in stretcher design, the m-series stretcher. with a focus on patient safety and product mobility, the m-series features stryker's glideaway siderails, which provide maximum coverage when raised and a zero-transfer-gap when lowered; a 700-pound weight capacity; an integrated transfer board; and four-wheel, steel-ring brakes for stability. the m-series provides customers with three different mobility options to suit their transportation needs: a fifth wheel for enhanced steering, big wheel technology for increased maneuverability and the self-propelled zoom technology. all three mobility options provide a safe and comfortable surface for patients while reducing the risk of back injury for hospital staff. stryker medical also develops and manufactures beds and accessories that are designed to meet the unique needs of specialty departments within the acute care environment. in 2007 the company introduced the intouch, the first high-acuity care bed to combine advanced technology, intuitive operation and backsmart ergonomics to the benefit of both patients and caregivers. the revolutionary touch screen interface provides the caregiver with new insights into patient metrics. protocol reminders such as patient turn schedules are customizable to encourage best practices that have been proven to help improve patient outcomes. in 2005 stryker introduced the xprt nonintegrated sleep surface with low air loss, percussion and rotational functions to aid in the prevention and treatment of certain skin ulcers and pulmonary care. stryker also offers the ld304 birthing bed, which features a removable foot section with the unique lock-rite system, and the go bed ii medical/surgical bed, which features low bed-height for safe patient ingress and exit. the go bed ii also offers the optional chaperone center-of-gravity bed-exit system with zone control to help prevent patient falls. zone control is a feature that enables the caregiver to adjust the sensitivity of the bed-exit system to accommodate different patient needs. stryker has a complete line of intensive care unit (icu) beds for critical care and step-down units. the beds incorporate advanced features that facilitate patient care, such as in-bed scales that accurately weigh the patient regardless of bed position and a radiolucent surface that facilitates chest x-rays without moving the patient from the bed. to serve the prehospital market, the company offers the mx-pro bt ambulance cot with a weight capacity of 850 pounds for use in the emergency medical services transport market. to facilitate patient transport up and down stairs, stryker offers the stair-pro series of stair chairs. to better serve the emergency medical market, in 2006 stryker introduced a customized version of the power-pro ambulance cot, which was originally introduced in 2005. this new version extends the original design to carry transport incubators on both interfacility and intrafacility transports. the power-pro ambulance cot is a revolutionary design with an advanced electronic/hydraulic lift system that enables emergency medical professionals to effortlessly raise and lower the cot with the press of a button, which helps prevent caregiver back injuries. product development most of the company's products and product improvements have been developed internally. the company maintains close working relationships with physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. new and improved products play a critical role in the company's sales growth. the company continues to place emphasis on the development of proprietary - 16 - products and product improvements to complement and expand its existing product lines. the company has a decentralized research and development focus, with manufacturing locations responsible for new product development and product improvements. research, development and engineering personnel at the various manufacturing locations maintain relationships with staff at distribution locations and with customers to understand changes in the market and product needs. total expenditures for product research, development and engineering were $375.3 million in 2007, $324.6 million in 2006 and $284.7 million in 2005. research, development and engineering expenses represented 6.3% of sales in 2007, compared with 6.3% in 2006 and 6.2% in 2005. the higher spending level is the result of the company's continued focus on new product development for anticipated future product launches and continued investments in new technologies. recent new product introductions in the orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment segments are more fully described under the caption &quot; product sales &quot; on pages 6 through 16 of this report. in addition to internally developed products, the company invests in technologies developed by third parties that have the potential to expand the markets in which the company operates. certain of these investments result in charges for purchased in-process research and development. the purchased in-process research and development charges of $52.7 million recorded in 2006 and $15.9 million recorded in 2005 relate to the acquisitions of sightline and plasmasol, respectively. at the dates of these acquisitions, the technologies acquired from sightline, a developer of flexible endoscopes, and plasmasol, a developer of sterilization equipment, had not yet reached technological feasibility. in 2004 the company acquired spinecore, a developer of artificial lumbar and cervical discs. current products under development include the flexicore lumbar artificial disc and the cervicore cervical artificial disc. flexicore is currently involved in a u.s. clinical study under an approved ide granted by the fda. following completion of enrollment in the clinical study during 2005, a 2-year patient follow-up is ongoing. a pma application for the flexicore disc was submitted in 2007. in 2007 stryker completed enrollment in a u.s. clinical trial of the cervicore disc replacement product. submission of a pma application utilizing the resulting data from this study is anticipated in 2009. the company anticipates receiving ce marking approval in europe for the cervicore disc in 2008. the company believes that the technologies acquired in the sightline, plasmasol and spinecore acquisitions will result in the introduction of new products and additional future sales. however, factors including regulatory delays, safety concerns or patent disputes could delay the introduction or marketing of these potential new products. additionally, unanticipated issues may arise that could delay or terminate a product's development prior to regulatory approval or commercialization, which could have an unfavorable impact on the company's operating results. as of december 31, 2007, the company must refine certain product specifications highlighted during customer preference trials and validate manufacturing processes in order to achieve its plan for initial commercialization of the flexible endoscope technologies in 2008. as of december 31, 2007, the company had not encountered significant issues and expects completion of the development and initial commercialization of the spinal disc implant technologies beginning in 2008 and the sterilization technology in 2010. in 2006 the company opened a new facility to support product development activities across its manufacturing divisions. located near delhi, india, the facility will provide software and mechanical engineering resources for divisional research &amp; development teams to accelerate new product innovation and it facilitates the development and testing of stryker's internal systems. over time, the facility will also support local markets in asia to expand the company's presence in that region. marketing domestic sales accounted for 64% of total revenues in 2007. most of the company's products are marketed directly to doctors, hospitals and other healthcare facilities by approximately 3,500 sales and marketing personnel in the united states. stryker primarily maintains separate and dedicated sales forces for each of its principal product lines to provide focus and a high level of expertise to each medical specialty served. - 17 - international sales accounted for 36% of total revenues in 2007. the company's products are sold in more than 100 countries through more than 1,400 local dealers and direct sales efforts. local dealer support and direct sales are coordinated by approximately 2,550 sales and marketing personnel. stryker distributes its products through sales subsidiaries and branches with offices located in argentina, australia, austria, belgium, brazil, canada, chile, china, denmark, egypt, finland, france, germany, greece, hong kong, india, italy, japan, korea, malaysia, mexico, the netherlands, new zealand, norway, poland, portugal, romania, russia, serbia and montenegro, singapore, south africa, spain, sweden, switzerland, taiwan, ukraine, the united arab emirates and the united kingdom. stryker exports products to dealers and to customers in africa, bangladesh, the balkans, china, the cis (former soviet union), cyprus, czech republic, hungary, iceland, indonesia, ireland, israel, latin america, the middle east, paraguay, the philippines, slovakia, thailand, turkey, uruguay and vietnam. additional information regarding the company's international and domestic operations and sales appears in &quot; note 12 - segment and geographic data &quot; on pages 64 through 66 of this report. the company's business is generally not seasonal in nature; however, the number of orthopaedic implant surgeries is lower during the summer months. competition the company is one of five leading competitors in the united states for orthopaedic reconstructive products. the four other leading competitors are depuy orthopaedics, inc. (a subsidiary of johnson &amp; johnson), zimmer holdings, inc., biomet, inc., and smith &amp; nephew plc. while competition abroad varies from area to area, the company believes it is also a leading player in the international markets with these same companies as its principal competitors. in the trauma implant segment, stryker is one of five leaders competing principally with synthes, inc., smith &amp; nephew orthopaedics (a division of smith &amp; nephew plc), zimmer holdings, inc., and depuy orthopaedics, inc. in the spinal implant segment, the company is one of five leaders, competing principally with medtronic sofamor danek, inc. (a subsidiary of medtronic, inc.), depuy spine, inc. (a subsidiary of johnson &amp; johnson), synthes, inc., and zimmer holdings, inc. in the craniomaxillofacial implant segment, stryker is one of four leaders, competing principally with synthes, inc., walter lorenz surgical, inc. (a subsidiary of biomet, inc.), and kls martin l.p. several companies are engaged in the research and development of products for the repair of hard and soft tissues that, if approved, would compete with the company's op-1 product. medtronic sofamor danek has received fda approval for its recombinant bone morphogenetic protein (&quot;rhbmp-2&quot;) for certain spine, trauma and orthopaedic indications, including the treatment of acute, open fractures of the tibial shaft and spinal fusion surgeries. a number of companies currently provide various other therapies, including allografts, bone fillers and electrical stimulation devices for the treatment, repair or replacement of bone and joint tissue. the company believes that its op-1 product, which is approved for limited trauma and spine indications in certain markets and is currently in clinical trials for other indications, will ultimately compete with these products and with traditional therapies, such as autograft and allograft. in the surgical equipment segment, stryker is one of three leaders, competing principally with medtronic midas rex, inc. (a subsidiary of medtronic, inc.), and linvatec, inc. (a subsidiary of conmed corporation). these companies are also competitors in the international segments, along with aesculap-werke ag (a division of b. braun melsungen ag), a large european manufacturer. in the surgical navigation segment, stryker is one of six principal competitors, including medtronic surgical navigation technologies (a division of medtronic, inc.), brainlab inc. (a subsidiary of brainlab ag), aesculap ag &amp; co. kg (a division of b. braun melsungen ag), radionics, inc. (a subsidiary of tyco - 18 - international ltd.), and ge medical systems navigation and visualization, inc. (a subsidiary of general electric company). in the arthroscopy segment, the company is one of four leaders, together with the principal competitors smith &amp; nephew endoscopy (a division of smith &amp; nephew plc), linvatec, inc., and arthrex, inc. in the laparoscopic imaging products segment, the company is one of three leaders, together with the principal competitors, karl storz gmbh &amp; co. (a german company) and olympus optical co. ltd. (a japanese company). the company's primary competitor in the patient handling segment is hill-rom company, inc. (a division of hillenbrand industries, inc.). in the specialty stretcher segment, the primary competitors are hausted, inc. (a subsidiary of steris corporation), hill-rom company, inc., and midmark hospital products group (a subsidiary of ohio medical instrument company, inc.). in the emergency medical services segment, ferno-washington, inc., is the company's principal competitor. the principal factors that the company believes differentiate it in the highly competitive market segments in which it operates and enable it to compete effectively are innovation, reliability, service and reputation. the company believes that its competitive position in the future will depend to a large degree on its ability to develop new products and make improvements to existing products. while the company does not consider patents a major factor in its overall competitive success, patents and trademarks are significant to the extent that a product or an attribute of a product represents a unique design or process. patent protection of such products restricts competitors from duplicating these unique designs and features. stryker seeks to obtain patent protection on its products whenever possible. the company currently owns approximately 1,020 united states patents and 1,320 international patents. manufacturing and sources of supply the company's manufacturing processes consist primarily of precision machining, metal fabrication and assembly operations; the forging and investment casting of cobalt chrome; and the finishing of cobalt chrome and titanium. in addition, the company is the sole manufacturer of its op-1 product. approximately 12% of the company's cost of sales in 2007 represented finished products that were purchased complete from outside suppliers. the company also purchases parts and components, such as forgings, castings, gears, bearings, casters and electrical components, and uses outside sources for certain finishing operations, such as plating, hardening and coating of machined components and sterilization of certain products. the principal raw materials used by the company are stainless steel, aluminum, cobalt chrome and titanium alloys. in all, purchased parts and components from outside sources were approximately 51% of the total cost of sales in 2007. while the company relies on single sources for certain purchased materials and services, it believes alternate sources are available if needed. the company has not experienced any significant difficulty in the past in obtaining the materials necessary to meet its production schedules. substantially all products manufactured by the company are stocked in inventory, while certain products manufactured within the company's medsurg equipment segment are assembled to order. regulation and product quality the medical device amendments of 1976 to the federal food, drug and cosmetic act and the safe medical devices act of 1990, together with regulations issued or proposed thereunder, provide for regulation by the fda of the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, including most of the company's products. the fda's quality system regulations set forth standards for the company's product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of the company's facilities by the fda. there are also certain requirements of state, local and foreign governments that must be complied with in the manufacturing and marketing of the company's products. - 19 - in 2007 the company received two warning letters from the fda regarding compliance with certain quality system specifications at its reconstructive implant manufacturing facilities: one letter for its facility in cork, ireland and another for its facility in mahwah, new jersey. the company takes these matters very seriously and has been fully cooperating with the fda to address their observations. most of the company's new products fall into fda classifications that require notification of and review by the fda before marketing, submitted as a 510(k). the company's flexicore and cervicore artificial disc products and op-1 products require extensive clinical testing, consisting of safety and efficacy studies, followed by pma applications for specific surgical indications. stryker also is subject to the laws that govern the manufacture and distribution of medical devices of each country in which the company manufactures or sells products. the member states of the european union (eu) have adopted the european medical device directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all eu member countries. these regulations require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in eu member countries to obtain ce marking for their products. stryker has authorization to apply the ce marking to substantially all of its products. the company's op-1 product has been considered a drug under the regulations for europe, australia and japan. initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare expenses generally and hospital costs in particular, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where the company does business. it is not possible to predict at this time the long-term impact of such cost-containment measures on the company's future business. employees at december 31, 2007, the company had 16,026 employees worldwide, including 6,643 involved in manufacturing, warehousing and distribution operations; 6,138 in sales and marketing; 1,424 in research, development and engineering; and the balance in general management and administration. certain international employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are updated annually. the company believes that its employee relations are satisfactory. executive officers of the registrant information regarding the executive officers of the company appears under the caption &quot;item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance&quot; on pages 71 through 72 of this report. - 20 - item 1a. risk factors the following information contains specific risks that could potentially impact the company's business, financial condition or operating results. the company may be subject to additional risks that are not currently known to the company or those which the company deems immaterial that may also impact its business operations. the company's inability to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals could have a negative impact on the company's future operating results. the company maintains close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. the company continues to place emphasis on the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand its existing product lines. if the company is unable to maintain these good relationships, its ability to market and sell new and improved products could decrease, and future operating results could be unfavorably affected. the company's inability to continue to hire and retain key employees could have a negative impact on the company's future operating results. the talent and drive of the company's employees are key factors in the success of its business. the company's sales, technical and other key personnel play an integral role in the development, marketing and selling of new and existing products. if the company is unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work force, it may not be able to meet its strategic business objectives. stricter pricing guidelines for the orthopaedic implants industry could have a negative impact on the company's future operating results. initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where the company does business. the company could experience a negative impact on its operating results due to increased pricing pressure in the united states, japan and certain other markets. governments, hospitals and other third party payers could reduce the amount of approved reimbursements for the company's orthopaedic implant products. reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage, or other cost-containment measures could unfavorably affect the company's future operating results. the company's operating results could be negatively impacted by changes in its excess and obsolete inventory reserves. the company maintains reserves for excess and obsolete inventory resulting from the potential inability to sell its products at prices in excess of current carrying costs. the markets in which the company operates are highly competitive, and new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an ongoing basis. such marketplace changes may cause some of the company's products to become obsolete. the company makes estimates regarding the future recoverability of the costs of these products and records a provision for excess and obsolete inventories based on historical experience, expiration of sterilization dates and expected future trends. if actual product life cycles, product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less favorable than projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required, which could unfavorably affect future operating results. the company's operating results could be negatively impacted if it is unable to capitalize on research and development spending. the company has spent a significant amount of time and resources on research and development projects in order to develop and validate new and innovative products. the company believes these projects will result in the manufacturing of new products and will create additional future sales. however, factors including regulatory - - 21 - delays, safety concerns or patent disputes could delay the introduction or marketing of new products. additionally, unanticipated issues may arise in connection with current and future clinical studies, including those for additional op-1 applications and the flexicore and cervicore spinal implant products, that could delay or terminate a product's development prior to regulatory approval. the company may experience an unfavorable impact on its operating results if it is unable to capitalize on those efforts by attaining the proper fda approval or to successfully market these and other new products, including the sightline flexible endoscope products and the plasmasol sterilization products. the company's operating results could be negatively impacted by future product liability claims, unfavorable court decisions, regulatory compliance or legal settlements. the company is a defendant in various proceedings, legal actions and claims arising in the normal course of business, including product liability and other matters. such matters are subject to many uncertainties, and outcomes are not predictable with assurance. to partially mitigate losses arising from unfavorable outcomes in such matters, the company purchases third-party insurance coverage subject to certain deductibles and loss limitations. while the company believes its current insurance coverage is adequate to mitigate losses arising from such matters, its future operating results may be unfavorably impacted by any settlement payments or losses beyond the amounts of insurance carried. likewise, the company may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether it is found to be liable. in addition, such product liability settlements may negatively impact the company's ability to obtain cost-effective third-party insurance coverage in future periods. in 2007 the company disclosed that the u.s. securities and exchange commission has made an informal inquiry of the company regarding possible violations of the foreign corrupt practices act in connection with the sale of medical devices in certain foreign countries. subsequently, in 2008, the company received a subpoena from the u.s. department of justice, criminal division, requesting certain documents for the period january 1, 2000 through the present in connection with the u.s. securities and exchange commission inquiry. in 2006 the company announced that it received a subpoena from the u.s. department of justice, antitrust division, requesting documents for the period january 2001 through the present regarding possible violations of federal criminal law, including possible violation of the antitrust laws, relating to the manufacture and sale of orthopaedic implant devices. stryker is fully cooperating with the u.s. department of justice and the u.s. securities and exchange commission regarding these matters. in 2007 the company reached a resolution with the u.s. attorney's office for the district of new jersey in connection with a previously announced investigation relating to &quot;any and all consulting contracts, professional service agreements, or remuneration agreements between stryker corporation and any orthopedic surgeon, orthopedic surgeon in training, or medical school graduate using or considering the surgical use of hip or knee joint replacement/reconstruction products manufactured or sold by stryker corporation.&quot; the resolution is in the form of a non-prosecution agreement for an 18-month period. during the term of the agreement, the company's orthopaedics subsidiary is subject to oversight by a federal monitor, as appointed by the u.s. attorney, regarding compliance with certain standards and procedures in connection with the retention and payment of orthopaedic surgeon consultants related to reconstructive products and the provision of certain benefits to such surgeons. in 2007 the company received two warning letters from the fda regarding compliance with certain quality system specifications at its reconstructive implant manufacturing facilities: one letter for its facility in cork, ireland and another for its facility in mahwah, new jersey. the company takes these matters very seriously and has been fully cooperating with the fda to address their observations. as a result of these investigations, the company's future operating results could be negatively impacted by settlements of these matters. the company's operating results could be negatively impacted by economic, political or other developments in countries in which the company does business. future operating results could be negatively impacted by unstable economic, political and social conditions, including but not limited to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, political instability, or - 22 - changes in the interpretation or creation of laws and regulations in each of the countries where the company conducts business, including the united states. additionally, the company operates in multiple income tax jurisdictions and must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. income tax audits associated with the allocation of income and other complex issues may result in significant income tax adjustments that could negatively impact the company's future operating results. item 1b. unresolved staff comments not applicable. item 2. properties the company has the following properties: square owned/ location segment use feet leased mahwah, new jersey orthopaedic implants manufacturing of reconstructive 529,000 owned implants limerick, ireland orthopaedic implants manufacturing of reconstructive 130,000 owned implants and op-1 herouville, france orthopaedic implants manufacturing of reconstructive 130,000 owned implants kiel, germany orthopaedic implants manufacturing of trauma implants 147,000 owned selzach, switzerland orthopaedic implants manufacturing of trauma implants 78,000 owned neuch tel, switzerland orthopaedic implants manufacturing of spinal implants 88,000 owned bordeaux, france orthopaedic implants manufacturing of spinal implants 74,000 owned bordeaux, france orthopaedic implants manufacturing of spinal implants 35,000 leased carrigtwohill, ireland orthopaedic implants manufacturing of reconstructive 154,000 owned and medsurg implants and surgical equipment equipment freiburg, germany orthopaedic implants manufacturing of 88,000 owned and medsurg craniomaxillofacial implants equipment and surgical navigation systems stetten, germany orthopaedic implants manufacturing of 29,000 owned craniomaxillofacial implants west lebanon, new hampshire orthopaedic implants manufacturing of op-1 140,000 owned hopkinton, massachusetts orthopaedic implants manufacturing of op-1 69,000 leased portage, michigan medsurg equipment manufacturing of surgical 1,024,000 owned equipment and patient-handling and emergency medical equipment arroyo, puerto rico medsurg equipment manufacturing of surgical 220,000 leased equipment and endoscopic systems san jose, california medsurg equipment manufacturing of endoscopic 165,000 leased systems - 23 - square owned/ location segment use feet leased flower mound, texas medsurg equipment manufacturing of 127,000 leased communications systems l'islet, canada medsurg equipment manufacturing of patient- 127,000 owned handling equipment kalamazoo, michigan other corporate headquarters 75,000 owned in addition to the above, the company maintains administrative and sales offices and warehousing and distribution facilities in various countries, including the united states, argentina, australia, austria, belgium, brazil, canada, chile, china, denmark, egypt, finland, france, germany, greece, hong kong, india, israel, italy, japan, korea, malaysia, mexico, the netherlands, new zealand, norway, poland, portugal, romania, russia, serbia and montenegro, singapore, south africa, spain, sweden, switzerland, taiwan, thailand, ukraine, the united arab emirates and the united kingdom. the company believes that its properties are suitable and adequate for the manufacture and distribution of the company's products. item 3. legal proceedings the company is involved in various proceedings, legal actions and claims arising in the normal course of business, including proceedings related to product, labor, intellectual property and other matters which are more fully described in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. the potential future outcomes of these matters are outside of management's complete control and will generally not be known for prolonged periods of time. in certain of the legal proceedings, the claimants seek damages, as well as other compensatory relief, which could result in the payment of significant claims and settlements. in legal matters for which management has sufficient information to reasonably estimate the company's future obligations, a liability representing management's best estimate of the probable cost for the resolution of these legal matters is recorded. the estimates are based on consultation with legal counsel, previous settlement experience and settlement strategies. the company does not anticipate material losses as a result of these proceedings beyond amounts already provided in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders not applicable. executive officers certain information with respect to the executive officers of the company is set forth in item 10 of this report. - 24 - part ii item 5. market for the registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities the company's common stock is traded on the new york stock exchange under the symbol syk. quarterly stock prices appear under the caption &quot; summary of quarterly data (unaudited) &quot; on page 68 of this report and dividend information for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006 appears under the caption &quot; summary of operations &quot; in item 6 below. the company's board of directors considers a year-end cash dividend annually at its december meeting. in the fourth quarter of 2007, the company issued 230 shares of common stock as performance incentive awards to certain employees. the shares were not registered under the securities act of 1933 based on the conclusion that the awards would not be events of sale within the meaning of section 2(a)(3) of the act. on january 31, 2008, there were 4,518 shareholders of record of the company's common stock. - 25 - item 6. selected financial data the financial information for each of the five years in the period ended december 31, 2007 is set forth below (dollars in millions, except per share amounts): summary of operations 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 net sales $6,000.5 $5,147.2 $4,608.9 $4,017.4 $3,402.3 cost of sales 1,865.2 1,616.6 1,489.2 1,303.8 1,131.9 gross profit 4,135.3 3,530.6 3,119.7 2,713.6 2,270.4 research, development and engineering expenses 375.3 324.6 284.7 214.9 183.0 selling, general and administrative expenses 2,391.5 2,047.0 1,839.4 1,655.4 1,426.1 intangibles amortization 41.4 42.7 47.6 44.6 45.0 other (a) 19.8 52.7 15.9 120.8 -- 2,828.0 2,467.0 2,187.6 2,035.7 1,654.1 operating income 1,307.3 1,063.6 932.1 677.9 616.3 other income (expense) 62.8 30.2 4.9 (2.9) (18.4) earnings from continuing operations before income taxes 1,370.1 1,093.8 937.0 675.0 597.9 income taxes 383.4 322.4 304.5 237.0 179.3 net earnings from continuing operations 986.7 771.4 632.5 438.0 418.6 net earnings and gain on sale of discontinued operations 30.7 6.3 11.1 2.0 15.8 net earnings $1,017.4 $ 777.7 $ 643.6 $ 440.0 $ 434.4 net earnings from continuing operations per share of common stock (b) : basic $2.41 $1.90 $1.57 $1.09 $1.05 diluted $2.37 $1.87 $1.54 $1.07 $1.03 net earnings per share of common stock (b) : basic $2.48 $1.91 $1.59 $1.10 $1.09 diluted $2.44 $1.89 $1.57 $1.08 $1.07 dividend per share of common stock (b) $.33 $.22 $.11 $.09 $.07 average number of shares outstanding (b) : basic 409.7 406.5 403.7 401.2 397.8 diluted 417.2 411.8 410.8 409.3 406.2 (a) includes intangible asset impairment and purchased in-process research and development charges. (b) adjusted for the two-for-one stock split effective may 14, 2004. financial and statistical data 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 cash and marketable securities 2,410.8 1,414.8 1,056.5 349.4 65.9 working capital 3,571.9 2,182.8 1,621.3 1,029.1 563.2 current ratio 3.7 2.6 2.3 1.9 1.7 property, plant and equipment - net 991.6 914.9 796.3 670.2 577.4 capital expenditures 187.7 209.4 261.8 180.5 139.5 depreciation and amortization 366.6 324.1 282.7 242.8 224.8 total assets 7,354.0 5,873.8 4,992.5 4,120.0 3,188.1 long-term debt, including current maturities 16.8 14.8 231.6 10.0 26.1 shareholders' equity 5,378.5 4,191.0 3,300.2 2,788.2 2,183.9 return on average equity 21.3% 20.8% 21.1% 17.7% 23.5% net cash provided by operating activities 1,028.3 867.3 833.4 559.5 616.7 number of shareholders of record 4,373 4,091 3,979 3,784 3,084 number of employees 16,026 18,806 17,265 15,891 14,762 - 26 - item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations throughout this discussion, references are made to the following financial measures: &quot;constant currency,&quot; &quot;adjusted net earnings from continuing operations,&quot; &quot;adjusted basic net earnings per share from continuing operations&quot; and &quot;adjusted diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations.&quot; these financial measures are an alternative representation of stryker corporation's (the company or stryker) past and potential future operational performance and do not replace the presentation of the company's reported financial results under u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (gaap). the company has provided these supplemental non-gaap financial measures because they provide meaningful information regarding the company's results on a consistent and comparable basis for the periods presented. management uses these non-gaap financial measures for reviewing the operating results of its business segments, for analyzing potential future business trends in connection with its budget process and bases certain annual bonus plans on these non-gaap financial measures. in order to measure the company's sales performance on a constant currency basis, it is necessary to remove the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates which affects the comparability and trend of sales. constant currency results are calculated by translating current year results at prior year average foreign currency exchange rates. in order to measure earnings performance on a consistent and comparable basis, the company excludes the intangible asset impairment charge recorded in 2007, the purchased in-process research and development charges recorded in 2006 and 2005 and the additional income taxes associated with the repatriation of foreign earnings recorded in 2005, each of which affects the comparability of operating results and the trend of earnings. additional details regarding the nature, determination and financial statement impact of these items are included in results of operations . in addition, the company believes investors will utilize this information to evaluate period-to-period results on a comparable basis and to better understand potential future operating results. the company encourages investors and other users of these financial statements to review its consolidated financial statements and other publicly filed reports in their entirety and not to rely solely on any single financial measure. executive level overview stryker is one of the world's leading medical technology companies with the most broadly based range of products in orthopaedics and a significant presence in other medical specialties. stryker works with respected medical professionals to help people lead more active and more satisfying lives. the company's products include implants used in joint replacement, trauma, spinal and craniomaxillofacial surgeries; biologics; surgical, neurologic, ear, nose &amp; throat and interventional pain equipment; endoscopic, surgical navigation, communications and digital imaging systems; as well as patient handling and emergency medical equipment. the company segregates its operations into two reportable business segments: orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment. the orthopaedic implants segment sells orthopaedic reconstructive (hip, knee and shoulder), trauma, spinal and craniomaxillofacial implant systems, bone cement and the bone growth factor op-1. the medsurg equipment segment sells surgical equipment; surgical navigation systems; endoscopic, communications and digital imaging systems; as well as patient handling and emergency medical equipment. the other category includes corporate administration, interest expense and interest and marketable securities income. domestic sales accounted for 64% of total revenues in 2007. most of the company's products are marketed directly to doctors, hospitals and other healthcare facilities by approximately 3,500 sales and marketing personnel in the united states. stryker primarily maintains separate and dedicated sales forces for each of its principal product lines to provide focus and a high level of expertise to each medical specialty served. international sales accounted for 36% of total revenues in 2007. the company's products are sold in more than 100 countries through company-owned sales subsidiaries and branches as well as third-party dealers and distributors. - 27 - the company's business is generally not seasonal in nature; however, the number of orthopaedic implant surgeries is lower during the summer months. in 2007 the company announced that it reached a resolution with the u.s. attorney's office for the district of new jersey in connection with a previously announced investigation relating to &quot;any and all consulting contracts, professional service agreements, or remuneration agreements between stryker corporation and any orthopedic surgeon, orthopedic surgeon in training, or medical school graduate using or considering the surgical use of hip or knee joint replacement/reconstruction products manufactured or sold by stryker corporation.&quot; the resolution is in the form of a non-prosecution agreement for an 18-month period. during the term of the agreement, the company's orthopaedics subsidiary is subject to oversight by a federal monitor, as appointed by the u.s. attorney, regarding compliance with certain standards and procedures in connection with the retention and payment of orthopaedic surgeon consultants related to reconstructive products and the provision of certain benefits to such surgeons. in 2007 the company sold its outpatient physical therapy business, physiotherapy associates, to water street healthcare partners, for $150.0 million in cash less certain indebtedness. physiotherapy associates' operating results are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. additional details, including the financial statement impact resulting from this divestiture, are included in results of operations and other matters . in 2007 the company adopted the provisions of financial accounting standards board (fasb) interpretation no. 48, accounting for uncertainty in income taxes . this interpretation clarifies the accounting for income taxes by prescribing the minimum recognition threshold an income tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the company's consolidated financial statements. the interpretation also provides guidance for the measurement and classification of income tax positions, interest and penalties, and requires additional disclosure on an annual basis. additional details, including the financial statement impact resulting from this adoption, are included in results of operations . in 2006 the company acquired all of the outstanding stock of sightline technologies ltd. (sightline), a private, development-stage company, for an upfront payment of $50.0 million in cash plus certain transaction costs and the assumption of certain liabilities. sightline has developed flexible endoscopes that should improve insertion and sterilization during colonoscopy procedures. terms of the transaction also include milestone payments of up to an additional $90.0 million upon the achievement of certain operational and financial targets related to sightline's products, the first of which is expected to occur in 2008. this acquisition is expected to enhance the company's presence in the gastrointestinal and other markets within its medsurg equipment segment. in 2005 the company acquired, by merger, all of the outstanding stock of plasmasol corp. (plasmasol). plasmasol has developed a technology that should allow stryker to provide sterilization equipment for use with certain of its medsurg equipment products. the cost of the transaction totaled $17.5 million, including an upfront cash payment plus the assumption of certain liabilities. in 2005 the company acquired, by merger, all of the outstanding stock of etrauma.com corp. (etrauma) for $50.0 million in cash plus certain transaction costs. the acquisition expanded the company's digital imaging equipment product offerings within its medsurg equipment segment by adding etrauma's proprietary picture archive and communications systems (pacs) image management and viewing software. sightline's, plasmasol's and etrauma's operating results are included in the company's consolidated financial statements from the date of the acquisitions and did not materially impact the company's operating results. pro forma consolidated results of operations would not differ significantly as a result of these acquisitions. additional details, including the financial statement impacts resulting from these acquisitions, are included in results of operations. - - 28 - in 2005 the company completed the repatriation of $722 million of foreign earnings under the provisions of the american jobs creation act (the act). the act provided a temporary incentive for u.s. companies to repatriate accumulated income earned in foreign jurisdictions at a reduced income tax cost. additional details, including the financial statement impact resulting from the repatriation of funds, are included in results of operations . outlook for 2008 the company's outlook for 2008 continues to be optimistic regarding underlying growth rates in orthopaedic procedures and sales growth in the company's broadly based range of products in orthopaedics and other medical specialties, despite the potential for increased pricing pressure in certain markets. the company projects that diluted net earnings per share for 2008 will approximate $2.88, representing a 22% increase over diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.37 for the year ended december 31, 2007. excluding the impact of the charge to reflect the intangible asset impairment in 2007, as more fully described in results of operations , the company projects that diluted net earnings per share for 2008 will increase 20% over adjusted diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.40 for the year ended december 31, 2007. the financial forecast for 2008 includes a constant currency net sales increase in the range of 11% to 13% as a result of growth in shipments of orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment. if foreign currency exchange rates hold near december 31, 2007 levels, the company anticipates a favorable impact on net sales of approximately 2.5% to 3% in the first quarter of 2008 and a favorable impact on net sales of approximately 1% to 1.5% for the full year of 2008. results of operations the table below outlines the components of net earnings from continuing operations from the consolidated statements of earnings as a percentage of net sales and the year-to-year percentage change in dollar amounts: percentage of net sales percentage change 2007 2006 2005 2007/2006 2006/2005 net sales 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 17% 12% cost of sales 31.1 31.4 32.3 15 9 gross profit 68.9 68.6 67.7 17 13 research, development and engineering expenses 6.3 6.3 6.2 16 14 selling, general and administrative expenses 39.9 39.8 39.9 17 11 intangibles amortization 0.7 0.8 1.0 (3) (10) intangible asset impairment 0.3 -- -- -- -- purchased in-process research and development -- 1.0 0.3 (100) 231 operating income 21.8 20.7 20.2 23 14 other income (expense) 1.0 0.6 0.1 108 516 earnings from continuing operations before income taxes 22.8 21.3 20.3 25 17 income taxes 6.4 6.3 6.6 19 6 net earnings from continuing operations 16.4% 15.0% 13.7% 28 22 - 29 - the table below sets forth domestic/international and product line sales information: net sales (in millions) percentage change 2007 2006 2005 2007/2006 2006/2005 domestic/international sales: domestic $3,850.3 $3,298.4 $2,903.0 17% 14% international 2,150.2 1,848.8 1,705.9 16 8 total net sales $6,000.5 $5,147.2 $4,608.9 17 12 product line sales: orthopaedic implants $3,570.7 $3,110.1 $2,849.5 15 9 medsurg equipment 2,429.8 2,037.1 1,759.4 19 16 total net sales $6,000.5 $5,147.2 $4,608.9 17 12 the tables below set forth additional geographical sales growth information for significant products within the company's orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment segments on both a reported basis and a constant currency basis: year ended december 31, 2007 percentage change domestic international total constant constant reported reported currency reported currency orthopaedic implants sales: hips 7 12 5 9 6 knees 15 16 9 16 13 trauma 29 12 6 19 15 spinal 29 16 10 25 23 craniomaxillofacial 24 6 0 17 14 total orthopaedic implants 16 13 7 15 12 medsurg equipment sales: surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems 17 26 18 20 17 endoscopic, communications and digital imaging systems 18 30 21 21 19 patient handling and emergency medical equipment 18 7 3 16 15 total medsurg equipment 18 24 17 19 17 - 30 - - year ended december 31, 2006 percentage change domestic international total constant constant reported reported currency reported currency orthopaedic implants sales: hips 4 0 1 2 2 knees 16 7 7 12 12 trauma 23 7 9 13 14 spinal 20 13 14 18 18 craniomaxillofacial 24 7 7 16 16 total orthopaedic implants 12 5 6 9 9 medsurg equipment sales: surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems 12 13 13 12 12 endoscopic, communications and digital imaging systems 16 32 30 19 19 patient handling and emergency medical equipment 19 14 10 18 17 total medsurg equipment 15 19 18 16 16 2007 compared with 2006 the company's net sales increased 17% in 2007 to $6,000.5 million from $5,147.2 million in 2006. net sales grew by 14% as a result of increased unit volume and changes in product mix and by 3% due to favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the company's domestic sales were $3,850.3 million for 2007, representing an increase of 17%, and international sales were $2,150.2 million for 2007, representing an increase of 16%, as a result of higher shipments of orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment. the impact of foreign currency comparisons to the dollar value of international sales was favorable by $131.5 million for 2007. on a constant currency basis, international sales increased 9% in 2007. worldwide sales of orthopaedic implants were $3,570.7 million for 2007, representing an increase of 15% as a result of higher shipments of reconstructive, trauma, spinal and craniomaxillofacial implant systems; bone cement; and the bone growth factor op-1. on a constant currency basis, sales of orthopaedic implants increased 12% in 2007. hip implant systems: sales of hip implant systems increased 9% during the year (6% on a constant currency basis). in the united states, sales growth was driven by sales of x3 polyethylene and accolade cementless hip products, partially offset by declines in other hip systems. solid sales growth in the exeter, trident, x3 polyethylene and accolade hip products in europe, the pacific region and the latin america region also led to the company's constant currency sales growth for 2007. knee implant systems: sales of knee implant systems increased 16% during the year (13% on a constant currency basis) due to strong growth in the triathlon knee system in the united states, europe, canada and the pacific region and solid growth in the scorpio knee system in europe, the pacific region and the latin america region. - - 31 - trauma implant systems: sales of trauma implant systems increased 19% in 2007 (15% on a constant currency basis) as a result of strong sales growth in the gamma3 hip fracture system in the united states, europe, canada and the pacific region as well as solid sales growth in the company's t2 nailing system in the united states and europe, partially offset by a sales decline in japan as a result of government-imposed price cuts. spinal implant systems: sales of spinal implant systems increased 25% in 2007 (23% on a constant currency basis). sales growth for 2007 was driven by strong worldwide sales growth of thoracolumbar implant systems, interbody devices and cervical implants. craniomaxillofacial implant systems: sales of craniomaxillofacial implant systems increased 17% in 2007 (14% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to strong sales growth of products for neurological indications and craniomaxillofacial implants in the united states, europe and the pacific region. worldwide sales of medsurg equipment were $2,429.8 million for 2007, representing an increase of 19% as a result of higher shipments of surgical equipment; surgical navigation systems; endoscopic, communications and digital imaging systems; as well as patient handling and emergency medical equipment. on a constant currency basis, sales of medsurg equipment increased 17% in 2007. surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems: sales of surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems increased 20% in 2007 (17% on a constant currency basis) due to strong sales growth in powered surgical and operating room equipment in the united states, europe and the pacific region. solid sales growth in interventional pain products in europe also led to the company's constant currency sales growth. endoscopic, communications and digital imaging systems: sales of endoscopic, communications and digital imaging systems increased 21% in 2007 (19% on a constant currency basis) as a result of strong worldwide sales growth of medical video imaging equipment led by the 1188 hd camera and complementary products such as the x8000 lightsource and vision elect monitor. strong sales growth in arthroscopy and communication products in the united states, europe and the pacific region also led to the company's constant currency sales growth. patient handling and emergency medical equipment: sales of patient handling and emergency medical equipment increased 16% in 2007 (15% on a constant currency basis) due to strong sales growth of stretchers and emergency medical equipment in the united states and europe. in addition, constant currency sales growth in 2007 was led by strong sales growth in hospital beds in the united states as well as strong sales growth in maternity beds in the united states, canada, europe and the latin america region. cost of sales represented 31.1% of sales in 2007 compared with 31.4% in 2006. the cost of sales percentage in 2007 was favorably impacted by efficiencies gained within manufacturing plants and product distribution channels. research, development and engineering expenses represented 6.3% of sales for both 2007 and 2006. these expenses increased 16% in 2007 to $375.3 million. the higher spending level is the result of the company's continued focus on new product development for anticipated future product launches and continued investments in new technologies. new product introductions in 2007 for the orthopaedic implants segment included the condylar stabilizing (cs) ultra-congruent insert for the triathlon knee system; the scorpio nrg with x3 advanced bearing technology; and the omega 3 compression hip screw system. within the medsurg equipment segment, new product introductions in 2007 included intouch, a high-acuity care bed; the sdc ultra, an all-in-one medical imaging information management system; the core sumex drill, designed for use in ent procedures; and the 45l pneumosure insufflator. selling, general and administrative expenses increased 17% in 2007 and represented 39.9% of sales compared with 39.8% in 2006. the slight increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales in 2007 is due to higher sales-related costs, primarily compensation and increased regulatory compliance- - 32 - - related costs, partially offset by decreases in insurance costs and slower growth in discretionary spending. in 2007 the company recorded a $19.8 million charge ($12.7 million net of income taxes) to write off patents associated with intervertebral body fusion cage products. the impairment followed a u.s. food and drug administration (fda) decision to downgrade certain intervertebral body fusion products to class ii devices, along with a weak market for sales of these specific products. as a result, the company performed a discounted cash flow analysis over the remaining life of the patented technologies and determined that the charge was required. the purchased in-process research and development charge of $52.7 million recorded in 2006 relates to the acquisition of sightline. at the date of the acquisition, the flexible endoscope technologies acquired had not yet reached technological feasibility. the upfront payment of $50.0 million, plus certain transaction costs and the assumption of certain liabilities, was allocated to assets acquired, purchased in-process research and development and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. the amount written off as purchased in-process research and development was not deductible for income tax purposes in the united states. the company believes that the technologies acquired in the sightline acquisition will result in the introduction of new products and additional future sales. however, unanticipated issues may arise that could delay or terminate a product's development prior to commercialization, which could have an unfavorable impact on the company's operating results. as of december 31, 2007, the company must refine certain product specifications highlighted during customer preference trials and validate manufacturing processes in order to achieve its plan for initial commercialization of the flexible endoscope technologies in 2008. interest and marketable securities income, which is included in other income (expense), increased to $85.5 million in 2007 from $41.4 million in 2006 primarily as a result of increased cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities balances in 2007 compared to 2006. interest expense, which is included in other income (expense), increased to $22.2 million in 2007 from $9.5 million in 2006, primarily as a result of interest expense associated with unresolved income tax positions. the company's effective income tax rate on earnings from continuing operations for the year ended december 31, 2007 was 28.0% compared to an effective income tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2006 of 29.5%. the effective income tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2007 reflects the impact of the intangible asset impairment charge of $12.7 million (net of $7.1 million income tax benefit). the effective income tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2006 reflects the impact of the nondeductibility for income tax purposes of the purchased in-process research and development charge associated with the acquisition of sightline. after considering these factors, the company's reported effective income tax rates for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006 are lower than the u.s. statutory income tax rate primarily as a result of manufacturing in lower income tax international jurisdictions. upon adoption of fasb interpretation no. 48, the company recognized an increase in the interest expense accrual associated with unresolved income tax positions, which was accounted for by reducing the january 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings by $7.6 million (net of income taxes). in addition, the company reclassified $179.2 million from the current income taxes liability to noncurrent liabilities to match the anticipated timing of future income tax payments. net earnings from continuing operations increased 28% in 2007 to $986.7 million from $771.4 million in 2006. basic net earnings per share from continuing operations increased 27% in 2007 to $2.41 from $1.90 in 2006, and diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations increased 27% in 2007 to $2.37 from $1.87 in 2006. excluding the impacts of the charges to reflect the intangible asset impairment in 2007 and to write off purchased in-process research and development recorded in 2006, adjusted net earnings from continuing operations increased 21% in 2007 to $999.4 million from $824.1 million in 2006. adjusted basic net earnings per share from continuing operations increased 20% in 2007 to $2.44 from $2.03 in 2006, and adjusted diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations increased 20% in 2007 to $2.40 from $2.00 in 2006. - - 33 - the reconciliations of these non-gaap financial measures are as follows (in millions, except per share amounts): 2007 2006 percentage change reported net earnings from continuing operations $986.7 $771.4 28% intangible asset impairment 12.7 -- -- purchased in-process research and development -- 52.7 (100) adjusted net earnings from continuing operations $999.4 $824.1 21 basic net earnings per share of common stock: reported basic net earnings per share of common stock from continuing operations $2.41 $1.90 27 intangible asset impairment $.03 -- -- purchased in-process research and development -- $.13 (100) adjusted basic net earnings per share of common stock from continuing operations $2.44 $2.03 20 weighted-average basic shares outstanding 409.7 406.5 diluted net earnings per share of common stock: reported diluted net earnings per share of common stock from continuing operations $2.37 $1.87 27 intangible asset impairment $.03 -- -- purchased in-process research and development -- $.13 (100) adjusted diluted net earnings per share of common stock from continuing operations $2.40 $2.00 20 weighted-average diluted shares outstanding 417.2 411.8 the weighted-average basic and diluted shares outstanding used in the calculation of these non-gaap financial measures are the same as the weighted-average shares outstanding used in the calculation of the reported per share amounts. the sale of physiotherapy associates resulted in a gain on sale of discontinued operations of $25.7 million (net of income taxes), or $.06 per diluted share in 2007. net earnings from discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2007 were $5.0 million, or $.01 per diluted share, compared to net earnings from discontinued operations of $6.3 million, or $.02 per diluted share, for the year ended december 31, 2006. net earnings increased 31% in 2007 to $1,017.4 million from $777.7 million in 2006. basic net earnings per share increased 30% in 2007 to $2.48 from $1.91 in 2006, and diluted net earnings per share increased 29% in 2007 to $2.44 from $1.89 in 2006. 2006 compared with 2005 the company's net sales increased 12% in 2006 to $5,147.2 million from $4,608.9 million in 2005. net sales grew by 11% as a result of increased unit volume and changes in product mix and 1% as a result of higher selling prices. domestic sales were $3,298.4 million for 2006, representing an increase of 14% as a result of higher shipments of orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment. international sales were $1,848.8 million for 2006, representing an increase of 8% as a result of higher shipments of orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment. the impact of foreign currency comparisons to the dollar value of international sales was unfavorable by $5.2 million for 2006. on a constant currency basis, international sales increased 9% in 2006. - - 34 - worldwide sales of orthopaedic implants were $3,110.1 million for 2006, representing an increase of 9%, on both a reported and constant currency basis, as a result of higher shipments of reconstructive, trauma, spinal and craniomaxillofacial implant systems; bone cement; and the bone growth factor op-1. hip implant systems: sales of hip implant systems increased 2% during the year on both a reported and constant currency basis. in the united states, sales growth was driven by sales of the recently launched x3 polyethylene and increased sales in accolade cementless hip products and restoration modular hip system revision hip products, partially offset by declines in sales of other hip systems. solid growth in the trident hip system, accolade cementless hip products and restoration modular hip system revision hip products in europe as well as solid growth in accolade cementless hip products and the trident hip system in the pacific region also contributed to the sales growth in hip implant systems. knee implant systems: sales of knee implant systems increased 12% during the year, on both a reported and constant currency basis, due to strong growth in the triathlon knee system in the united states, europe and the pacific region and solid growth in the scorpio knee system in most international markets, partially offset by slower growth in japan as a result of government imposed price cuts. trauma implant systems: sales of trauma implant systems increased 13% during the year (14% on a constant currency basis) due to strong worldwide sales growth in the gamma3 hip fracture system and strong sales growth in the t2 nailing system in the united states and europe, partially offset by slower growth in japan as a result of the price cuts. spinal implant systems: sales of spinal implant systems increased 18% during the year, on both a reported and constant currency basis, primarily due to strong worldwide sales growth of interbody devices led by sales of the avs vertebral spacer system as well as solid worldwide sales growth in thoracolumbar products. craniomaxillofacial implant systems: sales of craniomaxillofacial implant systems increased 16% during the year, on both a reported and constant currency basis, as a result of strong domestic sales growth led by products for neurologic indications and craniomaxillofacial implants. worldwide sales of medsurg equipment were $2,037.1 million for 2006, representing an increase of 16%, on both a reported and constant currency basis, as a result of higher shipments of surgical equipment; surgical navigation systems; endoscopic, communications and digital imaging systems; as well as patient handling and emergency medical equipment. surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems: sales of surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems increased 12% during the year, on both a reported and constant currency basis, due to strong domestic sales growth in surgical navigation systems and operating room equipment and solid domestic sales growth in interventional pain products. strong sales growth in powered surgical instruments outside the united states also led to the company's sales growth. endoscopic, communications and digital imaging systems: sales of endoscopic, communications and digital imaging systems increased 19% during the year, on both a reported and constant currency basis, as a result of strong worldwide sales growth in medical video imaging equipment led by the recently launched 1188 hd camera and related accessories as well as imaging and communications products. strong worldwide sales growth in general surgery products also contributed to the company's sales growth. patient handling and emergency medical equipment: sales of patient handling and emergency medical equipment increased 18% during the year (17% on a constant currency basis) due to strong sales growth in hospital bed products in the united states, the latin america region and canada, strong domestic sales growth in emergency medical equipment as well as solid stretcher sales growth in europe and the latin america region. - - 35 - cost of sales represented 31.4% of sales in 2006 compared with 32.3% in 2005. the lower cost of sales percentage in 2006 is primarily due to lower excess and obsolete inventory costs as a result of fewer comparative product introductions during the year and reduced royalty costs related to the expiration of certain royalty agreements partially offset by faster sales growth in the lower margin medsurg equipment segment. research, development and engineering expenses represented 6.3% of sales in 2006 compared with 6.2% in 2005. these expenses increased 14% in 2006 to $324.6 million. the higher spending level is the result of the company's continued focus on new product development for anticipated future product launches and continued investments in new technologies. new product introductions in 2006 for the orthopaedic implants segment included the lfit anatomic femoral heads with x3 polyethylene liners, which address range of motion and dislocation potential, and the avs as spacer, which is used for anterior lumbar interbody fusion. within the medsurg equipment segment, new product introductions in 2006 included the 1188 hd camera and related accessories, the next generation of stryker 3-chip hd cameras, the system 6 heavy duty power system and the stryker precision oscillating tip saw, which features a stationary blade shaft with an oscillating tip. selling, general and administrative expenses increased 11% in 2006 and represented 39.8% of sales compared with 39.9% in 2005. the slight decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales in 2006 is due to decreases in insurance costs and slower growth in discretionary spending, partially offset by higher sales-related costs, primarily compensation, loaner instrumentation amortization and sample expenses. the purchased in-process research and development charge of $52.7 million recorded in 2006 relates to the acquisition of sightline. the purchased in-process research and development charge of $15.9 million recorded in 2005 relates to the acquisition of plasmasol. at the date of the plasmasol acquisition, the sterilization technology acquired had not yet been approved for sale by the fda and, therefore, had not yet reached technological feasibility. the purchase price of $17.5 million was allocated to assets acquired, primarily for deferred income tax assets associated with acquired net operating losses, and purchased in-process research and development based on their fair value at the date of acquisition. the amounts written off as purchased in-process research and development were not deductible for income tax purposes in the united states. the company believes that the technologies acquired in both the sightline and plasmasol acquisitions will result in the introduction of new products and additional future sales. however, unanticipated issues may arise that could delay or terminate a product's development prior to regulatory approval or commercialization, which could have an unfavorable impact on the company's operating results. as previously described, as of december 31, 2007, the company must refine certain product specifications highlighted during customer preference trials and validate manufacturing processes in order to achieve its plan for initial commercialization of the flexible endoscope technologies in 2008. as of december 31, 2007, the company had not encountered significant issues and expects completion of the development and initial commercialization of the sterilization technologies in 2010. interest and marketable securities income, which is included in other income (expense), increased to $41.4 million in 2006 from $13.3 million in 2005, primarily as a result of increased cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities balances in 2006 compared to 2005. interest expense, which is included in other income (expense), increased to $9.5 million in 2006 from $7.7 million in 2005, primarily as a result of borrowings in europe to complete the repatriation of foreign earnings in 2005. the company's effective income tax rate on earnings from continuing operations for the year ended december 31, 2006 was 29.5% as compared to an effective income tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2005 of 32.5%. the effective income tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2006 reflects the impact of the nondeductibility for income tax purposes of the purchased in-process research and development charge associated with the acquisition of sightline. the effective income tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2005 reflects the impact of the nondeductibility for income tax purposes of the purchased in-process research and development charge associated with the acquisition of plasmasol as well as the additional $27.4 million of income taxes recorded as a result of the repatriation of foreign earnings. after considering these factors, the company's reported effective income tax rates for the years ended december 31, 2006 and 2005 are lower than the u.s. statutory income tax rate primarily as a result of manufacturing in lower income tax international jurisdictions. - 36 - - net earnings from continuing operations increased 22% in 2006 to $771.4 million from $632.5 million in 2005. basic net earnings per share from continuing operations increased 21% in 2006 to $1.90 from $1.57 in 2005, and diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations increased 21% in 2006 to $1.87 from $1.54 in 2005. excluding the impacts of the charges to write off purchased in-process research and development in 2006 and 2005 and to recognize the income tax expense associated with the repatriation of foreign earnings in 2005, adjusted net earnings from continuing operations increased 22% in 2006 to $824.1 million from $675.8 million in 2005. adjusted basic net earnings per share from continuing operations increased 22% in 2006 to $2.03 from $1.67 in 2005, and adjusted diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations increased 21% in 2006 to $2.00 from $1.65 in 2005. the reconciliations of these non-gaap financial measures are as follows (in millions except per share amounts): 2006 2005 percentage change reported net earnings from continuing operations $771.4 $632.5 22% purchased in-process research and development 52.7 15.9 231 income taxes on repatriation of foreign earnings -- 27.4 (100) adjusted net earnings from continuing operations $824.1 $675.8 22 basic net earnings per share of common stock: reported basic net earnings per share of common stock from continuing operations $1.90 $1.57 21 purchased in-process research and development $.13 $.04 225 income taxes on repatriation of foreign earnings -- $.07 (100) adjusted basic net earnings per share of common stock from continuing operations $2.03 $1.67 22 weighted-average basic shares outstanding 406.5 403.7 diluted net earnings per share of common stock: reported diluted net earnings per share of common stock from continuing operations $1.87 $1.54 21 purchased in-process research and development $.13 $.04 225 income taxes on repatriation of foreign earnings -- $.07 (100) adjusted diluted net earnings per share of common stock from continuing operations $2.00 $1.65 21 weighted-average diluted shares outstanding 411.8 410.8 the weighted-average basic and diluted shares outstanding used in the calculation of these non-gaap financial measures are the same as the weighted-average shares outstanding used in the calculation of the reported per share amounts. net earnings from discontinued operations for the year ended december 31, 2006 were $6.3 million, or $.02 per diluted share, compared to net earnings from discontinued operations of $11.1 million, or $.03 per diluted share, for the year ended december 31, 2005. net earnings increased 21% in 2006 to $777.7 million from $643.6 million in 2005. basic net earnings per share increased 20% in 2006 to $1.91 from $1.59 in 2005; and diluted net earnings per share increased 20% in 2006 to $1.89 from $1.57 in 2005. - 37 - liquidity and capital resources the company's working capital at december 31, 2007 increased $1,389.1 million to $3,571.9 million from $2,182.8 million at december 31, 2006. the increase in working capital resulted from growth in the company's overall business, the proceeds from the sale of physiotherapy associates and the use of cash earnings to fund increases in accounts receivable, inventories and prepaid expenses. accounts receivable days sales outstanding was 56 days at both december 31, 2007 and 2006 and days sales in inventory decreased one day to 137 days at december 31, 2007 from 138 days at december 31, 2006. the company generated cash of $1,028.3 million from operations in 2007 compared with $867.3 million in 2006. the increase in cash from operations in 2007 compared with the prior year is primarily due to increased earnings partially offset by growth in the working capital accounts, primarily accounts receivable and inventories. in 2007 the company borrowed an additional $103.7 million and used cash of $102.9 million for payments on borrowings. the company also used cash of $187.7 million for capital expenditures, including $14.3 million related to the implementation of erp systems at multiple manufacturing and distribution facilities; $13.9 million for facility expansions; and $7.0 million to complete the construction of the homer stryker center for education and clinical research in mahwah, new jersey. in addition, the company used $54.8 million for acquisitions and $89.7 million for the payment of dividends. the company also purchased and sold marketable securities, which are classified as available-for-sale investments in accordance with the provisions of fasb statement no. 115, accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities . the company had $290.5 million in cash and cash equivalents and $2,120.3 million in marketable securities at december 31, 2007. the company also had outstanding borrowings totaling $16.8 million at that date, all of which were classified as current obligations. the company believes its cash on hand and marketable securities, as well as anticipated cash flows from operations, will be sufficient to fund future operating capital requirements; future manufacturing facility construction and other capital expenditures; future business and product line acquisitions to supplement its current product offerings; loaner instrumentation for surgical implants in support of new product launches; required debt repayments and the payment of dividends. as of december 31, 2007, approximately 9% of the company's investments in available-for-sale securities were held in triple a rated (per standard &amp; poor's) asset-backed debt securities, of which the majority related to investments in automobile loans. at december 31, 2007, less than 1% of the company's investments in marketable securities were exposed to a risk of loss related to the declining value of the subprime-mortgage securities market. should additional funds be required, the company had $1,047.3 million of additional borrowing capacity available under all of its existing credit facilities, including the company's $1,000.0 million 5-year nonamortizing, revolving unsecured credit facility that expires in november 2010. in addition, the company had the entire $200.0 million accounts receivable securitization facility available at december 31, 2007. the company's future contractual obligations for agreements with initial terms greater than 1 year, including agreements to purchase materials in the normal course of business, are summarized as follows (in millions): payment period 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter long-term debt $ 16.8 $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- operating leases 42.0 34.3 22.2 10.3 6.7 11.7 unconditional purchase obligations 339.7 69.1 15.1 10.8 10.3 -- other 4.0 2.8 2.4 2.1 1.6 14.9 due to uncertainties regarding the ultimate resolution of income tax audits and timing of employee retirements, the company is not able to reasonably estimate the future periods in which income tax payments to settle these unresolved income tax positions or contributions to fund defined benefits plans will be made. - - 38 - the company's additional borrowing capacity, along with the expected expiration period of the commitments, is summarized as follows (in millions): amount of commitment total expiration per period amount less than in excess of committed 1 year 1 year unsecured credit facility and other lines of credit $1,047.3 $56.4 $990.9 critical accounting policies the preparation of the company's consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. management evaluates these estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. estimates are based on historical experience, when available, and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. management believes that of its significant accounting policies (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements), an understanding of the following critical accounting policies is important in obtaining an overall understanding of the consolidated financial statements. allowance for doubtful accounts the company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses in the collection of accounts receivable. the company makes estimates regarding the future ability of its customers to make required payments based on historical credit experience and expected future trends. if actual customer financial conditions are less favorable than projected by management, additional accounts receivable write offs may be necessary, which could unfavorably affect future operating results. inventory reserves the company maintains reserves for excess and obsolete inventory resulting from the potential inability to sell its products at prices in excess of current carrying costs. the markets in which the company operates are highly competitive and new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an ongoing basis. such marketplace changes may cause some of the company's products to become obsolete. the company makes estimates regarding the future recoverability of the costs of these products and records a provision for excess and obsolete inventories based on historical experience, expiration of sterilization dates and expected future trends. if actual product life cycles, product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less favorable than projected by management, additional inventory write downs may be required, which could unfavorably affect future operating results. income taxes the company operates in multiple income tax jurisdictions both inside and outside the united states. accordingly, management must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions. income tax audits associated with the allocation of this income and other complex issues, including inventory transfer pricing and product royalty arrangements, may require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in income tax adjustments if changes to the income allocation are required between jurisdictions with different income tax rates. because income tax adjustments in certain jurisdictions can be significant, the company records accruals representing management's best estimate of the probable resolution of these matters. - 39 - to the extent additional information becomes available, such accruals are adjusted to reflect the revised estimated probable outcome. other matters the company distributes its products throughout the world. as a result, the company's financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in foreign markets. the company's operating results are primarily exposed to changes in exchange rates among the u.s. dollar, the japanese yen and european currencies, in particular the euro and the british pound. when the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the dollar value of sales denominated in foreign currencies increases. when the u.s. dollar strengthens, the opposite situation occurs. the company manufactures its products in the united states, france, germany, ireland, switzerland, canada and puerto rico and incurs the costs to manufacture in the applicable local currencies. this worldwide deployment of factories serves to partially mitigate the impact of currency exchange rate changes on the company's cost of sales. the company enters into forward currency exchange contracts to mitigate the impact of currency fluctuations on transactions denominated in nonfunctional currencies, thereby limiting risk to the company that would otherwise result from changes in exchange rates. these nonfunctional currency exposures principally relate to intercompany receivables and payables arising from intercompany purchases of manufactured products. the periods of the forward currency exchange contracts correspond to the periods of the exposed transactions, with realized gains and losses included in the measurement and recording of transactions denominated in the nonfunctional currencies. all forward currency exchange contracts are marked to market each period, with resulting gains (losses) included in other income (expense) in the consolidated statements of earnings. at december 31, 2007, the company had outstanding forward currency exchange contracts to purchase $427.9 million and sell $257.7 million of various currencies (principally u.s. dollars and euros) with maturities ranging principally from 4 to 101 days. at december 31, 2006, the company had outstanding forward currency exchange contracts to purchase $387.9 million and sell $227.0 million of various currencies (principally u.s. dollars and euros) with maturities ranging principally from 7 to 180 days. the estimated fair value of forward currency exchange contracts represents the measurement of the contracts at month-end spot rates as adjusted by current forward points. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar would change the december 31, 2007 fair value by approximately $7.4 million. the company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on its outstanding forward currency exchange contracts but does not anticipate nonperformance by any of the counterparties. the company has certain investments in net assets in international locations that are not hedged. these investments are subject to translation gains and losses due to changes in foreign currencies. for the year ended december 31, 2007, the strengthening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar increased the value of these investments in net assets, and the related deferred gain in shareholders' equity, by $152.7 million to $272.3 million from $119.6 million at december 31, 2006. the company is partially self-insured for product liability claims and utilizes a wholly owned captive insurance company in the united states to manage its self-insured retention limits. the captive insurance company provides insurance reserves for estimated liabilities for product claims incurred but not reported based on actuarially determined liabilities. the actuarial valuations are based on historical information along with certain assumptions about future events. in 2003 the company announced that it received a subpoena from the u.s. attorney's office for the district of massachusetts in connection with a u.s. department of justice investigation of physiotherapy associates' billing and coding practices. under the terms of the physiotherapy sale agreement, stryker retained responsibility for certain cash damages to be paid in connection with this investigation. the company's liability for such damages was fixed under the sale agreement, with interest to be accrued through the date of payment, which occurred in 2007. liabilities previously recorded by the company were sufficient to cover these obligations. - 40 - - in 2007 the company disclosed that the u.s. securities and exchange commission has made an informal inquiry of the company regarding possible violations of the foreign corrupt practices act in connection with the sale of medical devices in certain foreign countries. subsequently, in 2008, the company received a subpoena from the u.s. department of justice, criminal division, requesting certain documents for the period january 1, 2000 through the present in connection with the u.s. securities and exchange commission inquiry. in 2006 the company announced that it received a subpoena from the u.s. department of justice, antitrust division, requesting documents for the period january 2001 through the present regarding possible violations of federal criminal law, including possible violation of the antitrust laws, relating to the manufacture and sale of orthopaedic implant devices. the company is fully cooperating with the u.s. department of justice and the u.s. securities and exchange commission regarding these matters. in 2007 the company received two warning letters from the fda regarding compliance with certain quality system specifications at its reconstructive implant manufacturing facilities: one letter for its facility in cork, ireland and another for its facility in mahwah, new jersey. the company takes these matters very seriously and has been fully cooperating with the fda to address their observations. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in the results of operations and other matters sections of the company's management's discussion and analysis of financial condition on pages 29 through 37 and 40 through 41, respectively. - 41 -risk factors. risk factors. the following information contains specific risks that could potentially impact the company's business, financial condition or operating results. the company may be subject to additional risks that are not currently known to the company or those which the company deems immaterial that may also impact its business operations. the company's inability to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals could have a negative impact on the company's future operating results. the company maintains close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. the company continues to place emphasis on the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand its existing product lines. if the company is unable to maintain these good relationships, its ability to market and sell new and improved products could decrease, and future operating results could be unfavorably affected. the company's inability to continue to hire and retain key employees could have a negative impact on the company's future operating results. the talent and drive of the company's employees are key factors in the success of its business. the company's sales, technical and other key personnel play an integral role in the development, marketing and selling of new and existing products. if the company is unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work force, it may not be able to meet its strategic business objectives. stricter pricing guidelines for the orthopaedic implants industry could have a negative impact on the company's future operating results. initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where the company does business. the company could experience a negative impact on its operating results due to increased pricing pressure in the united states, japan and certain other markets. governments, hospitals and other third party payers could reduce the amount of approved reimbursements for the company's orthopaedic implants products. reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage, or other cost-containment measures could unfavorably affect the company's future operating results. - 21 - the company's operating results could be negatively impacted by changes in its excess and obsolete inventory reserves. the company maintains reserves for excess and obsolete inventory resulting from the potential inability to sell its products at prices in excess of current carrying costs. the markets in which the company operates are highly competitive, and new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an ongoing basis. such marketplace changes may cause some of the company's products to become obsolete. the company makes estimates regarding the future recoverability of the costs of these products and records a provision for excess and obsolete inventories based on historical experience, expiration of sterilization dates and expected future trends. if actual product life cycles, product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less favorable than projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required, which could unfavorably affect future operating results. the company's operating results could be negatively impacted if it is unable to capitalize on research and development spending. the company has spent a significant amount of time and resources on research and development projects in order to develop and validate new and innovative products. the company believes these projects will result in the commercialization of new products and will create additional future sales. however, factors including regulatory delays, safety concerns or patent disputes could delay the introduction or marketing of new products. additionally, unanticipated issues may arise in connection with current and future clinical studies that could delay or terminate a product's development prior to regulatory approval. the company may experience an unfavorable impact on its operating results if it is unable to capitalize on those efforts by attaining the proper fda approval or to successfully market new products. the company's operating results could be negatively impacted by future changes in the allocation of income to each of the income tax jurisdictions in which the company operates. the company operates in multiple income tax jurisdictions both inside and outside the united states. accordingly, management must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions. income tax audits associated with the allocation of this income and other complex issues, including inventory transfer pricing and cost sharing and product royalty arrangements, may require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in income tax adjustments if changes to the income allocation are required between jurisdictions with different income tax rates. because income tax adjustments in certain jurisdictions can be significant, the company's future operating results could be negatively impacted by settlements of these matters. the company's operating results could be negatively impacted by future product liability claims, unfavorable court decisions, regulatory compliance or legal settlements. the company is a defendant in various proceedings, legal actions and claims arising in the normal course of business, including product liability and other matters. such matters are subject to many uncertainties, and outcomes are not predictable with assurance. to partially mitigate losses arising from unfavorable outcomes in such matters, the company purchases third-party insurance coverage subject to certain deductibles and loss limitations. while the company believes its current insurance coverage is adequate to mitigate losses arising from such matters, its future operating results may be unfavorably impacted by any settlement payments or losses beyond the amounts of insurance carried. likewise, the company may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether it is found to be liable. in addition, such product liability matters may negatively impact the company's ability to obtain cost-effective third-party insurance coverage in future periods. in 2008 the company and certain current and former employees received subpoenas from the u.s. department of justice office, criminal division, of the united states attorney in massachusetts requesting documents related to (i) false institutional review board approvals; (ii) the amount of sales of op-1 under one of the company's humanitarian device exemptions; and (iii) the off-label promotion of calstrux in combination with op-1. the company is in the process of responding to the u.s. department of justice regarding this matter. - 22 - - in 2008 the company received a warning letter from the fda related to quality systems and compliance issues at its op-1 implant manufacturing facility in hopkinton, massachusetts. in 2007 the company received two warning letters from the fda regarding compliance with certain quality system specifications at its reconstructive implant manufacturing facilities: one letter for its facility in cork, ireland and another for its facility in mahwah, new jersey. the company takes these matters very seriously and has been fully cooperating with the fda to address their observations. in 2007 the company announced that it reached a resolution with the u.s. attorney's office for the district of new jersey in connection with a previously announced investigation relating to &quot;any and all consulting contracts, professional service agreements, or remuneration agreements between stryker corporation and any orthopedic surgeon, orthopedic surgeon in training, or medical school graduate using or considering the surgical use of hip or knee joint replacement/reconstruction products manufactured or sold by stryker corporation.&quot; the resolution is in the form of a non-prosecution agreement for an 18-month period ending on march 27, 2009. during the term of the agreement, the company's orthopaedics subsidiary is subject to oversight by a federal monitor, as appointed by the u.s. attorney, regarding compliance with certain standards and procedures in connection with the retention and payment of orthopaedic surgeon consultants related to reconstructive products and the provision of certain benefits to such surgeons. subsequent to entering into the non-prosecution agreement, the u.s. department of health and human services, office of inspector general (hhs) issued a civil subpoena to the company in seeking to determine whether the company violated various laws by paying consulting fees and providing other things of value to orthopedic surgeons and healthcare and educational institutions as inducements to use stryker's orthopedic medical devices in procedures paid for in whole or in part by medicare. the company produced numerous documents and other materials to hhs in response to the subpoena and had been working with hhs to attempt to narrow the scope of the requested production. in 2008 the u.s. department of justice and the hhs sought judicial enforcement of the subpoena and a court agreed to enforce it in january 2009. at the same time, the u.s. district court for the district of new jersey dismissed the company's complaint which had asked the court to quash the subpoena and sought other appropriate relief on the grounds that the subpoena was overbroad and oppressive. in 2007 the company disclosed that the u.s. securities and exchange commission made an informal inquiry of the company regarding possible violations of the foreign corrupt practices act in connection with the sale of medical devices in certain foreign countries. subsequently, in 2008, the company received a subpoena from the u.s. department of justice, criminal division, requesting certain documents for the period since january 1, 2000 in connection with the u.s. securities and exchange commission inquiry. the company is fully cooperating with the u.s. department of justice and the u.s. securities and exchange commission regarding these matters. as a result of these investigations, the company's future operating results could be negatively impacted by the resolution of these matters. the company's operating results could be negatively impacted by economic, political or other developments in countries in which the company does business. the company distributes its products throughout the world. as a result, the company's future operating results could be negatively impacted by unstable economic, political and social conditions, including but not limited to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, political instability, or changes in the interpretation or creation of laws and regulations in each of the countries where the company conducts business, including the united states. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors 3 risk factors. this report contains statements referring to us that are not historical facts and are considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements, which are intended to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the reform act, are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as may, could, will, should, possible, plan, predict, forecast, potential, anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, believe, may impact, on track, and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, a merger, or our businesses. in addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or 3 dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. some important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations in any forward-looking statements include those risks discussed below. our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations, we may be unable to effectively develop and market products against those of our competitors in a highly competitive industry. our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors. competitive factors include price, customer service, technology, innovation, quality, reputation and reliability. our competition may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us or may be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. given these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue our level of success in the industry. competition in research, involving development and the improvement of new and existing products, is particularly significant and results from time to time in product obsolescence. the markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an ongoing basis. such marketplace changes may cause some of our products to become obsolete. if actual product life cycles, product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less favorable than projected by management, a higher level of inventory write-downs may result. dependence on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to such rights may result in our payment of significant monetary damages or impact offerings in our product portfolios. our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. if we fail to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies or may lose access to technologies critical to our products. also, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, and issued patents are subject to claims concerning priority, scope and other issues. intellectual property litigation and infringement claims could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling certain of our products. the medical device industry is characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation and, from time to time, we are the subject of claims by third parties of potential infringement or misappropriation. regardless of outcome, such claims are expensive to defend and divert the time and effort of our management and operating personnel from other business issues. a successful claim or claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments or negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products in the affected category and could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products. substantially all of our products are subject to regulation by the fda and other governmental authorities both inside and outside of the united states. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to a range of sanctions including warning letters, monetary fines, product recalls and the suspension of product manufacturing, and criminal prosecution. healthcare changes in the united states and other countries resulting in pricing pressures could have a negative impact on our future operating results. initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where we do business. pricing pressure has also increased in our markets due to continued consolidation among health care providers, trends toward managed care, the shift towards governments becoming the primary payers of health care expenses, and government laws and regulations relating to reimbursement and pricing generally. reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage or other cost-containment measures could unfavorably affect our future operating results. the impact of united states healthcare reform legislation on us remains uncertain. in 2010 federal legislation to reform the united states healthcare system was enacted into law. the legislation is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage, improve quality and reduce costs over time. we expect the new law will have a significant impact upon various aspects of our business operations. however, it is unclear how the new law will impact patient access to new technologies or reimbursement rates under the medicare program. in addition, the new law imposes a 2.3 percent excise tax on medical devices scheduled to be implemented in 2013 that will apply to united states sales of a majority of our medical device products. many of the details of the new law will be included in new and revised regulations, which have not yet been promulgated, and require additional guidance and specificity to be provided by the department of health and human services, department of labor and department of the treasury. accordingly, while it is too early to understand and predict the ultimate impact of the new law on our business, the 4 legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. we may be adversely affected by product liability claims, unfavorable court decisions or legal settlements. we are defendants in various proceedings, legal actions and claims arising in the normal course of business, including product liability and other matters. these matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable. in addition, we may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether we are found to be liable. to partially mitigate losses arising from unfavorable outcomes in such matters, we purchase third-party insurance coverage subject to certain retentions, deductibles and loss limitations. while we believe our current insurance coverage is adequate to mitigate losses arising from such matters, we may be adversely impacted by any settlement payments or losses beyond the amounts of insurance carried or for which coverage is otherwise not available. in addition, even if covered by insurance, such losses may negatively impact our ability to obtain third-party insurance coverage in future periods on a cost-effective basis or at all. we may be unable to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals. we seek to maintain close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. we rely on these professionals to assist us in the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand our existing product lines. if we are unable to maintain these relationships, our ability to develop, market and sell new and improved products could decrease and future operating results could be unfavorably affected. we are subject to additional risks associated with our extensive international operations. we develop, manufacture and distribute our products throughout the world. our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of additional risks and potential costs, including changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs, unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements, differing local product preferences and product requirements, diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the united states, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, extraterritorial effects of united states laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations, and political and economic instability. exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on cross border transactions and translation of local currency results into united states dollars could have a significant impact on the reported results of our operations, which are presented in united states dollars . cross border transactions, both with external parties and intercompany relationships, result in increased exposure to foreign exchange effects. accordingly, significant changes in currency exchange rates could negatively affect our results of operations. in addition, our sales are translated into united states dollars for reporting purposes. the strengthening or weakening of the united states dollar could result in favorable or unfavorable translation effects as the results of foreign locations are translated into united states dollars. our operating results could be negatively impacted by future changes in the allocation of income to each of the income tax jurisdictions in which we operate. we operate in multiple income tax jurisdictions both inside and outside the united states. accordingly, our management must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. income tax authorities in these jurisdictions regularly perform audits of our income tax filings. income tax audits associated with the allocation of this income and other complex issues, including inventory transfer pricing and cost sharing, product royalty and foreign branch arrangements, may require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in significant income tax adjustments. if changes to the income allocation are required between jurisdictions with different income tax rates, such adjustments could have a material unfavorable impact on our income tax expense and net earnings. we may be unable to capitalize on previous or future acquisitions. in addition to internally developed products, we rely upon investment in new technologies through acquisitions. investments in medical technology are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any acquisition will be successful or will not have a material unfavorable impact on us. these risks include the activities required by us to integrate new businesses, which may result in the need to allocate more resources to integration and product development activities than originally anticipated, diversion of management's time, which could adversely affect management's ability to focus on other projects, the inability to realize the expected benefits, savings or synergies from the acquisition, the loss of key personnel of the acquired company, and exposure to unexpected liabilities of the acquired company. in addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so, which may result in unexpected impairment charges. failure of a key information technology system, process or site could have a material adverse impact on our business. we rely extensively on information technology systems to conduct business. these systems include, but are not limited to, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping products to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, providing data security and other processes necessary to manage our business. if our systems are damaged or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events to power outages to security breaches, and our business continuity plans do not effectively compensate on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage operations, which may adversely impact our business, cash flows, financial conditions or results of operations. we may be unable to attract and retain key employees . our sales, technical and other key personnel play an integral role in the 5 development, marketing and selling of new and existing products. if we are unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work force, we may not be able to meet our strategic business objectives. macroeconomic developments, such as the recent recessions in europe and the debt crisis in certain countries in the european union, could negatively affect our ability to conduct business in those geographies. the continuing debt crisis in certain european countries could cause the value of the euro to deteriorate, reducing the purchasing power of our european customers. financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers and customers, including distributors, could result in product delays and inventory issues; risks to accounts receivable could also include delays in collection and greater bad debt expense. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 18 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in the "results of operations, financial condition and liquidity" and "other information" sections of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition in item 7 of this report. 18 dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.risk factors 5 risk factors. this report contains statements referring to us that are not historical facts and are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements, which are intended to take advantage of the "safe harbor" provisions of the reform act, are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as "may," "could," "will," "should," "possible," "plan," "predict," "forecast," "potential," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "believe," "may impact," "on track," and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, an acquisition or our businesses. in addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. some important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations in any forward-looking statements include those risks discussed below. our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. legal &amp; regulatory risks the impact of united states healthcare reform legislation on us remains uncertain. in 2010 federal legislation to reform the united states healthcare system was enacted into law. the law was upheld by a supreme court decision that was announced on june 28, 2012. the legislation is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage, improve quality and reduce costs over time. we expect the new law will have a significant impact upon various aspects of our business operations. among other things, the new law imposes a 2.3 percent excise tax on class i, ii and iii medical devices beginning january 2013 that will apply to united states sales of a majority of our medical device products. other provisions of this legislation, including medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs, comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies, could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered. further, we cannot predict what other healthcare programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented at the federal or state level, the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the united states or internationally or whether any changes will lower reimbursements for our products or reduce medical procedure volumes. cost containment measures in the united states and other countries resulting in pricing pressures could have a negative impact on our future operating results. initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where we do business. pricing pressure has also increased in our markets due to continued consolidation among healthcare providers, trends toward managed care, the shift towards governments becoming the primary payers of healthcare expenses, and government laws and regulations relating to reimbursement and pricing generally. reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage or other cost containment measures could unfavorably affect our future operating results. we may be adversely affected by product liability claims, unfavorable court decisions or legal settlements. we are defendants in various proceedings, legal actions and claims arising in the normal course of business, including product liability and other matters. these matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable. in addition, we may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether we are found to be liable. to partially mitigate losses arising from unfavorable outcomes in such matters, we purchase third-party insurance coverage subject to certain retentions, deductibles and loss limitations. we may be adversely impacted by any settlement payments or losses beyond the amounts of insurance carried or for which coverage is otherwise not available. in addition, even if covered by insurance, such losses may negatively impact our ability to obtain third-party insurance coverage in future periods on a cost effective basis or at all. intellectual property litigation and infringement claims could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling certain of our products. the medical device industry is characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation and, from time to time, we are the subject of claims by third parties of potential infringement or misappropriation. regardless of outcome, such claims are expensive to defend and divert the time and effort of our management and operating personnel from other business issues. a successful claim or claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments or negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products in the affected category. 5 dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified dependence on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to such rights may impact offerings in our product portfolios. our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. if we fail to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies or may lose access to technologies critical to our products. also, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, and issued patents are subject to claims concerning priority, scope and other issues. we are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products. substantially all of our products are subject to regulation by the fda and other governmental authorities in the united states and internationally. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products timely, if at all. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to a range of sanctions including warning letters, monetary fines, product recalls and the suspension of product manufacturing and criminal prosecution. market risks macroeconomic developments, such as the recent recessions in europe and the debt crises in certain countries in the european union, could negatively affect our ability to conduct business in those geographies. the continuing debt crises in certain european union countries could cause the value of the euro to deteriorate, reducing the purchasing power of our european union customers. financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers and customers, including distributors, could result in product delays and inventory issues; risks to accounts receivable could also include delays in collection and greater bad debt expense. exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on cross border transactions and translation of local currency results into united states dollars. cross border transactions, both with external parties and intercompany relationships, result in increased exposure to foreign exchange effects. in addition, our sales are translated into united states dollars for reporting purposes. the strengthening or weakening of the united states dollar could result in favorable or unfavorable translation effects as the results of foreign locations are translated into united states dollars. business and operational risks we may be unable to effectively develop and market products against the products of our competitors in a highly competitive industry. our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by our competitors. competitive factors include price, customer service, technology, innovation, quality, reputation and reliability. our competition may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us or may be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. given these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue our level of success in the industry. competition in research, involving the development and improvement of new and existing products, is particularly significant and results from time to time in product obsolescence. the markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an ongoing basis. such marketplace changes may cause some of our products to become obsolete. if actual product life cycles, product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less favorable than projected by management, a higher level of inventory write downs may result. we may be unable to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals. we seek to maintain close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. we rely on these professionals to assist us in the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand our existing product lines. if we are unable to maintain these relationships, our ability to develop, market and sell new and improved products could decrease. we are subject to additional risks associated with our extensive international operations. we develop, manufacture and distribute our products throughout the world. our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of additional risks and potential costs, including changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs, unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements, differing local product preferences and product requirements, diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the united states, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, extraterritorial effects of united states laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations and political and economic instability. 6 dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified we may be unable to capitalize on previous or future acquisitions. in addition to internally developed products, we rely upon investment in new technologies through acquisitions. investments in medical technology are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any acquisition will be successful or will not have a material unfavorable impact on us. these risks include the activities required by us to integrate new businesses, which may result in the need to allocate more resources to integration and product development activities than originally anticipated, diversion of management's time, which could adversely affect management's ability to focus on other projects, the inability to realize the expected benefits, savings or synergies from the acquisition, the loss of key personnel of the acquired company, and exposure to unexpected liabilities of the acquired company. in addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so, which may result in unexpected impairment charges. we may record future goodwill impairment charges related to one or more of our business units, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations. we perform our annual impairment test for goodwill in the fourth quarter of each year, or more frequently if indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist. in evaluating the potential for impairment we make assumptions regarding revenue projections, growth rates, cash flows, tax rates, and discount rates. these assumptions are uncertain and by nature may vary from actual results. a significant reduction in the estimated fair values could result in impairment charges that could materially affect our results of operations. our results of operations could be negatively impacted by future changes in the allocation of income to each of the income tax jurisdictions in which we operate. we operate in multiple income tax jurisdictions both in the united states and internationally. accordingly, our management must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each jurisdiction based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. income tax authorities regularly perform audits of our income tax filings. income tax audits associated with the allocation of income and other complex issues, including inventory transfer pricing and cost sharing, product royalty and foreign branch arrangements, may require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in significant income tax adjustments. if changes to the income allocation are required between jurisdictions with different income tax rates, the related adjustments could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations. failure of a key information technology system, process or site could have a material adverse impact on our business. we rely extensively on information technology systems to conduct business. these systems include, but are not limited to, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping products to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, providing data security and other processes necessary to manage our business. if our systems are damaged or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events to power outages to security breaches, and our business continuity plans do not effectively compensate timely, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage operations. we may be unable to attract and retain key employees . our sales, technical and other key personnel play an integral role in the development, marketing and selling of new and existing products. if we are unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work force, we may not be able to meet our strategic business objectives. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 20 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we consider our material area of market risk exposure to be exchange rate risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about exchange rate risk are included in the "other information" section of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition in item 7, under the caption "hedging and derivative financial instruments" on page 19. 20 dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specifiedrisk factors 4 risk factors. this report contains statements referring to us that are not historical facts and are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements, which are intended to take advantage of the "safe harbor" provisions of the reform act, are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as "may," "could," "will," "should," "possible," "plan," "predict," "forecast," "potential," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "believe," "may impact," "on track," and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, an acquisition or our businesses. in addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. some important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations in any forward-looking statements include the risks discussed below. our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. legal and regulatory risks the impact of united states healthcare reform legislation on our business remains uncertain. in 2010 federal legislation to reform the united states healthcare system was enacted into law. the legislation is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage, improve the quality and reduce the costs of healthcare over time. its provisions become effective at various dates and there are many programs and requirements for which the details have not been determined. we expect the law will have a significant impact upon various aspects of our business operations. among other things, the law imposes a 2.3 percent excise tax on class i, ii and iii medical devices that applies to united states sales of a majority of our medical device products. other provisions of this legislation, including medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs, comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies, could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered. further, we cannot predict what other healthcare programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented at the federal or state level or the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the united states. however, any change that lowers reimbursements for our products or reduces medical procedure volumes could adversely affect our business and results of operations. cost containment measures in the united states and other countries resulting in pricing pressures could have a negative impact on our future operating results. initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where we do business. pricing pressure has also increased in our markets due to continued consolidation among healthcare providers, trends toward managed care, the shift towards governments becoming the primary payers of healthcare expenses, and government laws and regulations 4 dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified relating to sales and promotion, reimbursement and pricing generally. reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage or other cost containment measures could unfavorably affect our future operating results. we may be adversely affected by product liability claims, unfavorable court decisions or legal settlements. our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, many of which are intended to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. we are currently defendants in a number of product liability matters, including those relating to the voluntary recall in 2012 of our rejuvenate and abgii modular neck hip stems discussed in "other information-legal and regulatory matters" in item 7 of this report and note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this report. these matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable. in addition, we may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether we are found to be liable. the company is currently self-insured for product liability-related claims and expenses. the ultimate cost to us with respect to pro duct liability claims could be materially different than the amount of the current estimates and accruals and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. intellectual property litigation and infringement claims could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling certain of our products. the medical device industry is characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation and, from time to time, we are the subject of claims by third parties of potential infringement or misappropriation. regardless of outcome, such claims are expensive to defend and divert the time and effort of management and operating personnel from other business issues. a successful claim or claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments or negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products in the affected category. dependence on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to such rights may impact offerings in our product portfolios. our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. if we fail to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property protection, such a failure could allow others to sell products that compete with offerings in our product portfolio. also, our issued patents are subject to claims concerning priority, scope and other issues, and currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents. we are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products. substantially all of our products are subject to regulation by the fda and other governmental authorities in the united states and internationally. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. we have ongoing responsibilities under fda regulations with respect to our products and facilities and are subject to periodic inspections by the fda to determine compliance with the quality system and medical device reporting regulations and other requirements. if we fail to fully comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to a range of sanctions, including warning letters, product recalls, the suspension of product manufacturing, monetary fines and criminal prosecution. we are subject to federal, state and foreign healthcare regulations, including fraud and abuse laws, as well as anti-bribery laws, and could face substantial penalties if we fail to fully comply with such regulations and laws. our relationship with healthcare professionals, such as physicians, hospitals and those that may market our products, are subject to scrutiny under various state and federal laws often referred to collectively as healthcare fraud and abuse laws. in addition, the united states and foreign government regulators have increased the enforcement of the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-bribery laws. these laws are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretation, which could require us to incur substantial costs to monitor compliance or to alter our practices if we are found not to be in compliance. we also must comply with a variety of other laws which protect the privacy of individually identifiable healthcare information and impose extensive tracking and reporting related to all transfers of value provided to certain healthcare professionals. violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs. market risks macroeconomic developments, such as the recent recessions in europe and the debt crises in certain countries in the european union, could negatively affect our ability to conduct business in those geographies. the continuing debt crises in certain european union countries could cause the value of the euro to deteriorate, reducing the purchasing power of our european union customers. financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers and customers, including distributors, could result in product delays and inventory issues; risks to accounts receivable could also include delays in collection and greater bad debt expense. exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on cross border transactions and translation of local currency results into united states dollars. cross border transactions, both with external parties and intercompany relationships, result in increased exposure to foreign exchange effects. in addition, our sales are translated into united states dollars for reporting purposes. the strengthening or weakening of the united states dollar results in favorable or unfavorable translation effects as the results of our foreign locations are translated into united states dollars. business and operational risks we may be unable to effectively develop and market products against the products of our competitors in a highly competitive industry. our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by our competitors. competitive factors include price, customer service, 5 dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified technology, innovation, quality, reputation and reliability. our competition may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. given these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue our level of success in the industry. competition in research, involving the development and improvement of new and existing products, is particularly significant and results from time to time in product obsolescence. the markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an ongoing basis. such marketplace changes may cause some of our products to become obsolete. if actual product life cycles, product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less favorable than projected by management, a higher level of inventory write downs may result. we may be unable to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals. we seek to maintain close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. we rely on these professionals to assist us in the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand our existing product lines. if we are unable to maintain these relationships, our ability to develop, market and sell new and improved products could decrease. we are subject to additional risks associated with our extensive international operations. we develop, manufacture and distribute our products throughout the world. our international operations are subject to a number of additional risks and potential costs, including changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs, unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements, differing local product preferences and product requirements, diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations, political and economic instability. our results of operations and/or financial condition could be adversely impacted if we are unable to successfully manage these and other risks of international operations in an increasingly volatile environment. we may be unable to capitalize on previous or future acquisitions. in addition to internally developed products, we rely upon investment in new technologies through acquisitions. investments in medical technology are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any acquisition will be successful or will not have a material unfavorable impact on us. these risks include the activities required by us to integrate new businesses, which may result in the need to allocate more resources to integration and product development activities than originally anticipated, diversion of management's time, which could adversely affect management's ability to focus on other projects, the inability to realize the expected benefits, savings or synergies from the acquisition, the loss of key personnel of the acquired company, and exposure to unexpected liabilities of the acquired company. in addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so, which may result in unexpected impairment charges. we may record future goodwill impairment charges related to one or more of our business units, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations. we perform our annual impairment test for goodwill in the fourth quarter of each year, or more frequently if indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist. in evaluating the potential for impairment we make assumptions regarding revenue projections, growth rates, cash flows, tax rates, and discount rates. these assumptions are uncertain and by nature may vary from actual results. a significant reduction in the estimated fair values could result in impairment charges that could materially affect our results of operations. our results of operations could be negatively impacted by future changes in the allocation of income to each of the income tax jurisdictions in which we operate. we operate in multiple income tax jurisdictions both in the united states and internationally. accordingly, our management must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each jurisdiction based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. income tax authorities regularly perform audits of our income tax filings. income tax audits associated with the allocation of income and other complex issues, including inventory transfer pricing and cost sharing, product royalty and foreign branch arrangements, may require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in significant income tax adjustments. if changes to the income allocation are required between jurisdictions with different income tax rates, the related adjustments could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations. failure of a key information technology system, process or site could have a material adverse impact on our business. we rely extensively on information technology systems to conduct business. these systems include, but are not limited to, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping products to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, providing data security and other processes necessary to manage our business. if our systems are damaged or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events to power outages to security breaches, and our business continuity plans do not effectively compensate on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our operations. we may be unable to attract and retain key employees. our sales, technical and other key personnel play an integral role in the development, marketing and selling of new and existing products. if we are unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work force, we may not be able to meet our strategic business objectives. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 18 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we consider our material area of market risk exposure to be exchange rate risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about exchange rate risk are included in the "other information" section of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition in item 7, under the caption other information - "hedging and derivative financial instruments". 18 dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specifiedrisk factors 4 risk factors. this report contains statements referring to us that are not historical facts and are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements, which are intended to take advantage of the "safe harbor" provisions of the reform act, are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as "may," "could," "will," "should," "possible," "plan," "predict," "forecast," "potential," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "believe," "may impact," "on track," and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, an acquisition or our businesses. in addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. some important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations in any forward-looking statements include the risks discussed below. our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. legal and regulatory risks the impact of united states healthcare reform legislation on our business remains uncertain. in 2010 federal legislation to reform the united states healthcare system was enacted into law. the legislation is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage and improve the quality and reduce the costs of healthcare over time. its provisions become effective at various dates and there are many programs and requirements for which the details have not been determined. we expect the law will have a significant impact upon various aspects of our business operations. among other things, the law imposed a 2.3 percent excise tax on class i, ii and iii medical devices that applies to united states sales of a majority of our medical device products. other provisions of this legislation, including medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs, comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies, could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered. further, we cannot predict what other healthcare programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented at the federal or state level or the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the united states on our business and results of operations we may be adversely affected by product liability claims, unfavorable court decisions or legal settlements. our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, many of which are intended to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. we are currently defendants in a number of product liability matters, including those relating to our rejuvenate and abgii modular-neck hip stems discussed in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this report. these matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable. in addition, we may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether we are found to be liable. we are currently self-insured for product liability-related claims and expenses. the ultimate cost to us with respect to product liability claims could be materially different than the amount of the current estimates and accruals and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. intellectual property litigation and infringement claims could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling certain of our products. the medical device industry is characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation and, from time to time, we are the subject of claims by third parties of potential infringement or misappropriation. regardless of outcome, such claims are expensive to defend and divert the time and effort of management and operating personnel from other business issues. a successful claim or claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments or negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products in the affected category. dependence on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to such rights may impact offerings in our product portfolios. our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. if we fail to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property protection, such a failure could allow others to sell products that compete with offerings in our product portfolio. also, our issued patents are subject to claims concerning priority, scope and other issues, and currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents. we are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products. substantially all of our products are subject to regulation by the fda and other governmental authorities in the united states and internationally. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. we have ongoing responsibilities under fda regulations with respect to our products and facilities and are subject to periodic inspections by the fda to determine compliance with the quality system and medical device reporting regulations and other requirements. if we fail to fully comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to a range of sanctions, including 4 dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. stryker corporation 2014 form 10-k warning letters, product recalls, the suspension of product manufacturing, monetary fines and criminal prosecution. we are subject to federal, state and foreign healthcare regulations, including fraud and abuse laws, as well as anti-bribery laws, and could face substantial penalties if we fail to fully comply with such regulations and laws. our relationship with healthcare professionals, such as physicians, hospitals and those that may market our products, are subject to scrutiny under various state and federal laws often referred to collectively as healthcare fraud and abuse laws. in addition, the united states and foreign government regulators have increased the enforcement of the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-bribery laws. these laws are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretation, which could require us to incur substantial costs to monitor compliance or to alter our practices if we are found not to be in compliance. we also must comply with a variety of other laws which protect the privacy of individually identifiable healthcare information and impose extensive tracking and reporting related to all transfers of value provided to certain healthcare professionals. violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs. market risks macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our ability to conduct business in affected regions. financial difficulties experienced by our customers, including distributors, and suppliers could result in product delays and inventory issues; risks to accounts receivable could also include delays in collection and greater bad debt expense. exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on cross border transactions and translation of local currency results into united states dollars. we report our financial results in united states dollars and approximately one-third of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, including the euro, the british pound, and the japanese yen. cross border transactions, both with external parties and intercompany relationships, result in increased exposure to foreign exchange effects. our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, have been and may in the future be adversely affected by movements in foreign exchange rates. while we implement currency hedges to partially reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates; our hedging strategies may not be successful, and our unhedged exposures continue to be subject to currency fluctuations. in addition, the weakening or strengthening of the united states dollar results in favorable or unfavorable translation effects when the results of our foreign locations are translated into united states dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements and results. business and operational risks cost containment measures in the united states and other countries resulting in pricing pressures could have a negative impact on our future operating results. initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where we do business. pricing pressure has also increased in our markets due to continued consolidation among healthcare providers, trends toward managed care, the shift towards governments becoming the primary payers of healthcare expenses, and government laws and regulations relating to sales and promotion, reimbursement and pricing generally. reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage for our products or other cost containment measures, including any that reduce medical procedure volumes, could unfavorably affect our future operating results. we may be unable to effectively develop and market products against the products of our competitors in a highly competitive industry. our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by our competitors. competitive factors include price, customer service, technology, innovation, quality, reputation and reliability. our competition may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, have greater financial, marketing and other resources or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. given these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue our level of success in the industry. competition in the development and improvement of new and existing products is particularly significant and results from time to time in product obsolescence. the markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an ongoing basis. such marketplace changes may cause some of our products to become obsolete. if actual product life cycles, product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less favorable than projected by management, a higher level of inventory write downs may result. we may be unable to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals. we seek to maintain close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. we rely on these professionals to assist us in the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand our existing product lines. if we are unable to maintain these relationships, our ability to develop, market and sell new and improved products could decrease. we are subject to additional risks associated with our extensive international operations. we develop, manufacture and distribute our products throughout the world. our international operations are subject to a number of additional risks and potential costs, including changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs, unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements, differing local product preferences and product requirements, diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations, political and economic instability. our results of operations and/or financial condition could be adversely impacted if we are unable to successfully manage these and other risks of international operations in an increasingly volatile environment. we may be unable to capitalize on previous or future acquisitions. in addition to internally developed products, we rely upon investment in new technologies through acquisitions. investments in medical technology are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any acquisition will be successful or will not have a material unfavorable impact on us. these risks include the activities required to integrate new businesses, which may result in the need to allocate more resources to integration and product development activities than originally anticipated, diversion of management time, which could adversely affect management's ability to focus on other projects, the inability to realize the expected benefits, savings or synergies from the acquisition, the loss of key personnel of the acquired company, and exposure to unexpected liabilities of the acquired company. in addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so, which may result in unexpected impairment charges. 5 dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. stryker corporation 2014 form 10-k we may record future goodwill impairment charges related to one or more of our business units, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations. we perform our annual impairment test for goodwill in the fourth quarter of each year, or more frequently if indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist. in evaluating the potential for impairment we make assumptions regarding revenue projections, growth rates, cash flows, tax rates, and discount rates. these assumptions are uncertain and by nature may vary from actual results. a significant reduction in the estimated fair values could result in impairment charges that could materially affect our results of operations. our results of operations could be negatively impacted by future changes in the allocation of income to each of the income tax jurisdictions in which we operate. we operate in multiple income tax jurisdictions both in the united states and internationally. accordingly, our management must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each jurisdiction based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. income tax authorities regularly perform audits of our income tax filings. income tax audits associated with the allocation of income and other complex issues, including inventory transfer pricing and cost sharing, product royalty and foreign branch arrangements, may require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in significant income tax adjustments. if changes to the income allocation are required between jurisdictions with different income tax rates, the related adjustments could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations. failure of a key information technology system, process or site could have a material adverse impact on our business. we rely extensively on information technology systems to conduct business. these systems include, but are not limited to, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping products to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, providing data security and other processes necessary to manage our business. if our systems are damaged or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events to power outages to security breaches, and our business continuity plans do not effectively compensate on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our operations. a breach of information security, including a cybersecurity breach or failure of one or more key information technology systems, networks, processes, associated sites or service providers could have a material adverse impact on our business or reputation. we rely extensively on information technology (it) systems, networks and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities and tools and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third-parties or their vendors, to assist in conducting our business. numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats, including advanced persistent threats, pose a potential risk to the security of our it systems, networks and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability, integrity of our data and our responsibilities to governments. we have made investments seeking to address these threats, including monitoring of networks and systems, hiring of experts, employee training and security policies for employees and third-party providers. however, because the techniques used in these attacks change frequently and may be difficult to detect for periods of time, we may face difficulties in anticipating and implementing adequate preventative measures. if the it systems, networks or service providers we rely upon fail to function properly, or if we or one of our third-party providers suffer a loss or disclosure of our business or stakeholder information, due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events or power outages to improper data handling or security breaches, and our business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, we may be exposed to reputational, competitive and business harm as well as litigation and regulatory action. the costs and operational consequences of responding to breaches and implementing remediation measures could be significant. we may be unable to attract and retain key employees. our sales, technical and other key personnel play an integral role in the development, marketing and selling of new and existing products. if we are unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work force, we may not be able to meet our strategic business objectives. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we consider our material area of market risk exposure to be exchange rate risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about exchange rate risk are included in the "other information" section of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition in item 7, under the caption "other information - hedging and derivative financial instruments." 16 dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. stryker corporation 2014 form 10-krisk factors 3 risk factors. this report contains statements referring to us that are not historical facts and are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements, which are intended to take advantage of the "safe harbor" provisions of the reform act, are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as "may," "could," "will," "should," "possible," "plan," "predict," "forecast," "potential," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "believe," "may impact," "on track," and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, an acquisition or our businesses. in addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. some important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations in any forward-looking statements include the risks discussed below. our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and 3 dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. stryker corporation 2015 form 10-k uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. legal and regulatory risks the impact of united states healthcare reform legislation on our business remains uncertain: in 2010 federal legislation to reform the united states healthcare system was enacted into law. the legislation is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage and improve the quality and reduce the costs of healthcare over time. we expect the law will have a significant impact upon various aspects of our business operations. among other things, the law imposed a 2.3 percent excise tax on medical devices that applies only to united states sales, which are a majority of our medical device products sales; however, in 2015 congress enacted legislation that suspends the excise tax for 2016 and 2017. other provisions of this legislation, including medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs, comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies, could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered. further, we cannot predict what other healthcare programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented at the federal or state level or the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the united states on our business and results of operations. we may be adversely affected by product liability claims, unfavorable court decisions or legal settlements: we are exposed to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, many of which are intended to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. we are currently defendants in a number of product liability matters, including those relating to our rejuvenate and abgii modular-neck hip stems discussed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this report. these matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable. in addition, we may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether we are found to be liable. we are self-insured for product liability-related claims and expenses. the ultimate cost to us with respect to product liability claims could be materially different than the amount of the current estimates and accruals and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. intellectual property litigation and infringement claims could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling certain of our products: the medical device industry is characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation and, from time to time, we are the subject of claims of potential infringement or misappropriation. regardless of outcome, such claims are expensive to defend and divert the time and effort of management and operating personnel from other business issues. a successful claim or claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could result in payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments or negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products in the affected category. dependence on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to such rights may impact offerings in our product portfolios: our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. if we fail to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property protection, it could allow others to sell products that directly compete with proprietary features in our product portfolio. also, our issued patents are subject to claims concerning priority, scope and other issues, and currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents. we are subject to extensive governmental regulation relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products: substantially all of our products are subject to regulation by the fda and other governmental authorities in the united states and internationally. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted timely for future products, if at all. we have ongoing responsibilities under fda regulations with respect to our products and facilities and are subject to periodic inspections by the fda and others to determine compliance with the quality system and medical device reporting regulations and other requirements. if we fail to fully comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to a range of sanctions, including warning letters, product recalls, the suspension of product manufacturing, monetary fines and criminal prosecution. we are subject to federal, state and foreign healthcare regulations, including fraud and abuse laws, as well as anti-bribery laws, and could face substantial penalties if we fail to fully comply with such regulations and laws: our relationships with healthcare professionals, such as physicians, hospitals and those that may market our products, are subject to scrutiny under various state and federal laws often referred to collectively as healthcare fraud and abuse laws. in addition, the united states and foreign government regulators have increased the enforcement of the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-bribery laws. these laws are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretation, which could require us to incur substantial costs to monitor compliance or to alter our practices if we are found not to be in compliance. we also must comply with a variety of other laws that protect the privacy of individually identifiable healthcare information and impose extensive tracking and reporting related to all transfers of value provided to certain healthcare professionals. violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs. market risks macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our ability to conduct business in affected regions: financial difficulties experienced by our customers, distributors, and suppliers could result in product delays and inventory issues; risks to accounts receivable could also include delays in collection and greater bad debt expense. exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on cross border transactions and translation of local currency results into united states dollars: we report our financial results in united states dollars and approximately 30% of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, including the euro, the british pound, and the japanese yen. cross border transactions with external parties and intercompany relationships result in increased exposure to foreign currency exchange effects. our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, have been and may in the future be adversely affected by movements in foreign currency exchange rates. while we implement currency hedges to partially reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates; our hedging strategies may not be successful, and our unhedged exposures continue to be subject to currency fluctuations. in addition, the weakening or strengthening of the united states dollar results in favorable or unfavorable translation effects when the results of our foreign locations are translated into united states dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements and results. 4 dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. stryker corporation 2015 form 10-k additional capital that we may require in the future may not be available to us, or only available to us on unfavorable terms: our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including operating requirements, current and future acquisitions and the need to refinance existing debt. our ability to issue additional debt or enter into other financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be adversely affected by our debt levels, unfavorable changes in economic conditions generally or uncertainties that affect the capital markets. changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized credit rating agencies could also adversely affect our access to and cost of financing. higher borrowing costs or the inability to access capital markets could adversely affect our ability to support future growth and operating requirements and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. business and operational risks cost containment measures in the united states and other countries resulting in pricing pressures could have a negative impact on our future operating results: initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where we do business. pricing pressure has also increased due to continued consolidation among healthcare providers, trends toward managed care, the shift towards governments becoming the primary payers of healthcare expenses and government laws and regulations relating to sales and promotion, reimbursement and pricing generally. reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage for our products or other cost containment measures, including any that reduce medical procedure volumes, could unfavorably affect our future operating results. we may be unable to effectively develop and market products against the products of our competitors in a highly competitive industry: our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by our competitors. competitive factors include price, customer service, technology, innovation, quality, reputation and reliability. our competition may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, have greater financial, marketing and other resources or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. given these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue our level of success in the industry. competition in the development and improvement of new and existing products is particularly significant and results from time to time in product obsolescence: the markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an ongoing basis. such marketplace changes may cause some of our products to become obsolete. if actual product life cycles, product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less favorable than projected by management, a higher level of inventory write downs may result. we may be unable to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals: we seek to maintain close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. we rely on these professionals to assist us in the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand our existing product lines. if we are unable to maintain these relationships, our ability to develop, market and sell new and improved products could decrease. we are subject to additional risks associated with our extensive international operations: we develop, manufacture and distribute our products globally. our international operations are subject to a number of additional risks and potential costs, including changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs, unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements, differing local product preferences and product requirements, diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations, political and economic instability. our results of operations and/or financial condition could be adversely impacted if we are unable to successfully manage these and other risks of international operations in an increasingly volatile environment. we may be unable to capitalize on previous or future acquisitions: in addition to internally developed products, we rely upon investment in new technologies through acquisitions. investments in medical technology are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any acquisition will be successful or will not have a material unfavorable impact on us. these risks include the activities required to integrate new businesses, which may result in the need to allocate more resources to integration and product development activities than originally anticipated, diversion of management time, which could adversely affect management's ability to focus on other projects, the inability to realize the expected benefits, savings or synergies from the acquisition, the loss of key personnel of the acquired company and exposure to unexpected liabilities of the acquired company. in addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so, which may result in unexpected impairment charges. we may record future goodwill impairment charges related to one or more of our business units, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations: we perform our annual impairment test for goodwill in the fourth quarter of each year, or more frequently if indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist. in evaluating the potential for impairment we make assumptions regarding revenue projections, growth rates, cash flows, tax rates and discount rates. these assumptions are uncertain and by nature may vary from actual results. a significant reduction in the estimated fair values could result in impairment charges that could materially affect our results of operations. our results of operations could be negatively impacted by future changes in the allocation of income to each of the income tax jurisdictions in which we operate: we operate in multiple income tax jurisdictions both in the united states and internationally. accordingly, our management must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each jurisdiction based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. income tax authorities regularly perform audits of our income tax filings. income tax audits associated with the allocation of income and other complex issues, including inventory transfer pricing and cost sharing, product royalty and foreign branch arrangements, may require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in significant income tax adjustments. if changes to the income allocation are required between jurisdictions with different income tax rates, the related adjustments could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations. failure of a key information technology system, process or site and a breach of information security, including a cybersecurity breach or failure of one or more key information technology systems, networks, processes, associated sites or service providers could have a material adverse impact on our business or reputation: we rely extensively on information technology (it) systems to conduct business. these systems include, but are not limited to, ordering and managing materials 5 dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. stryker corporation 2015 form 10-k from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping products to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, providing data security and other processes necessary to manage our business. in addition, our reliance on networks and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities and tools and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third-parties or their vendors, to assist in conducting our business. numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats, including advanced persistent threats, pose a potential risk to the security of our it systems, networks and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data and our responsibilities to governments. we have made investments seeking to address these threats, including monitoring of networks and systems, hiring of experts, employee training and security policies for employees and third-party providers; however, because the techniques used in these attacks change frequently and may be difficult to detect for periods of time, we may face difficulties in anticipating and implementing adequate preventative measures. if the it systems are damaged or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, networks or service providers we rely upon fail to function properly, or if we or one of our third-party providers suffer a loss or disclosure of our business or stakeholder information, due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events or power outages to improper data handling or security breaches, and our business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, we may be exposed to reputational, competitive and business harm as well as litigation and regulatory action. the costs and operational consequences of interruptions in our operations and responding to breaches and implementing remediation measures could be significant. we may be unable to attract and retain key employees: our sales, technical and other key personnel play an integral role in the development, marketing and selling of new and existing products. if we are unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work force, we may not be able to meet our strategic business objectives. an inability to successfully manage the implementation of a new global enterprise resource planning ("erp") system could adversely affect our operations and operating results: we are in the process of implementing a new global erp system. this system will replace many of our existing operating and financial systems. such an implementation is a major undertaking both financially and from a management and personnel perspective. should the system not be implemented successfully, or if the system does not perform in a satisfactory manner, it could be disruptive and adversely affect our operations and results of operations, including our ability to report accurate and timely financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we consider our material area of market risk exposure to be exchange rate risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about exchange rate risk are included in the "other information" section of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition in item 7, under the caption "other information - hedging and derivative financial instruments." 16 dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. stryker corporation 2015 form 10-krisk factors 3 risk factors. this report contains statements referring to us that are not historical facts and are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements, which are intended to take advantage of the "safe harbor" provisions of the reform act, are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as "may," "could," "will," "should," "possible," "plan," "predict," "forecast," "potential," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "believe," "may impact," "on track," "goal," "strategy" and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, an acquisition or our businesses. in addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. some important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations in any forward-looking statements include the risks discussed below. our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties discussed below that could materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem not to be material may also materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. legal and regulatory risks current economic and political conditions make tax rules in any jurisdiction subject to significant change: proposals for broad reform of the existing united states corporate tax system are under evaluation by various legislative and administrative bodies. dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 3 stryker corporation 2016 form 10-k we cannot predict the overall impact that such proposals may have on our business. in addition, further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise, including as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting (beps) project undertaken by the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd). the oecd, which represents a coalition of member countries, has issued recommendations that, in some cases, would make substantial changes to numerous long-standing tax positions and principles. these contemplated changes, to the extent adopted by oecd members and/or other countries, could increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. the impact of united states healthcare reform legislation on our business remains uncertain: in 2010 the patient protection and affordable care act (aca) was enacted. while the provisions of the aca are intended to expand access to health insurance coverage and improve the quality of healthcare over time, other provisions of the legislation, including medicare provisions aimed at decreasing costs, comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies, are having a meaningful effect on the way healthcare is developed and delivered and could have a significant effect on our business. among other things, the aca imposed a 2.3 percent excise tax on medical devices that applies only to united states sales, which are a majority of our medical device sales; however, congress suspended the excise tax for 2016 and 2017. we are unable to predict whether the suspension will be continued beyond 2017. we also face uncertainties that might result from modification or repeal of any of the provisions of the aca, including as a result of current and future executive orders and legislative actions. we cannot predict what other healthcare programs and regulations will ultimately be implemented at the federal or state level or the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the united states may have on our business. we are subject to extensive governmental regulation relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products: our products are subject to extensive and evolving regulations and rigorous regulatory enforcement by the fda and other governmental authorities in the united states and internationally. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted timely. we have ongoing responsibilities under the laws and regulations applicable to our products and facilities and are subject to periodic inspections by the fda and other governmental authorities to determine compliance with the quality system and medical device reporting regulations and other requirements. remediation costs can be significant. if we fail to fully comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to a range of sanctions, including substantial fines, warning letters that require corrective action, product seizures, recalls, the suspension of product manufacturing, revocation of approvals, exclusion from future participation in government healthcare programs, substantial fines and criminal prosecution. we are subject to federal, state and foreign healthcare regulations including anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and could face substantial penalties if we fail to fully comply with such regulations and laws: the relationships that we and our distributors and others that market our products have with healthcare professionals, such as physicians and hospitals, are subject to scrutiny under various state and federal laws often referred to collectively as healthcare fraud and abuse laws. in addition, the united states and foreign government regulators have increased the enforcement of the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-bribery laws. we also must comply with a variety of other laws that protect the privacy of individually identifiable healthcare information and impose extensive tracking and reporting related to all transfers of value provided to certain healthcare professionals. these laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretation and we could be required to incur substantial costs to monitor compliance or to alter our practices if we are found not to be in compliance. violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment of current or former employees and exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs. we may be adversely affected by product liability claims, unfavorable court decisions or legal settlements: we are exposed to potential product liability risks inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, many of which are implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. we are currently defendants in a number of product liability matters, including those relating to our rejuvenate and abgii modular-neck hip stems discussed in note 6 to our consolidated financial statements. these matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable. in addition, we may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether we are found to be liable. we are self-insured for product liability-related claims and expenses. intellectual property litigation and infringement claims could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling certain of our products: the medical device industry is characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation and, from time to time, we are the subject of claims of infringement or misappropriation. regardless of outcome, such claims are expensive to defend and divert management and operating personnel from other business issues. a successful claim or claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could result in payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments or negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products in the affected category. dependence on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to such rights may impact offerings in our product portfolios: our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. if we fail to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property protection, it could allow others to sell products that directly compete with proprietary features in our product portfolio. also, our issued patents may be subject to claims challenging their validity and scope and raising other issues. in addition, currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents. market risks macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our ability to conduct business in affected regions: financial difficulties experienced by our customers, distributors and suppliers could result in product delays and inventory issues; risks to accounts receivable could also include delays in collection and greater bad debt expense. we have exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on cross border transactions and translation of local currency results into united states dollars: we report our financial results in united states dollars and 27% of our net sales are denominated in foreign currencies, including the euro, the british pound and the japanese yen. cross border transactions with external parties and intercompany relationships result in increased exposure to foreign currency exchange effects. while we use derivative instruments to manage the impact of currency exchange; our hedging strategies may not be successful, and our unhedged exposures continue to be subject to currency fluctuations. in addition, the weakening or dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 4 stryker corporation 2016 form 10-k strengthening of the united states dollar results in favorable or unfavorable translation effects when the results of our foreign locations are translated into united states dollars. additional capital that we may require in the future may not be available to us or may only be available to us on unfavorable terms: our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including operating requirements, current and future acquisitions and the need to refinance existing debt. our ability to issue additional debt or enter into other financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be adversely affected by our debt levels, unfavorable changes in economic conditions generally or uncertainties that affect the capital markets. changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized credit rating agencies could also adversely affect our access to and cost of financing. higher borrowing costs or the inability to access capital markets could adversely affect our ability to support future growth and operating requirements. business and operational risks we are subject to cost containment measures in the united states and other countries resulting in pricing pressures: initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to control healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where we do business. pricing pressure has also increased due to continued consolidation among healthcare providers, trends toward managed care, the shift toward governments becoming the primary payers of healthcare expenses, reduction in reimbursement levels and medical procedure volumes and government laws and regulations relating to sales and promotion, reimbursement and pricing generally. we operate in a highly competitive industry in which competition in the development and improvement of new and existing products is significant: the markets in which we compete are highly competitive. new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an ongoing basis and our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by our competitors, who may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, have greater financial, marketing and other resources or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. we may be unable to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals: we seek to maintain close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. we rely on these professionals to assist us in the development and improvement of proprietary products. if we are unable to maintain these relationships, our ability to develop, market and sell new and improved products could be adversely affected. we are subject to additional risks associated with our extensive international operations: we develop, manufacture and distribute our products globally. our international operations are subject to additional risks and potential costs, including changes in reimbursement, changes in regulatory requirements, differing local product preferences and product requirements, diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations, and political and economic instability. our business could be adversely impacted if we are unable to successfully manage these and other risks of international operations in an increasingly volatile environment. we may be unable to capitalize on previous or future acquisitions: in addition to internally developed products, we invest in new products and technologies through acquisitions. such investments are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any acquisition will be successful or will not have a material unfavorable impact on us. the risks include the activities required and resources allocated to integrate new businesses, diversion of management time that could adversely affect management's ability to focus on other projects, the inability to realize the expected benefits, savings or synergies from the acquisition, the loss of key personnel and exposure to unexpected liabilities of acquired companies. in addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become or remain profitable. we may incur goodwill impairment charges related to one or more of our business units: we perform our annual impairment test for goodwill in the fourth quarter of each year, or more frequently if indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist. in evaluating the potential for impairment we make assumptions regarding revenue projections, growth rates, cash flows, tax rates and discount rates. these assumptions are uncertain and by nature may vary from actual results. a significant reduction in the estimated fair values could result in impairment charges. we could be negatively impacted by future changes in the allocation of income to each of the income tax jurisdictions in which we operate: we operate in multiple income tax jurisdictions both in the united states and internationally. accordingly, our management must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each jurisdiction based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. income tax authorities regularly perform audits of our income tax filings. income tax audits associated with the allocation of income and other complex issues, including inventory transfer pricing and cost sharing, product royalty and foreign branch arrangements, may require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in significant income tax adjustments. we could experience a failure of a key information technology system, process or site or a breach of information security, including a cybersecurity breach or failure of one or more key information technology systems, networks, processes, associated sites or service providers: we rely extensively on information technology (it) systems to conduct business. in addition, we rely on networks and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities and tools and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third-parties or their vendors, to assist in conducting our business. numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats pose potential risks to the security of our it systems, networks and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. while we have made investments seeking to address these threats, including monitoring of networks and systems, hiring of experts, employee training and security policies for employees and third-party providers, the techniques used in these attacks change frequently and may be difficult to detect for periods of time and we may face difficulties in anticipating and implementing adequate preventative measures. if our it systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the networks or service providers we rely upon fail to function properly, or we or one of our third-party providers suffer a loss or disclosure of our business or stakeholder information due to any number of causes ranging from catastrophic events or power outages to improper data handling or security breaches and our business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, we may be exposed to reputational, competitive and business harm as well as litigation and regulatory action. dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 5 stryker corporation 2016 form 10-k an inability to successfully manage the implementation of our new global enterprise resource planning ("erp") system could adversely affect our operations and operating results: we are in the process of implementing a new global erp system. this system will replace many of our existing operating and financial systems. such an implementation is a major undertaking, both financially and from a management and personnel perspective. any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of our new erp system could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship products, provide services and customer support, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations or otherwise operate our business. we may be unable to attract and retain key employees: our sales, technical and other key personnel play an integral role in the development, marketing and selling of new and existing products. if we are unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work force, we may not be able to meet our strategic business objectives. interruption of manufacturing operations could adversely affect our business: we and our suppliers have manufacturing sites all over the world; however, the manufacturing of certain of our product lines is concentrated in one or more plants. damage to these facilities or issues in our manufacturing arising from a failure to follow specific internal protocols and procedures, compliance concerns relating to the quality systems regulation, equipment breakdown or malfunction or other factors could adversely affect the availability of our products. in the event of an interruption in manufacturing, we may be unable to move quickly to alternate means of producing affected products to meet customer demand. in the event of a significant interruption, we may experience lengthy delays in resuming production of affected products due to the need for regulatory approvals. we may experience loss of market share, additional expense and harm to our reputation. we use a variety of raw materials, components or devices in our global supply chains, production and distribution processes; significant shortages or price increases could increase our operating costs, require significant capital expenditures, or adversely impact the competitive position of our products: our reliance on certain suppliers to secure raw materials, components and finished devices exposes us to product shortages and unanticipated increases in prices. in addition, several raw materials, components, and finished devices are procured from a sole-source due to the quality considerations, unique intellectual property considerations or constraints associated with regulatory requirements. if sole-source suppliers are acquired or were unable or unwilling to deliver these materials, we may not be able to manufacture or have available one or more products during such period of unavailability and our business could suffer. in certain cases we may not be able to establish additional or replacement suppliers for such materials in a timely or cost effective manner, largely as a result of fda and other regulations that require, among other things, validation of materials and components prior to their use in our products. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we sell our products globally and, as a result, our financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as weak economic conditions or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. our operating results are primarily exposed to changes in exchange rates among the united states dollar, european currencies, in particular the euro, swiss franc and the british pound, the japanese yen, the australian dollar and the canadian dollar. we develop and manufacture products in the united states, canada, turkey, china, france, germany, ireland, mexico, puerto rico and switzerland and incur costs in the applicable local currencies. this global deployment of facilities serves to partially mitigate the impact of currency exchange rate changes on our cost of sales. refer to notes 1, 3 and 4 to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding our use of derivative instruments to mitigate these risks. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currencies relative to the united states dollar would change the december 31, 2016 fair value by approximately $188. dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 15 stryker corporation 2016 form 10-krisk factors 3 risk factors. this report contains statements that are not historical facts and are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as "may," "could," "will," "should," "possible," "plan," "predict," "forecast," "potential," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "believe," "may impact," "on track," "goal," "strategy" and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, an acquisition or our businesses. in addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. some important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations in any forward-looking statements include the risks discussed below. our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties discussed below that could materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem not to be material may also materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. legal and regulatory risks current economic and political conditions make tax rules in jurisdictions subject to significant change: our future results of operations could be affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of changes in tax laws, regulations and judicial rulings. in december 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 was signed into law in the united states. we are continuing to evaluate the impact of tax reform and expect our effective tax rate to increase. in addition, further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise, including as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting (beps) project undertaken by the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd). the oecd, which represents a coalition of member countries, has issued recommendations that, in some cases, would make substantial changes to numerous long-standing tax positions and principles. these contemplated changes, to the extent adopted by oecd members and/or other countries, could increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. the impact of united states healthcare reform legislation on our business remains uncertain: in 2010 the patient protection and affordable care act (aca) was enacted. while the provisions of the aca are intended to expand access to health insurance coverage and improve the quality of healthcare over time, other provisions of the legislation, including medicare provisions aimed at decreasing costs, comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies, are having a meaningful effect on the way healthcare is developed and delivered and could have a significant effect on our business. among other things, the aca imposed a 2.3 percent excise tax on medical devices that applies only to united states sales, which are a majority of our medical device sales. congress suspended the excise tax for 2016 and 2017. the suspension was once again upheld in january 2018 for two years. if the excise tax is not repealed or further suspended, the tax will adversely impact future results of operations after the current suspension expires in december 2019. we also face uncertainties that might result from modification or repeal of any of the provisions of the aca, including as a result of current and future executive orders and legislative actions. we dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 3 stryker corporation 2017 form 10-k cannot predict what other healthcare programs and regulations will ultimately be implemented at the federal or state level or the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the united states may have on our business. we are subject to extensive governmental regulation relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products: the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products are subject to extensive and evolving regulations and rigorous regulatory enforcement by the fda, european union and other governmental authorities in the united states and internationally. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted timely. we have ongoing responsibilities under the laws and regulations applicable to the manufacturing of products within our facilities and those contracted by third parties that are subject to periodic inspections by the fda and other governmental authorities to determine compliance with the quality system, medical device reporting regulations and other requirements. costs to comply with regulations, including the regulations set for medical devices regulation enacted by the european union in may 2017 and effective in 2020, and costs associated with remediation can be significant. if we fail to fully comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to a range of sanctions, including substantial fines, warning letters that require corrective action, product seizures, recalls, the suspension of product manufacturing, revocation of approvals, exclusion from future participation in government healthcare programs, substantial fines and criminal prosecution. we are subject to federal, state and foreign healthcare regulations including anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and could face substantial penalties if we fail to fully comply with such regulations and laws: the relationships that we and our distributors and others that market our products have with healthcare professionals, such as physicians and hospitals, are subject to scrutiny under various state and federal laws often referred to collectively as healthcare fraud and abuse laws. in addition, the united states and foreign government regulators have increased the enforcement of the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-bribery laws. we also must comply with a variety of other laws that protect the privacy of individually identifiable healthcare information and impose extensive tracking and reporting related to all transfers of value provided to certain healthcare professionals. these laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretation and we could be required to incur substantial costs to monitor compliance or to alter our practices if we are found not to be in compliance. violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment of current or former employees and exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs. we may be adversely affected by product liability claims, unfavorable court decisions or legal settlements: we are exposed to potential product liability risks inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, many of which are implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. we are currently defendants in a number of product liability matters, including those relating to our rejuvenate and abgii modular-neck hip stems discussed in note 6 to our consolidated financial statements. these matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable. in addition, we may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether we are found to be liable. we are self-insured for product liability-related claims and expenses. intellectual property litigation and infringement claims could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling certain of our products: the medical device industry is characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation and, from time to time, we are the subject of claims of infringement or misappropriation. regardless of outcome, such claims are expensive to defend and divert management and operating personnel from other business issues. a successful claim or claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could result in payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments or negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products in the affected category. dependence on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to such rights may impact offerings in our product portfolios: our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. if we fail to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property protection, it could allow others to sell products that directly compete with proprietary features in our product portfolio. also, our issued patents may be subject to claims challenging their validity and scope and raising other issues. in addition, currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents. market risks we have exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on cross border transactions and translation of local currency results into united states dollars: we report our financial results in united states dollars and 27% of our net sales are denominated in foreign currencies, including the euro, japanese yen, australian dollar, british pound and canadian dollar. cross border transactions with external parties and intercompany relationships result in increased exposure to foreign currency exchange effects. while we use derivative instruments to manage the impact of currency exchange; our hedging strategies may not be successful, and our unhedged exposures continue to be subject to currency fluctuations. in addition, the weakening or strengthening of the united states dollar results in favorable or unfavorable translation effects when the results of our foreign locations are translated into united states dollars. additional capital that we may require in the future may not be available to us or may only be available to us on unfavorable terms: our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including operating requirements, current and future acquisitions and the need to refinance existing debt. our ability to issue additional debt or enter into other financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be adversely affected by our debt levels, unfavorable changes in economic conditions or uncertainties that affect the capital markets. changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized credit rating agencies could also adversely affect our access to and cost of financing. higher borrowing costs or the inability to access capital markets could adversely affect our ability to support future growth and operating requirements. business and operational risks we are subject to cost containment measures in the united states and other countries resulting in pricing pressures: initiatives to limit the growth of general healthcare expenses and hospital costs are ongoing in the markets in which we do business. these initiatives are sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector and include price regulation and competitive pricing. pricing pressure has also increased due to continued consolidation among healthcare providers, trends toward managed care, the shift toward governments becoming the primary payers of healthcare expenses, reduction in reimbursement levels and medical procedure volumes and government laws and regulations relating to sales and promotion, reimbursement and pricing generally. dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 4 stryker corporation 2017 form 10-k we operate in a highly competitive industry in which competition in the development and improvement of new and existing products is significant: the markets in which we compete are highly competitive. new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an ongoing basis and our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by our competitors, who may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, have greater financial, marketing and other resources or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. we may be unable to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals: we seek to maintain close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. we rely on these professionals to assist us in the development and improvement of proprietary products. if we are unable to maintain these relationships, our ability to develop, market and sell new and improved products could be adversely affected. we are subject to additional risks associated with our extensive international operations: we develop, manufacture and distribute our products globally. our international operations are subject to additional risks and potential costs, including changes in reimbursement, changes in regulatory requirements, differing local product preferences and product requirements, diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations, and political and economic instability. our business could be adversely impacted if we are unable to successfully manage these and other risks of international operations in an increasingly volatile environment. we may be unable to capitalize on previous or future acquisitions: in addition to internally developed products, we invest in new products and technologies through acquisitions. such investments are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any acquisition will be successful or will not have a material unfavorable impact on us. the risks include the activities required and resources allocated to integrate new businesses, diversion of management time that could adversely affect management's ability to focus on other projects, the inability to realize the expected benefits, savings or synergies from the acquisition, the loss of key personnel and exposure to unexpected liabilities of acquired companies. in addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become or remain profitable. we may incur goodwill impairment charges related to one or more of our business units: we perform our annual impairment test for goodwill in the fourth quarter of each year, or more frequently if indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist. in evaluating the potential for impairment we make assumptions regarding revenue projections, growth rates, cash flows, tax rates and discount rates. these assumptions are uncertain and by nature may vary from actual results. a significant reduction in the estimated fair values could result in impairment charges. we could be negatively impacted by future changes in the allocation of income to each of the income tax jurisdictions in which we operate: we operate in multiple income tax jurisdictions both in the united states and internationally. accordingly, our management must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each jurisdiction based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. income tax authorities regularly perform audits of our income tax filings. income tax audits associated with the allocation of income and other complex issues, including inventory transfer pricing and cost sharing, product royalty and foreign branch arrangements, may require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in significant income tax adjustments. we could experience a failure of a key information technology system, process or site or a breach of information security, including a cybersecurity breach or failure of one or more key information technology systems, networks, processes, associated sites or service providers: we rely extensively on information technology (it) systems to conduct business. in addition, we rely on networks and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities and tools and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third-parties or their vendors, to assist in conducting our business. numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats pose potential risks to the security of our it systems, networks and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. while we have made investments seeking to address these threats, including monitoring of networks and systems, hiring of experts, employee training and security policies for employees and third-party providers, the techniques used in these attacks change frequently and may be difficult to detect for periods of time and we may face difficulties in anticipating and implementing adequate preventative measures. if our it systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the networks or service providers we rely upon fail to function properly, or we or one of our third-party providers suffer a loss or disclosure of our business or stakeholder information due to any number of causes ranging from catastrophic events or power outages to improper data handling or security breaches and our business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, we may be exposed to reputational, competitive and business harm as well as litigation and regulatory action. an inability to successfully manage the implementation of our new global enterprise resource planning (erp) system could adversely affect our operations and operating results: we are in the process of implementing a new global erp system. this system will replace many of our existing operating and financial systems. such an implementation is a major undertaking, both financially and from a management and personnel perspective. any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of our new erp system could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship products, provide services and customer support, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations or otherwise operate our business. we may be unable to attract and retain key employees: our sales, technical and other key personnel play an integral role in the development, marketing and selling of new and existing products. if we are unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work force, we may not be able to meet our strategic business objectives. interruption of manufacturing operations could adversely affect our business: we and our suppliers have manufacturing sites all over the world; however, the manufacturing of certain of our product lines is concentrated in one or more plants or geographic regions. orthopaedics has principal manufacturing and distribution facilities in the united states in new jersey, indiana, pennsylvania, utah and florida and outside the united states in china, ireland, netherlands, switzerland and germany. medsurg has principal manufacturing and distribution facilities in the united states in michigan, california, illinois, washington, utah, florida and texas and outside the united states in ireland, germany, mexico, puerto rico, switzerland, turkey and the united kingdom. neurotechnology and spine has principal manufacturing and distribution facilities in illinois, indiana and california and outside dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 5 stryker corporation 2017 form 10-k the united states in china and netherlands. damage to these facilities as a result of natural disasters or otherwise, as well as issues in our manufacturing arising from a failure to follow specific internal protocols and procedures, compliance concerns relating to the quality systems regulation, equipment breakdown or malfunction or other factors could adversely affect the availability of our products. in the event of an interruption in manufacturing, we may be unable to move quickly to alternate means of producing affected products to meet customer demand. in the event of a significant interruption, we may experience lengthy delays in resuming production of affected products due to the need for regulatory approvals. we may experience loss of market share, additional expense and harm to our reputation. we use a variety of raw materials, components or devices in our global supply chains, production and distribution processes; significant shortages or price increases could increase our operating costs, require significant capital expenditures, or adversely impact the competitive position of our products: our reliance on certain suppliers to secure raw materials, components and finished devices exposes us to product shortages and unanticipated increases in prices. in addition, several raw materials, components, and finished devices are procured from a sole-source due to the quality considerations, unique intellectual property considerations or constraints associated with regulatory requirements. if sole-source suppliers are acquired or were unable or unwilling to deliver these materials, we may not be able to manufacture or have available one or more products during such period of unavailability and our business could suffer. in certain cases we may not be able to establish additional or replacement suppliers for such materials in a timely or cost effective manner, largely as a result of fda and other regulations that require, among other things, validation of materials and components prior to their use in our products. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we sell our products globally and, as a result, our financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as weak economic conditions or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. our operating results are primarily exposed to changes in exchange rates among the united states dollar, european currencies, in particular the euro, swiss franc and the british pound, the japanese yen, the australian dollar and the canadian dollar. we develop and manufacture products in the united states, canada, china, france, germany, ireland, japan, mexico, puerto rico, sweden, switzerland and turkey and incur costs in the applicable local currencies. this global deployment of facilities serves to partially mitigate the impact of currency exchange rate changes on our cost of sales. refer to notes 1, 3 and 4 to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding our use of derivative instruments to mitigate these risks. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currencies relative to the united states dollar would change the december 31, 2017 fair value by approximately $349 . dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 15 stryker corporation 2017 form 10-krisk factors 3 risk factors. this report contains statements that are not historical facts and are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as "may," "could," "will," "should," "possible," "plan," "predict," "forecast," "potential," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "believe," "may impact," "on track," "goal," "strategy" and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, an acquisition or our businesses. in addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. some important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations in any forward-looking statements include the risks discussed below. our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties discussed below that could materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem not to be material may also materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. legal and regulatory risks current economic and political conditions make tax rules in jurisdictions subject to significant change: our future results of operations could be affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of changes in tax laws, regulations and judicial rulings. in december 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 was signed into law in the united states. we are continuing to evaluate the impact of tax reform as new guidance and regulations are published. in addition, further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise, including as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting (beps) project undertaken by the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd). the oecd, which represents a coalition of member countries, has issued recommendations that, in some cases, would make substantial changes to numerous long-standing tax positions and principles. these contemplated changes, to the extent adopted by oecd members and/or other countries, could increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. the impact of united states healthcare reform legislation on our business remains uncertain: in 2010 the patient protection and affordable care act (aca) was enacted. while the provisions of the aca are intended to expand access to health insurance coverage and improve the quality of healthcare over time, other provisions of the legislation, including medicare provisions aimed at decreasing costs, comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies, are having a meaningful effect on the way healthcare is developed and delivered and could have a significant effect on our business. among other things, the aca imposed a 2.3 percent excise tax on medical devices that applies only to united states sales, which are a majority of our medical device sales. congress suspended the excise tax for 2016 and 2017. the suspension was once again upheld in january 2018 for two years. if the excise tax is not repealed or further suspended, the tax will adversely impact future results of operations after the current suspension expires in december 2019. we also face uncertainties that might result from modification or repeal of any of the provisions of the aca, including as a result of current and future executive orders and legislative actions. we cannot predict what other healthcare programs and regulations will ultimately be implemented at the federal or state level or the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the united states may have on our business. we are subject to extensive governmental regulation relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products: the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products are subject to extensive and evolving regulations and rigorous regulatory enforcement by the fda, european union (eu), the safe food and drug administration (sfda) in china, and other governmental authorities in the united states and internationally. the process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 3 stryker corporation 2018 form 10-k be granted timely. we have ongoing responsibilities under the laws and regulations applicable to the manufacturing of products within our facilities and those contracted by third parties that are subject to periodic inspections by the fda and other governmental authorities to determine compliance with the quality system, medical device reporting regulations and other requirements. costs to comply with regulations, including the eu medical device regulation enacted by the eu in may 2017 and effective in may 2020, and the regulatory laws established by the sfda in china, and costs associated with remediation can be significant. if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to a range of sanctions, including substantial fines, warning letters that require corrective action, product seizures, recalls, the suspension of product manufacturing, revocation of approvals, exclusion from future participation in government healthcare programs, substantial fines and criminal prosecution. we are subject to federal, state and foreign healthcare regulations, including anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and could face substantial penalties if we fail to comply with such regulations and laws: the relationships that we and our distributors and others that market our products have with healthcare professionals, such as physicians and hospitals, are subject to scrutiny under various state and federal laws often referred to collectively as healthcare fraud and abuse laws. in addition, the united states and foreign government regulators have increased the enforcement of the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-bribery laws. we also must comply with a variety of other laws that protect the privacy of individually identifiable healthcare information and impose extensive tracking and reporting related to all transfers of value provided to certain healthcare professionals. these laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretation and we have in the past been, and in the future could be, required to incur substantial costs to monitor compliance or to alter our practices. violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment of current or former employees and exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs. we are subject to data privacy and protection regulations and laws globally, and could face substantial penalties if we fail to comply with such regulations and laws: we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations globally regarding privacy, data protection, and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, and security of personal data. for example, europe's general data protection regulation (gdpr), which became effective in may 2018, applies to all of our activities related to products and services that we offer to eu customers and employees. the gdpr established new requirements regarding the handling of personal data and includes significant penalties for non-compliance (including possible fines of up to 4% of total company revenue). other governmental authorities around the world are considering similar types of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, which could impose significant limitations and increase our cost of providing our products and services where we process end user personal data. these laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretation and we have in the past been, and in the future could be, required to incur substantial costs to monitor compliance or to alter our practices. we may be adversely affected by product liability claims, unfavorable court decisions or legal settlements: we are exposed to potential product liability risks inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, many of which are implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. we are currently defendants in a number of product liability matters, including those relating to our rejuvenate and abgii modular-neck hip stems and lfit anatomic cocr v40 femoral heads discussed in note 7 to our consolidated financial statements. these matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable. in addition, we may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether we are found to be liable. we are self-insured for product liability-related claims and expenses. intellectual property litigation and infringement claims could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling certain of our products: the medical device industry is characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation and, from time to time, we are the subject of claims of infringement or misappropriation. regardless of outcome, such claims are expensive to defend and divert management and operating personnel from other business issues. a successful claim or claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could result in payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments or negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products in the affected category. dependence on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to such rights may impact offerings in our product portfolios: our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. if we fail to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property protection, it could allow others to sell products that directly compete with proprietary features in our product portfolio. also, our issued patents may be subject to claims challenging their validity and scope and raising other issues. in addition, currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents. market risks we have exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on cross border transactions and translation of local currency results into united states dollars: we report our financial results in united states dollars and approximately 30% of our net sales are denominated in foreign currencies, including the australian dollar, british pound, euro and japanese yen. cross border transactions with external parties and intercompany relationships result in increased exposure to foreign currency exchange effects. while we use derivative instruments to manage the impact of currency exchange, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and our unhedged exposures continue to be subject to currency fluctuations. in addition, the weakening or strengthening of the united states dollar results in favorable or unfavorable translation effects when the results of our foreign locations are translated into united states dollars. additional capital that we may require in the future may not be available to us or may only be available to us on unfavorable terms: our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including operating requirements, current and future acquisitions and the need to refinance existing debt. our ability to issue additional debt or enter into other financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be adversely affected by our debt levels, unfavorable changes in economic conditions or uncertainties that affect the capital markets. changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized credit rating agencies could also adversely affect our access to and cost of financing. higher borrowing costs or the inability to access capital markets could adversely affect our ability to support future growth and operating requirements. business and operational risks we are subject to cost containment measures in the united states and other countries resulting in pricing pressures: initiatives to limit the growth of general healthcare expenses and dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 4 stryker corporation 2018 form 10-k hospital costs are ongoing in the markets in which we do business. these initiatives are sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector and include price regulation and competitive pricing. pricing pressure has also increased due to continued consolidation among healthcare providers, trends toward managed care, the shift toward governments becoming the primary payers of healthcare expenses, reduction in reimbursement levels and medical procedure volumes and government laws and regulations relating to sales and promotion, reimbursement and pricing generally. we operate in a highly competitive industry in which competition in the development and improvement of new and existing products is significant: the markets in which we compete are highly competitive. new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an ongoing basis and our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by our competitors, who may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, have greater financial, marketing and other resources or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. we may be unable to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals: we seek to maintain close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. we rely on these professionals to assist us in the development and improvement of proprietary products. if we are unable to maintain these relationships, our ability to develop, market and sell new and improved products could be adversely affected. we are subject to additional risks associated with our extensive international operations: we develop, manufacture and distribute our products globally. our international operations are subject to additional risks and potential costs, including changes in reimbursement, changes in regulatory requirements, differing local product preferences and product requirements, diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations, and political and economic instability. our business could be adversely impacted if we are unable to successfully manage these and other risks of international operations in an increasingly volatile environment. we may be unable to capitalize on previous or future acquisitions: in addition to internally developed products, we invest in new products and technologies through acquisitions. such investments are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any acquisition will be successful or will not have a material unfavorable impact on us. the risks include the activities required and resources allocated to integrate new businesses, diversion of management time that could adversely affect management's ability to focus on other projects, the inability to realize the expected benefits, savings or synergies from the acquisition, the loss of key personnel and exposure to unexpected liabilities of acquired companies. in addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become or remain profitable. we may incur goodwill impairment charges related to one or more of our business units: we perform our annual impairment test for goodwill in the fourth quarter of each year, or more frequently if indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist. in evaluating the potential for impairment we make assumptions regarding revenue projections, growth rates, cash flows, tax rates and discount rates. these assumptions are uncertain and by nature may vary from actual results. a significant reduction in the estimated fair values could result in impairment charges. we could be negatively impacted by future changes in the allocation of income to each of the income tax jurisdictions in which we operate: we operate in multiple income tax jurisdictions both in the united states and internationally. accordingly, our management must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each jurisdiction based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. income tax authorities regularly perform audits of our income tax filings. income tax audits associated with the allocation of income and other complex issues, including inventory transfer pricing and cost sharing, product royalty and foreign branch arrangements, may require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in significant income tax adjustments. we could experience a failure of a key information technology system, process or site or a breach of information security, including a cybersecurity breach or failure of one or more key information technology systems, networks, processes, associated sites or service providers: we rely extensively on information technology (it) systems to conduct business. in addition, we rely on networks and services, including internet sites, cloud and saas solutions, data hosting and processing facilities and tools and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third-parties or their vendors, to assist in conducting our business. numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats pose potential risks to the security of our it systems, networks and product offerings, as well as the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. a security breach, whether of our products, of our customers' network security and systems or of third-party hosting services, could impact the use of such products and the security of information stored therein. while we have made investments seeking to address these threats, including monitoring of networks and systems, hiring of experts, employee training and security policies for employees and third-party providers, the techniques used in these attacks change frequently and may be difficult to detect for periods of time and we may face difficulties in anticipating and implementing adequate preventative measures. if our it systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the networks or service providers we rely upon fail to function properly, or we or one of our third-party providers suffer a loss or disclosure of our business or stakeholder information due to any number of causes ranging from catastrophic events or power outages to improper data handling or security breaches and our business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, we may be exposed to reputational, competitive and business harm as well as litigation and regulatory action. an inability to successfully manage the implementation of our new global enterprise resource planning (erp) system could adversely affect our operations and operating results: we are in the process of implementing a new global erp system. this system will replace many of our existing operating and financial systems. such an implementation is a major undertaking, both financially and from a management and personnel perspective. any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of our new erp system could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship products, provide services and customer support, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations or otherwise operate our business. we may be unable to attract and retain key employees: our sales, technical and other key personnel play an integral role in the development, marketing and selling of new and existing products. if we are unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 5 stryker corporation 2018 form 10-k competitive work force, we may not be able to meet our strategic business objectives. interruption of manufacturing operations could adversely affect our business: we and our suppliers have manufacturing sites all over the world; however, the manufacturing of certain of our product lines is concentrated in one or more plants or geographic regions. orthopaedics has principal manufacturing and distribution facilities in the united states in new jersey, pennsylvania and florida and outside the united states in china, ireland, netherlands, switzerland, germany and the united kingdom. medsurg has principal manufacturing and distribution facilities in the united states in michigan, california, illinois, indiana, washington, florida and texas and outside the united states in ireland, germany, mexico, puerto rico, switzerland, turkey, france and the united kingdom. neurotechnology and spine has principal manufacturing and distribution facilities in illinois, indiana, utah, pennsylvania and california and outside the united states in china, ireland, france, switzerland and netherlands. damage to these facilities as a result of natural disasters or otherwise, as well as issues in our manufacturing arising from a failure to follow specific internal protocols and procedures, compliance concerns relating to the quality systems regulation, equipment breakdown or malfunction or other factors, could adversely affect the availability of our products. in the event of an interruption in manufacturing, we may be unable to move quickly to alternate means of producing affected products to meet customer demand. in the event of a significant interruption, we may experience lengthy delays in resuming production of affected products due to the need for regulatory approvals. we may experience loss of market share, additional expense and harm to our reputation. we use a variety of raw materials, components or devices in our global supply chains, production and distribution processes; significant shortages or price increases could increase our operating costs, require significant capital expenditures, or adversely impact the competitive position of our products: our reliance on certain suppliers to secure raw materials, components and finished devices exposes us to product shortages and unanticipated increases in prices. in addition, several raw materials, components, and finished devices are procured from a sole-source due to the quality considerations, unique intellectual property considerations or constraints associated with regulatory requirements. if sole-source suppliers are acquired or were unable or unwilling to deliver these materials, we may not be able to manufacture or have available one or more products during such period of unavailability and our business could suffer. in certain cases we may not be able to establish additional or replacement suppliers for such materials in a timely or cost effective manner, largely as a result of fda and other regulations that require, among other things, validation of materials and components prior to their use in our products. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we sell our products globally and, as a result, our financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as weak economic conditions or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. our operating results are primarily exposed to changes in exchange rates among the united states dollar, european currencies, in particular the euro, swiss franc and the british pound, the japanese yen, the australian dollar and the canadian dollar. we develop and manufacture products in the united states, canada, china, france, germany, ireland, japan, mexico, puerto rico, sweden, switzerland and turkey and incur costs in the applicable local currencies. this global deployment of facilities serves to partially mitigate the impact of currency exchange rate changes on our cost of sales. refer to notes 1, 4 and 5 to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding our use of derivative instruments to mitigate these risks. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currencies relative to the united states dollar would change the december 31, 2018 fair value of these instruments by approximately $334 . dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 15 stryker corporation 2018 form 10-krisk factors 3 risk factors. this report contains statements that are not historical facts and are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as "may," "could," "will," "should," "possible," "plan," "predict," "forecast," "potential," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "believe," "may impact," "on track," "goal," "strategy" and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, an acquisition or our businesses. in addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. some important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations in any forward-looking statements include the risks discussed below. our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties discussed below that could materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem not to be material may also materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. legal and regulatory risks current economic and political conditions make tax rules in jurisdictions subject to significant change: our future results of operations could be affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of changes in tax laws, regulations and judicial rulings. in december 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 was signed into law in the united states. we are continuing to evaluate the impact of tax reform as new guidance and regulations are published. in addition, further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise, including as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting (beps) project undertaken by the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd). the oecd, which represents a coalition of member countries, has issued recommendations that, in some cases, would make substantial changes to numerous long-standing tax positions and principles. these contemplated changes, to the extent adopted by oecd members and/or other countries, could increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. the impact of united states healthcare reform legislation on our business remains uncertain: in 2010 the patient protection and affordable care act (aca) was enacted. while the provisions of the aca are intended to expand access to health insurance coverage and improve the quality of healthcare over time, other provisions of the legislation, including medicare provisions aimed at decreasing costs, comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies, are having a meaningful effect on the way healthcare is developed and delivered and could have a significant effect on our business. there have been ongoing judicial and congressional efforts to modify or repeal all or certain provisions of the aca . among other things, the aca imposed a 2.3 percent excise tax on medical devices that applies only to united states sales, which are a majority of our medical device sales. congress suspended the excise tax for 2016 and 2017 and the suspension was once again upheld in january 2018 for two years. in december 2019, the excise tax was permanently repealed. we face uncertainties that might result from modification or repeal of any of the provisions of the aca, including as a result of current and future executive orders and legislative actions. we cannot predict what other healthcare programs and regulations will ultimately be implemented at the federal or state level or the effect dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 3 stryker corporation 2019 form 10-k of any future legislation or regulation in the united states may have on our business. we are subject to extensive governmental regulation relating to the classification, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and sale of our products: the classification, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and sale of our products are subject to extensive and evolving regulations and rigorous regulatory enforcement by the fda, european union (eu), the national medical products administration (nmpa) in china, and other governmental authorities in the united states and internationally. the process of obtaining regulatory clearances and/or approvals to market and sell our products can be costly and time consuming and the clearances and/or approvals might not be granted timely. we have ongoing responsibilities under the laws and regulations applicable to the manufacturing of products within our facilities and those contracted by third parties that are subject to periodic inspections by the fda and other governmental authorities to determine compliance with the quality system, medical device reporting regulations and other requirements. costs to comply with regulations, including the eu medical device regulation enacted by the eu in may 2017 and effective in may 2020, and the regulatory laws established by the nmpa in china, and costs associated with remediation can be significant. if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to a range of sanctions, including substantial fines, warning letters that require corrective action, product seizures, recalls, the suspension of product manufacturing, revocation of approvals, exclusion from future participation in government healthcare programs, substantial fines and criminal prosecution. we are subject to federal, state and foreign healthcare regulations, including anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and could face substantial penalties if we fail to comply with such regulations and laws: the relationships that we, and third parties that market and/or sell our products, have with healthcare professionals, such as physicians, hospitals and other healthcare organizations, are subject to scrutiny under various state and federal laws often referred to collectively as healthcare fraud and abuse laws. in addition, the united states and foreign government regulators have increased the enforcement of the foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and other anti-bribery laws. we also must comply with a variety of other laws that impose extensive tracking and reporting related to all transfers of value provided to certain healthcare professionals. these laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretation and we have in the past been, and in the future could be, required to incur substantial costs to monitor compliance or to alter our practices. violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment of current or former employees and exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs. in 2013 and 2018 we settled claims brought by the securities and exchange commission (sec) related to the fcpa. pursuant to these settlements, we paid fines and penalties, and we are working with an independent compliance consultant to implement recommendations that resulted from the independent compliance consultant's review of our commercial practices. we are subject to data privacy and protection regulations and laws globally, and could face substantial penalties if we fail to comply with such regulations and laws: we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations globally regarding privacy, data protection, and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, and security of personally identifiable healthcare information. for example, europe's general data protection regulation (gdpr), which became effective in may 2018, applies to all of our activities related to products and services that we offer to eu customers and employees. the gdpr established new requirements regarding the handling of personal data and includes significant penalties for non-compliance (including possible fines of up to 4% of total company revenue). other governmental authorities around the world are considering similar types of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, which could impose significant limitations and increase our cost of providing our products and services where we process personal data. these laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretation and we have in the past been, and in the future could be, required to incur substantial costs to monitor compliance or to alter our practices. we may be adversely affected by product liability claims, unfavorable court decisions or legal settlements: we are exposed to potential product liability risks inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, many of which are implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. we are currently defendants in a number of product liability matters, including those relating to our rejuvenate and abgii modular-neck hip stems and lfit anatomic cocr v40 femoral heads discussed in note 7 to our consolidated financial statements. these matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable. in addition, we may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether we are found to be liable. we are self-insured for product liability-related claims and expenses. intellectual property litigation and infringement claims could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling certain of our products: the medical device industry is characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation and, from time to time, we are the subject of claims of infringement or misappropriation. regardless of outcome, such claims are expensive to defend and divert management and operating personnel from other business issues. a successful claim or claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could result in payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments or negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products in the affected category. dependence on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to such rights may impact offerings in our product portfolios: our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. if we fail to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property protection, it could allow others to sell products that directly compete with proprietary features in our product portfolio. also, our issued patents may be subject to claims challenging their validity and scope and raising other issues. in addition, currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents. market risks we have exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on cross border transactions and translation of local currency results into united states dollars: we report our financial results in united states dollars and approximately 30% of our net sales are denominated in foreign currencies, including the australian dollar, british pound, euro and japanese yen. cross border transactions with external parties and intercompany relationships result in increased exposure to foreign currency exchange effects. while we use derivative instruments to manage the impact of currency exchange, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and our unhedged exposures continue to be subject to currency fluctuations. in addition, the weakening or strengthening of the united states dollar results in favorable or unfavorable translation dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 4 stryker corporation 2019 form 10-k effects when the results of our foreign locations are translated into united states dollars. additional capital that we may require in the future may not be available to us or may only be available to us on unfavorable terms: our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including operating requirements, current and future acquisitions and the need to refinance existing debt. our ability to issue additional debt or enter into other financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be adversely affected by our debt levels, unfavorable changes in economic conditions or uncertainties that affect the capital markets. changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized credit rating agencies could also adversely affect our access to and cost of financing. higher borrowing costs or the inability to access capital markets could adversely affect our ability to support future growth and operating requirements. business and operational risks we are subject to cost containment measures in the united states and other countries resulting in pricing pressures: initiatives to limit the growth of general healthcare expenses and hospital costs are ongoing in the markets in which we do business. these initiatives are sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector and include price regulation and competitive pricing. pricing pressure has also increased due to continued consolidation among healthcare providers, trends toward managed care, the shift toward governments becoming the primary payers of healthcare expenses, reduction in reimbursement levels and medical procedure volumes and government laws and regulations relating to sales and promotion, reimbursement and pricing generally. we operate in a highly competitive industry in which competition in the development and improvement of new and existing products is significant: the markets in which we compete are highly competitive. new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an ongoing basis and our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by our competitors, who may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, have greater financial, marketing and other resources or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. we may be unable to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals: we seek to maintain close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in healthcare organizations such as hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. we rely on these professionals to assist us in the development and improvement of proprietary products. if we are unable to maintain these relationships, our ability to develop, market and sell new and improved products could be adversely affected. we rely on indirect distribution channels and major distributors that are independent of stryker: in many markets, we rely on indirect distribution channels to market, distribute, and sell our products. these indirect channels often are the main point of contact for the healthcare professional and healthcare organization customers who buy and use our products. our ability to continue to market, distribute, and sell our products may be at risk if the indirect channels choose to sell competitive products, choose to stop selling medical technology, or are subject to new or additional government regulation. we are subject to additional risks associated with our extensive global operations: we develop, manufacture and distribute our products globally. our global operations are subject to risks and potential costs, including changes in reimbursement, changes in regulatory requirements, differing local product preferences and product requirements, diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries, tariffs and other trade protection measures, international trade disputes and import or export requirements, difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations, introduction of new internal business structures and programs, and political and economic instability (such as the united kingdom's exit from the european union, commonly referred to as "brexit"). our business could be adversely impacted if we are unable to successfully manage these and other risks of global operations in an increasingly volatile environment. we may be unable to capitalize on previous or future acquisitions: in addition to internally developed products, we invest in new products and technologies through acquisitions. such investments are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any acquisition will be successful or will not have a material unfavorable impact on us. the risks include the activities required and resources allocated to integrate new businesses, diversion of management time that could adversely affect management's ability to focus on other projects, the inability to realize the expected benefits, savings or synergies from the acquisition, the loss of key personnel, litigation resulting from the acquisition and exposure to unexpected liabilities of acquired companies. in addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become or remain profitable. we may be unable to close the wright medical acquisition or, if the acquisition does close, to capitalize on it: the completion of the acquisition of wright medical group n.v. (wright) is subject to a number of conditions. the failure to satisfy all of the required conditions, including the receipt of required regulatory clearances, could delay the completion of the transaction for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring at all. any delay in completing the transaction could cause us not to realize some or all of the expected benefits of the transaction or to realize them on a different timeline than expected. in addition, the terms and conditions of the required regulatory clearances for the acquisition may impose requirements, limitations or costs that may materially delay the completion of the transaction or could materially adversely affect the expected benefits of the transaction. any breach by us of the acquisition agreement could also subject us to material liabilities related to the transaction. if completed, the success of the wright acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine and integrate wright into our businesses and realize the anticipated benefits, including synergies, from the transaction. if we are unable to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. the integration of wright into stryker may result in material challenges, including: the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns and performance shortfalls at one or both of the companies; maintaining employee morale and retaining key management, sales and other employees; retaining existing business and operational relationships; the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration process; consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems; and unforeseen costs, expenses and liabilities (including litigation related liabilities) associated with the acquisition. we may incur goodwill impairment charges related to one or more of our business units: we perform our annual impairment test for goodwill in the fourth quarter of each year, or more frequently if indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest that dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 5 stryker corporation 2019 form 10-k impairment may exist. in evaluating the potential for impairment we make assumptions regarding revenue projections, growth rates, cash flows, tax rates and discount rates. these assumptions are uncertain and by nature may vary from actual results. a significant reduction in the estimated fair values could result in impairment charges. we could be negatively impacted by future changes in the allocation of income to each of the income tax jurisdictions in which we operate: we operate in multiple income tax jurisdictions both in the united states and internationally. accordingly, our management must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each jurisdiction based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. income tax authorities regularly perform audits of our income tax filings. income tax audits associated with the allocation of income and other complex issues, including inventory transfer pricing and cost sharing, product royalty and foreign branch arrangements, may require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in significant income tax adjustments. we could experience a failure of a key information technology system, process or site or a breach of information security, including a cybersecurity breach or failure of one or more key information technology systems, networks, processes, associated sites or service providers: we rely extensively on information technology (it) systems to conduct business. in addition, we rely on networks and services, including internet sites, cloud and saas solutions, data hosting and processing facilities and tools and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third-parties or their vendors, to assist in conducting our business. numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats pose potential risks to the security of our it systems, networks and product offerings, as well as the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. a security breach, whether of our products, of our customers' network security and systems or of third-party hosting services, could impact the use of such products and the security of information stored therein. while we have made investments seeking to address these threats, including monitoring of networks and systems, hiring of experts, employee training and security policies for employees and third-party providers, the techniques used in these attacks change frequently and may be difficult to detect for periods of time and we may face difficulties in anticipating and implementing adequate preventative measures. if our it systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the networks or service providers we rely upon fail to function properly, or we or one of our third-party providers suffer a loss or disclosure of our business or stakeholder information due to any number of causes ranging from catastrophic events or power outages to improper data handling or security breaches and our business continuity plans do not effectively address these failures on a timely basis, we may be exposed to reputational, competitive and business harm as well as litigation and regulatory action. an inability to successfully manage the implementation of our new global enterprise resource planning (erp) system could adversely affect our operations and operating results: we are in the process of implementing a new global erp system. this system will replace many of our existing operating and financial systems. such an implementation is a major undertaking, both financially and from a management and personnel perspective. any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of our new erp system could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship products, provide services and customer support, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations or otherwise operate our business. we may be unable to attract and retain key employees: our sales, technical and other key personnel play an integral role in the development, marketing and selling of new and existing products. if we are unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work force in our highly competitive industry, we may not be able to meet our strategic business objectives. in addition, if we are unable to maintain an inclusive culture that aligns our diverse work force with our mission and values, this could adversely impact our ability to recruit, hire, develop and retain key talent. interruption of manufacturing operations could adversely affect our business: we and our suppliers have manufacturing sites all over the world; however, the manufacturing of certain of our product lines is concentrated in one or more plants or geographic regions. orthopaedics has principal manufacturing and distribution facilities in the united states in florida, indiana, new jersey and virginia and outside the united states in china, france, germany, ireland, netherlands, switzerland, and the united kingdom. medsurg has principal manufacturing and distribution facilities in the united states in arizona, california, florida, illinois, indiana, michigan, puerto rico, texas and washington and outside the united states in france, germany, ireland, mexico, switzerland, turkey, and the united kingdom. neurotechnology and spine has principal manufacturing and distribution facilities in california, illinois, indiana, utah and virginia and outside the united states in china, france, ireland, and switzerland. damage to our facilities, to our suppliers' facilities, or to our central distribution centers in indiana and the netherlands as a result of natural disasters or otherwise, as well as issues in our manufacturing arising from a failure to follow specific internal protocols and procedures, compliance concerns relating to the quality systems regulation, equipment breakdown or malfunction, environmental hazard incidents or changes to environmental regulations or other factors, could adversely affect the availability of our products. in the event of an interruption in manufacturing, we may be unable to move quickly to alternate means of producing affected products to meet customer demand. in the event of a significant interruption, we may experience lengthy delays in resuming production of affected products due to the need for regulatory approvals. we may experience loss of market share, additional expense and harm to our reputation. we use a variety of raw materials, components, devices and third-party services in our global supply chains, production and distribution processes; significant shortages, price increases or unavailability of third-party services could increase our operating costs, require significant capital expenditures, or adversely impact the competitive position of our products: our reliance on certain suppliers to secure raw materials, components and finished devices, and on certain third-party service providers, such as sterilization service providers, exposes us to product shortages and unanticipated increases in prices. in addition, several raw materials, components, finished devices and services are procured from a sole-source due to the quality considerations, unique intellectual property considerations or constraints associated with regulatory requirements. if sole-source suppliers or service providers are acquired or were unable or unwilling to deliver these materials or services, we may not be able to manufacture or have available one or more products during such period of unavailability and our business could suffer. in certain cases we may not be able to establish additional or replacement suppliers for such materials or service providers for such services in a timely or cost effective manner, largely as a result of fda and other regulations that require, among other things, validation of materials, components and services prior to their use in or with our products. dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified. 6 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we sell our products globally and, as a result, our financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as weak economic conditions or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. our operating results are primarily exposed to changes in exchange rates among the united states dollar, european currencies, in particular the euro, swiss franc and the british pound, the japanese yen, the australian dollar and the canadian dollar. we develop and manufacture products in the united states, canada, china, france, germany, ireland, japan, mexico, puerto rico, sweden, switzerland and turkey and incur costs in the applicable local currencies. this global deployment of facilities serves to partially mitigate the impact of currency exchange rate changes on our cost of sales. refer to notes 1, 4 and 5 to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding our use of derivative instruments to mitigate these risks. a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currencies relative to the united states dollar would change the december 31, 2019 fair value of these instruments by approximately $523 .risk factors. 13 risk factors. the following information contains specific risks that could potentially impact the company business, financial condition or operating results. the company may be subject to additional risks that are not currently known to the company or those which the company deems immaterial that may also impact its business operations. the company inability to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals could have a negative impact on the company future operating results. the company maintains close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. the company continues to place emphasis on the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand its existing product lines. if the company is unable to maintain these good relationships, its ability to market and sell new and improved products could decrease and future operating results could be unfavorably affected. the company inability to continue to hire and retain key employees could have a negative impact on the company future operating results. the talent and drive of the company employees are key factors in the success of its business. the company sales, technical and other key personnel play an integral role in the development, marketing and selling of new and existing products. if the company is unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work force, it may not be able to meet its strategic business objectives. 13 table of contents stricter pricing guidelines for the medical technology industry could have a negative impact on the company future operating results. initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where the company does business. the company could experience a negative impact on its operating results due to increased pricing pressure in the united states, japan and certain other markets. governments, hospitals and other third party payers could reduce the amount of approved reimbursements for the company products. reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage or other cost-containment measures could unfavorably affect the company future operating results. the company operating results could be negatively impacted by changes in its excess and obsolete inventory reserves. the company maintains reserves for excess and obsolete inventory resulting from the potential inability to sell its products at prices in excess of current carrying costs. the markets in which the company operates are highly competitive, and new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an ongoing basis. such marketplace changes may cause some of the company products to become obsolete. the company makes estimates regarding the future recoverability of the costs of these products and records a provision for excess and obsolete inventories based on historical experience, expiration of sterilization dates and expected future trends. if actual product life cycles, product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less favorable than projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required, which could unfavorably affect future operating results. the company operating results could be negatively impacted if it is unable to capitalize on research and development spending. the company has spent a significant amount of time and resources on research and development projects in order to develop and validate new and innovative products. the company believes these projects will result in the commercialization of new products and will create additional future sales. however, factors including regulatory delays, safety concerns or patent disputes could delay the introduction or marketing of new products. additionally, unanticipated issues may arise in connection with current and future clinical studies that could delay or terminate a product development prior to regulatory approval. the company may experience an unfavorable impact on its operating results if it is unable to capitalize on those efforts by attaining the proper fda approval or to successfully market new products. the company operating results could be negatively impacted by future changes in the allocation of income to each of the income tax jurisdictions in which the company operates. the company operates in multiple income tax jurisdictions both inside and outside the united states. income tax authorities in these jurisdictions regularly perform audits of the company income tax filings. accordingly, management must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. income tax audits associated with the allocation of this income and other complex issues, including inventory transfer pricing and cost sharing and product royalty arrangements, may require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in significant income tax adjustments. if changes to the income allocation are required between jurisdictions with different income tax rates, such adjustments could have a material unfavorable impact on the company income tax expense and net earnings in future periods. 14 table of contents the company operating results could be negatively impacted by future product liability claims, unfavorable court decisions, regulatory compliance or legal settlements. the company is a defendant in various proceedings, legal actions and claims arising in the normal course of business, including product liability and other matters. in addition, the company may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether it is found to be liable. such matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable with assurance. to partially mitigate losses arising from unfavorable outcomes in such matters, the company purchases third-party insurance coverage subject to certain deductibles and loss limitations. while the company believes its current insurance coverage is adequate to mitigate losses arising from such matters, its future operating results may be unfavorably impacted by any settlement payments or losses beyond the amounts of insurance carried. in addition, such product liability matters may negatively impact the company ability to obtain cost-effective third-party insurance coverage in future periods. substantially all of the company products are subject to regulation by the fda and other governmental authorities both inside and outside of the united states. if the company were to fail to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements, it may be subject to a range of sanctions including, but not limited to, warning letters, monetary fines, product recalls and the suspension of product manufacturing. such sanctions, if implemented, could have a material, unfavorable impact on the company future operating results. the company operating results could be negatively impacted by economic, political or other developments in countries in which the company does business. the company distributes its products throughout the world. as a result, the company future operating results could be negatively impacted by unstable economic, political and social conditions, including but not limited to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, political instability or changes in the interpretation or creation of laws and regulations, including tax laws and regulations, in each of the countries where the company conducts business, including the united states. 15 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in the results of operations, liquidity and capital resources and other matters sections of the company management discussion and analysis of financial condition in item 7 of this report. 34 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors. the following information discusses specific risks that could potentially impact the company business, financial condition or operating results. the company may be subject to additional risks that are not currently known to the company or those which the company deems immaterial that may also impact its business operations. the company operating results could be negatively impacted by economic, political or other developments in countries in which the company does business. the company distributes its products throughout the world. as a result, the company future operating results could be negatively impacted by unstable economic, political and social conditions, including but not limited to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, political instability or changes in the interpretation or creation of laws and regulations, including tax laws and regulations, in each of the countries where the company conducts business, including the united states. stricter pricing guidelines for the medical technology industry could have a negative impact on the company future operating results. initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where the company does business. the company could experience a negative impact on its operating results due to increased pricing pressure in the united states, europe, japan and certain other markets. governments, hospitals and other third party payers could reduce the amount of approved reimbursements for the company products. reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage or other cost-containment measures could unfavorably affect the company future operating results. the company operating results could be negatively impacted by future product liability claims, unfavorable court decisions, regulatory compliance or legal settlements. the company is a defendant in various proceedings, legal actions and claims arising in the normal course of business, including product liability and other matters. such matters are subject to many uncertainties and 12 table of contents outcomes are not predictable with assurance. in addition, the company may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether it is found to be liable. to partially mitigate losses arising from unfavorable outcomes in such matters, the company purchases third-party insurance coverage subject to certain deductibles and loss limitations. while the company believes its current insurance coverage is adequate to mitigate losses arising from such matters, its future operating results may be unfavorably impacted by any settlement payments or losses beyond the amounts of insurance carried. in addition, such product liability matters may negatively impact the company ability to obtain cost-effective third-party insurance coverage in future periods. substantially all of the company products are subject to regulation by the fda and other governmental authorities both inside and outside of the united states. if the company were to fail to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements, it may be subject to a range of sanctions including, but not limited to, warning letters, monetary fines, product recalls and the suspension of product manufacturing. such sanctions, if implemented, could have a material unfavorable impact on the company future operating results. the company inability to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals could have a negative impact on the company future operating results. the company maintains close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. the company continues to place emphasis on the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand its existing product lines. if the company is unable to maintain these good relationships, its ability to develop, market and sell new and improved products could decrease and future operating results could be unfavorably affected. the company operating results could be negatively impacted by future changes in the allocation of income to each of the income tax jurisdictions in which the company operates. the company operates in multiple income tax jurisdictions both inside and outside the united states. accordingly, management must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. income tax authorities in these jurisdictions regularly perform audits of the company income tax filings. income tax audits associated with the allocation of this income and other complex issues, including inventory transfer pricing and cost sharing, product royalty and foreign branch arrangements, may require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in significant income tax adjustments. if changes to the income allocation are required between jurisdictions with different income tax rates, such adjustments could have a material unfavorable impact on the company income tax expense and net earnings in future periods. the company operating results could be negatively impacted if it is unable to capitalize on research and development spending. the company has spent a significant amount of time and resources on research and development projects in order to develop and validate new and innovative products. the company believes these projects will result in the commercialization of new products and will create additional future sales. however, factors including regulatory delays, safety concerns or patent disputes could delay the introduction or marketing of new products. additionally, unanticipated issues may arise in connection with current and future clinical studies that could delay or terminate a product development prior to regulatory approval. the company may experience an unfavorable impact on its operating results if it is unable to capitalize on those efforts by attaining the proper fda approval or to successfully market new products. 13 table of contents the company operating results could be negatively impacted by changes in its excess and obsolete inventory reserves. the company maintains reserves for excess and obsolete inventory resulting from the potential inability to sell its products at prices in excess of current carrying costs. the markets in which the company operates are highly competitive, and new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an ongoing basis. such marketplace changes may cause some of the company products to become obsolete. the company makes estimates regarding the future recoverability of the costs of these products and records a provision for excess and obsolete inventories based on historical experience, expiration of sterilization dates and expected future trends. if actual product life cycles, product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less favorable than projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required, which could unfavorably affect future operating results. the company operating results could be negatively impacted if it is unable to capitalize on previous or future acquisitions. in addition to internally developed products, the company relies upon investment in new technologies through acquisitions. investments in medical technology are inherently risky and the company cannot guarantee that any of its previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not have a material unfavorable impact on the company future operating results. such risks include the activities required to integrate new businesses into the company and may result in the need to allocate more resources to integration and product development activities than originally anticipated and involve significant amounts of management time, which could adversely affect management ability to focus on other projects and could have a material unfavorable impact on the company financial condition, consolidated results of operations or cash flows. in addition, the company cannot be certain that the businesses it acquires will become profitable or remain so, which may result in unexpected impairment charges. the company inability to continue to hire and retain key employees could have a negative impact on the company future operating results. the talent and drive of the company employees are key factors in the success of its business. the company sales, technical and other key personnel play an integral role in the development, marketing and selling of new and existing products. if the company is unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work force, it may not be able to meet its strategic business objectives. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are included in the results of operations, liquidity and capital resources and other matters sections of the company management discussion and analysis of financial condition in item 7 of this report. 35 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks item 8 . financial statements and supplementary data consolidated balance sheets consolidated statements of earnings consolidated statements of stockholders' equity consolidated statements of cash flows notes to consolidated financial statements summary of quarterly data (unaudited) report of independent auditors item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure item 9a. controls and procedures part iii item 10 . directors and executive officers of the registrant item 11. executive compensation item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management item 13. certain relationships and related transactions item 14. principal accounting fees and services part iv item 15. exhibits, financial statement schedules and reports on form 8-k - 2 - part i item 1. business general stryker corporation (the &quot;company&quot; or &quot;stryker&quot;) is a leader in the worldwide orthopaedic market and is one of the world's largest medical device companies. stryker delivers results through a wide range of capabilities including joint replacements, trauma, spine and micro implant systems, orthobiologics, powered surgical instruments, surgical navigation systems and endoscopic products as well as patient handling and emergency medical equipment. stryker also provides outpatient physical therapy services in the united states. stryker was incorporated in michigan in 1946 as the successor company to a business founded in 1941 by dr. homer h. stryker, a leading orthopaedic surgeon and the inventor of several orthopaedic products. stryker's filings with the united states securities and exchange commission, including its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports are accessible free of charge at www.stryker.com within the &quot;for investors&quot; link. in october 2002, the company purchased the dekompressor product line from pain concepts, inc. the dekompressor is a single-use disposable device indicated for the percutaneous removal of disc nucleus material. in july 2002, the company acquired the surgical dynamics inc. spinal implant business (&quot;sdi&quot;) from tyco international ltd. the acquisition expanded the company's spinal product line by adding interbody spinal cages for the united states market as well as other thoracolumbar and cervical spinal fixation devices. in november 2001, the company acquired the business of an independent italian distributor of certain stryker products. the purchase consolidated the distribution of substantially all of the company's products in italy. the company's physiotherapy associates, inc. subsidiary has also purchased a number of physical therapy clinic operations during each of the last three years. product sales the company segregates its operations into two reportable business segments: orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment. the orthopaedic implants segment sells orthopaedic reconstructive (hip, knee and shoulder), trauma and spinal implants, bone cement and the bone growth factor osteogenic protein-1 (&quot;op-1&quot;). the medsurg equipment segment sells powered surgical instruments, endoscopic products, hospital beds and stretchers and micro implant and surgical navigation systems. other includes physical therapy services and corporate administration, interest expense and interest income. the following amounts ($000,000s) and percentages represent business segment and domestic/international net sales during each of the three years ended december 31: 2003 2002 2001 $ % $ % $ % business segment sales orthopaedic implants $2,093.0 58% $1,704.8 56% $1,447.2 56% medsurg equipment 1,309.3 36 1,105.3 37 974.2 37 physical therapy services 223.0 6 201.5 7 180.9 7 $3,625.3 100% $3,011.6 100% $2,602.3 100% ====== ==== ====== ==== ====== ==== domestic/international sales domestic $2,333.4 64% $1,973.7 66% $1,688.4 65% international 1,291.9 36 1,037.9 34 913.9 35 total net sales $3,625.3 100% $3,011.6 100% $2,602.3 100% ====== ==== ====== ==== ====== ==== - 3 - additional financial information regarding the company's operating segments and geographic areas can be found under the caption &quot; note 12 - segment and geographic data &quot; on pages 50 through 52 of this report. approximately 79% of the company's sales in 2003 and 2002 and approximately 76% of the company's sales in 2001 consisted of products with short lives, such as implants (while implants have a long useful life to the patient, they have a one-time use to the hospital), trauma-related products, disposables and expendable tools and parts and service revenues, such as service and repair charges and physical therapy revenues. the balance of sales in each of the years came from products that could be considered capital equipment, having useful lives in excess of one year. the company's backlog of firm orders is not considered material to an understanding of its business. orthopaedic implants orthopaedic implants are designed and manufactured by stryker orthopaedics, stryker trauma, stryker spine and stryker biotech and consist of such products as hip, knee, shoulder and spinal implants, associated implant instrumentation, trauma-related products, bone cement and op-1 bone growth factor. artificial joints are made of cobalt chromium, titanium alloys, ceramics or ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene and are implanted in patients whose natural joints have been damaged by arthritis, osteoporosis, other diseases or injury. the company's op-1 bone growth factor, which induces the formation of new bone when implanted into bone, is composed of recombinant human osteogenic protein-1 and a bioresorbable collagen matrix. minimally invasive surgery many of stryker's technologically advanced reconstructive implants are suited to minimally invasive procedures that are intended to reduce soft-tissue damage and pain while hastening return to function. the company supports surgeons with technology and specialized instrumentation as they develop new minimally invasive techniques. during 2003, the company began the initial introduction of scorpio total knee minimally invasive instrumentation. this line of instruments is designed to complement the unique, minimally invasive total knee procedure pioneered by a leading orthopaedic surgeon. this technique can reduce the length of the incision by approximately 70% and has been performed in more than 500 procedures. because of the company's commitment to responsible science, a multicenter study was conducted to validate the technique's reproducibility and potential benefits, such as reduced pain and earlier return to function. in order to facilitate emerging procedural approaches, the company is also developing instrumentation for minimally invasive total hip arthroplasty. the company's surgical navigation systems are frequently used in minimally invasive procedures to improve the accuracy of measurements and to position the implant. hip implants through stryker orthopaedics, the company offers a variety of hip systems for the global reconstructive market. the abg hip system, partnership hip system, secur-fit hip system, omnifit hip system, accolade hip system and restoration hip system each represents a comprehensive system of hip implants and associated instrumentation designed to provide physicians and patients with reliable results and to reduce operating time for primary and revision procedures. the exeter total hip system is based on a unique, collarless, highly polished, double-tapered femoral design that reduces shear stresses and increases compression at the cement/bone interface. in 2003, the company began a limited launch of its centpillar hip system in the japanese market. a full rollout of this product is expected in 2004. the taro hip system and centpillar hip system provide lines of products that offer an increased range of motion and a minimally invasive technique preferred by japanese surgeons for their patients. on february 3, 2003, the company received premarket approval (&quot;pma&quot;) from the united states food and drug administration (&quot;fda&quot;) for its ceramic-on-ceramic hip replacement, the trident ceramic acetabular insert, for patients in the united states. stryker orthopaedics successfully launched the trident ceramic insert in the united states in the second quarter of 2003 following successful launches in europe, australia and canada in 2002. among its features are a wear-resistant ceramic insert and a titanium sleeve, which protects and strengthens the insert. other technologies used for total hip replacement include conventional polyethylene-on- - 4 - metal and metal-on-metal articulations. by the end of 2003, approximately 55% of the company's acetabular inserts sold in the united states utilized crossfire technology, a highly cross-linked polyethylene designed to reduce wear, and approximately 30% of the inserts utilized the company's ceramic insert technology. in 2002, the company launched the trident acetabular cup system. this patented design, which allows for the use of either polyethylene inserts or ceramic inserts, positioned the company well for the launch of its ceramic acetabular products in the united states in 2003. trident's two independent locking mechanisms provide maximum security for each bearing surface and increase the strength of the ceramic liner. also released in 2002 was the accolade c-cemented stem. this stem compliments the accolade tmzf cementless stem launched in 2001, which incorporates many of the same innovative design features for use with cemented stems and also utilizes the simple and efficient accolade instrumentation system. in 2001, the company introduced the omnifit super eon and super secur-fit hip systems for the japanese market. these systems capitalize on the company's long-term clinical history with the omnifit type geometry, but are modified to offer increased range of motion for patients in the japanese market. the company also released the accolade hip system to the global marketplace. this system incorporates a clinically successful geometry with a proprietary tmzf titanium alloy, purefixhydroxylapatite (&quot;ha&quot;), and an innovative neck geometry to maximize range of motion. in late 1990, stryker became the first company to receive clearance from the fda to commercially release for sale in the united states a hip implant with ha surface treatment. ha is a naturally occurring calcium phosphate material that demonstrates a high level of biocompatibility due to its resemblance to human bone. the company's global clinical experience with ha-coated hip stems now extends over 14 years and reported clinical performance continues to equal or exceed that of comparable hip stems reported in the scientific literature. the company entered 2004 with more than 30 years of clinical history with the exeter hip system, more than 20 years of clinical history with the omnifit cemented stem and 14 years of clinical history with the omnifit ha stem. long-term clinical results are an important factor in the company's ability to market hip implants. knee implants the company offers five major knee systems under the stryker brand name: the duracon, kinemax, interax, global modular replacement system (gmrs) and scorpio systems. introduced in 1991 and utilized in more than 500,000 procedures worldwide, the duracon system combines high levels of joint conformity throughout the range of motion and consistent anatomic tracking. the duracon ts and modular rotating hinge, which were introduced in 1999 and 2001, respectively, completed the duracon product line offering with implants for complex revision procedures. launched in 2003, the gmrs is a global product that offers a comprehensive solution for radical bone loss in oncology, trauma and revision surgery patients. gmrs has tibial and femoral components, including a total femur, and a modular rotating hinge knee. the system employs both titanium and cobalt chrome alloys for strength and lightness of weight, together with the superior flexibility of the hinge. the mrs system, the predecessor to the gmrs, was the first modular segmental replacement system and has maintained a leadership role in this market segment since its introduction. the kinemax system is focused in markets outside the united states and offers versatility through design principles based on the clinically successful total condylar and kinematic knee systems. precision-designed monogram instruments provide a common instrument platform for the duracon, kinemax and interax knee systems. the ergonomic engineering of monogram instruments facilitates efficient use in the operating room, enabling surgeons to choose the instruments that represent their optimal surgical technique. the scorpio knee system was designed considering normal motion of the knee based off of its epicondylar axis. this patented approach addresses significant clinical issues, such as improved patient rehabilitation and midflexion stability, through an increase in the patella-femoral moment arm and a single anterior-posterior radius. the scorpio plus mobile bearing tibial component was launched in markets outside the united states in 2001 and a clinical trial in the united states is underway. this addition to the scorpio line - 5 - provides a competitive entry into this growing market segment. the scorpioflex, which is available for both posterior cruciate-retaining and substituting indications, is specifically designed for patients who have the ability and motivation to return to high-flexion activities such as gardening and golfing. scorpioflex has enjoyed success in japan, where it is sold under the trade name scorpio superflex, and is now being sold in the united states. the scorpio system is supported by the passport instrumentation system, which was designed to provide intraoperative flexibility and precision as well as a simple, cost-effective approach to total knee replacement surgery. the eius uni knee replacement system, introduced in late 2001, is designed for the quickly growing minimally invasive knee surgery market segment. the eius uni knee has experienced strong sales following its introduction in 2001. this system marries bone-sparing femoral and tibial implants with sophisticated instrumentation and a surgical technique aimed at reducing rehabilitation time for patients. knee navigation 2.0, the next generation of surgical navigation software for total knee replacement, was introduced in 2003. this image-guided system offers high precision and consistency through unique two-way communication between the computer and the surgical instruments, giving the patient the most precise fit available. knee navigation 2.0 improves the original version, launched in 2002, with a quicker setup and even greater precision in kinematics and alignment. other reconstructive products the company markets other reconstructive products, principally shoulder and elbow implants and related instruments, under the stryker brand name. the solar total shoulder system provides a unique design for the humeral head that allows the surgeon to adjust tension of the supporting tissues while maximizing range of motion. the shoulder instruments offer the surgeon increased visibility and access to this tightly confined joint space. the solar bipolar shoulder provides the surgeon with additional options for addressing arthritis of the shoulder and is designed with the patented bipolar locking mechanism that is also used in the company's hip implants. the solar shoulder product line gives the surgeon increased intraoperative flexibility to restore the patient's shoulder kinematics. the solar total elbow complements products offered for upper extremity procedures. the semiconstrained design and modular components address varying types of patient anatomy. bone cement simplex bone cement, a material used to secure cemented implants to bone, was first approved for orthopaedic use in the united states in 1971 and is the most widely used bone cement in the world. the company manufactures several variations of simplex bone cement to meet specific patient needs. simplex has more than 40 years of clinical history, the longest of any bone cement, with more than 250 published clinical studies. in 2003, stryker received fda clearance to market simplex p with tobramycin, an antibiotic bone cement. the new, blended simplex, which has been on the market in europe since 2000, is indicated in the united states for patients who are undergoing the second stage of a two-stage revision for a total joint procedure. trauma through stryker trauma, the company develops, manufactures and markets its trauma-related products. trauma products, including nailing, plating, hip fracture and external fixation systems, are used primarily in the fixation of fractures resulting from sudden injury. these products consist of internal fixation devices marketed under such names as gamma, grosse &amp; kempf, omega, dall miles, asnis, t2 and s2, along with external fixation devices marketed under the apex, hoffmann ii and monotubetriax names. the company's internal fixation product portfolio includes a full compliment of intramedullary nails, hip fracture devices and plates and screws in both titanium and stainless steel. the intramedullary (&quot;im&quot;) nail portfolio is led by the t2 nailing system, which was released in 2001. the t2 system includes femoral, tibial and humeral components with a common instrument platform for accuracy and ease of use. building on the - 6 - success of this titanium nail, the company introduced the stainless steel s2 tibial and femoral nails in 2003. the s2 nails are designed to meet the needs of level 1 trauma centers in the united states as well as broadening the stryker product line in the rest of the world. to address the hip fracture segment, the company markets several products including the gamma nail (a unique im nail for trochanteric fractures), the omega hip screw system, the asniscannulated screw system and the hansson pin system. the asniscannulated screw system can help simplify the operative procedure through features that allow the surgeon to place, insert and remove locking screws easily. these hip fracture systems offer orthopaedic surgeons multiple options depending on their preferences and patient needs. in 2003, there was also an initial release in selected markets of the gamma 3 intramedullary hip fracture nail, improved for less invasive procedures. the company's external fixation products include the hoffmann ii modular fixation system, the monotubetriaxmonolateral system, the tenxor circular fixation system for complex fractures and a complete range of pins and wires for attaching the devices to fractured bones. the hoffmann ii system for lower extremity fractures (pelvis, femur, tibia) and the smaller hoffmann ii compact for upper extremity fractures include a patented snap-fit mechanism that makes it easy for the surgeon to construct the fixation device to fit the patient and align the fractured bones. both the hoffmann ii and the hoffmann ii compact include a full selection of lightweight radiolucent connection bars that allow for quick intraoperative fracture repair. the triax system is available in three different sizes and includes an adjustable feature that enables the surgeon to not only stabilize fractures, but to lengthen the bone in cases where bone has been removed due to damage. the tenxor hybrid frame enables a surgeon to treat complex fractures around the joints with both pins and long transfixing wires. this attribute is especially useful for patients with multipart fractures near the ankle and knee. the system features advanced composite materials and is compatible with the hoffman ii snap-fit connection devices. spinal implants through stryker spine, the company develops, manufactures and markets spinal implant products including cervical, thoracolumbar and interbody systems used in spine injury, deformity and degenerative therapies. spinal implant products comprise plates, rods, screws, connectors, spacers, cages and proprietary instrument and container systems. in 2003, stryker extended the xia spinal system by adding a new, low-profile hook system and additional components for anterior fixation. in addition, stryker introduced oasys, a new posterior fixation system developed to serve an emerging area of spine fusion surgery, in the european market during 2003. in 2002, the company acquired sdi, adding the ray threaded fusion cage interbody system and the sr90 thoracolumbar system to the global product portfolio. also in 2002, stryker introduced enhanced versions of the xia titanium system, reflex system and diapason system along with the new bonecraft system which is designed to aid surgeons in shaping and cutting allograft bone. in 2001, stryker launched the reflex, the xia stainless steel and the stabilis systems. the reflex system was a new entry in the anterior cervical plating segment. the xia stainless steel system, a new offering within the xia spinal system, was designed to better serve deformity correction requirements. the xia spinal system is a posterior system designed to relieve pain by stabilizing the spine in the thoracic, lumbar and sacral regions. it is accompanied by instrumentation that simplifies the surgical procedures. launched in international markets, the stabilis system is a novel interbody fusion device designed to improve stability and alignment during fusion. op-1 two decades ago, stryker saw the potential that biologic products held for orthopaedics in an aging world and began a long-term investment in op-1, a proprietary, recombinant version of the bone growth factor osteogenic protein-1. in 1991, the company received fda approval to begin human clinical trials of op-1, which was developed in collaboration with creative biomolecules, inc. (a company that subsequently merged into curis, inc.), as part of a long-term research program funded by stryker. the op-1 device is composed of recombinant human op-1 and a bioresorbable collagen matrix. op-1 is naturally present in the human body and directs a cascade of cellular events that result in bone growth. in preclinical studies, op-1 induced the formation - 7 - of new bone when implanted into bony defect sites. the initial human clinical study, which began in 1992, compared the efficacy of op-1 with autograft (the current standard bone graft procedure for the treatment of tibial nonunion fractures, which uses bone chips removed from a patient's hip in a second operation) in the repair of nonunion fractures of the tibia. in 1995, the fda allowed the company to enlarge the scope of the clinical trials for expanded indications of nonunion fractures in all long bones. the study demonstrated that op-1 patients had outcomes of comparable clinical success to those of the autograft patients. this eliminated the need for a second invasive procedure to harvest autograft from the hip. there were three prospectively determined clinical trial outcomes defined in the study: weight bearing, level of pain with weight bearing and radiographic assessment of cortical and/or trabecular bridging. the study design predicted 80% success at nine months postsurgery. both the op-1 and autograft groups met this prediction for the clinical outcomes of weight bearing and pain, and both groups had comparable results. the blinded radiographic assessment by an independent panel of radiologists showed that neither group achieved the 80% criteria for bridging, although bridging was higher for the autograft group. the pma application for op-1 was filed and accepted by the fda in june 1999. the company received a &quot;not approvable&quot; letter from the fda on january 29, 2001 that cited the failure of the pivotal clinical trial to meet the study endpoint of noninferiority of op-1 compared with the autograft control on a combined clinical and radiographic basis. in 2001, stryker filed an application for a humanitarian device exemption (&quot;hde&quot;) from the fda. the fda granted this approval in october 2001. this approval in the united states is for the use of op-1 as an alternative to autograft in recalcitrant long-bone nonunions where use of autograft is unfeasible and alternative treatments have failed. under the hde, op-1 was made available as a humanitarian device, defined by the fda as one intended to benefit patients by treating or diagnosing a disease or condition that affects fewer than 4,000 individuals per year in the united states. as of december 31, 2003, more than 500 hospitals have received institutional review board (&quot;irb&quot;) approval to implant op-1 in the united states under the hde. the company also filed a marketing authorization application (&quot;maa&quot;) with the european medicines evaluation agency (&quot;emea&quot;) for certain op-1 uses, and the maa was accepted for filing in july 1999. on december 14, 2000, the committee for proprietary medicinal products (&quot;cpmp&quot;) in europe voted unanimously to recommend market authorization for op-1 for the indication of nonunions of the tibia that failed prior autograft treatment or when autograft is not feasible. final european approval was obtained in may 2001 for this indication. a new drug application with the therapeutic goods administration (&quot;tga&quot;) in australia was filed in december 1999, and in february 2001 the australian drug evaluation committee (&quot;adec&quot;) adopted a positive opinion to recommend the granting of marketing authorization for op-1 for treatment of long-bone nonunions secondary to trauma for the purpose of initiating new bone formation. approval from the tga was received in april 2001. in february 2002, the company received approval to market op-1 in canada for the clinical indication of long-bone nonunions. with these global approvals, the first of their kind, the company began to market op-1. in 2002 and 2003, the increase in the number of patients treated demonstrated the success of its sales effort and the trust that surgeons have developed in the product based on favorable patient outcomes. in the united states, demand increased significantly during each quarter of 2003. stryker is committed to the further development of op-1 for spinal indications, including spinal stenosis. this degenerative condition, which is widespread in the over-65 population, causes severe pain in the lower back and legs as a result of abnormal movement in the lower spine. spinal fusion is used to stabilize the spine and reduce stenosis pain. fusing the spine with op-1 can eliminate the need for a preliminary surgery to take bone from the patient's hip to use in the fusion process. currently, the company is conducting a multicenter pivotal trial in the united states and canada for posterolateral spine fusion using a new product, op-1 putty, to treat degenerative spondylolisthesis. in 2003, the company completed enrollment in this trial. the company currently anticipates that the follow-up on the 297 enrolled patients will be completed in 2005. in japan, the company completed enrollment in a 32-patient phase ii trial for a similar indication, using op-1 in conjunction with rods and screws to fuse the spine. in october 2002, the company entered into an agreement with curis, inc., which eliminated all royalties payable to curis relating to future stryker sales of op-1. under the terms of the agreement, the company made a - 8 - one-time cash payment of $14.0 million to curis. stryker owns the patents on its osteogenic protein technology and has exclusive worldwide rights under those patents to develop, market and sell op-1 for treatment, repair or replacement of bone and joint tissue. the company has a royalty-free cross-license agreement with genetics institute, inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of wyeth, which holds patents covering a molecule different from op-1 that may produce similar effects. the agreement enables stryker to commercialize op-1 unencumbered by patent litigation with this competitor. others also are attempting to develop osteogenic proteins and bioresorbable carriers for the treatment, repair or replacement of bone and joint tissue. these other companies have filed and obtained patents in the united states and elsewhere claiming such compounds and methods of making them and using them and may in the future file and obtain other such patents. the company can provide no assurance that it will not need a license under one or more of those patents to further expand the op-1 program or whether such licenses will be available. medsurg equipment medsurg equipment products include powered surgical instruments, endoscopic products, hospital beds and stretchers and micro implant and surgical navigation systems. these products are designed and manufactured by stryker instruments, stryker endoscopy, stryker leibinger micro implants and stryker medical. the stryker instruments, stryker endoscopy and stryker leibinger micro implants product portfolios include micropowered tools and instruments that are used in orthopaedics, craniomaxillofacial surgery, functional endoscopic sinus surgery, neurosurgery, spinal surgery and plastic surgery. the total performance system (&quot;tps&quot;), released in 1996, is a universal surgical system that can be utilized within several medical specialties. the tps u2 drill, introduced in 2000, and tps burs are designed for use by spine surgeons and neurosurgeons, while the tps microdriver and tps sagittal saw are designed for use by sports physicians and plastic surgeons. the elite attachment line with a proprietary extendable bar system and saber drill for ear, nose and throat (&quot;ent&quot;) surgery were added in 2001 to further extend the tps system in spine, neurosurgery and ent applications. the tps system also powers the stryker endoscopy se5 and 12k shaver systems. the stryker leibinger micro implants hummer tps is a powered instrument that incorporates new irrigation capabilities and specialized cutters, eliminating the need for over half of the instruments otherwise required for sinus surgery. powered surgical instruments and surgical navigation systems stryker instruments provides powered surgical instruments, operating room equipment, interventional pain products and surgical navigation systems. products include a broad line of powered surgical instruments that are used by surgeons for drilling, burring, rasping or cutting bone; wiring or pinning bone fractures; and preparing hip or knee surfaces for the placement of artificial implants. stryker instruments also manufactures an array of different attachments and cutting accessories for use by orthopaedic, neurological and small-bone specialists. in 2003, stryker launched the core platform of micro powered surgical instruments in the u.s. market. this platform includes specialty-driven handpieces, including those for spine and neurosurgery procedures, providing increased power and torque, greater speed and precision cutting. the core platform is a technological advancement on the precision and versatility offered by the tps platform. in 2002, the company launched system 5, its fifth generation product offering of its flagship heavy-duty, battery-powered surgical instruments. this line provides enhanced cutting speed and torque as well as versatility in an ergonomic handpiece system. applications for this line include total joint, trauma and sports medicine procedures. stryker instruments also produces products that are utilized in conjunction with joint replacement surgery. the advanced cement mixing system, used to mix bone cement, greatly reduces the risk that air bubbles will weaken the long-term bond between the implant and surrounding bone. interpulse is a disposable, self-contained pulsed lavage system that is used by physicians to cleanse the surgical site during total joint arthroplasty. the constavac cbc ii blood conservation system is a postoperative wound drainage and blood reinfusion device that enables joint replacement patients to receive their own blood rather than donor blood. - 9 - in 2002, the company introduced the painpump2, a disposable system that offers electronically controlled flow rates of pain medication directly to the surgical site to help manage a patient's postoperative discomfort. this innovative design allows the physician to program the pump and provides a patient-controlled analgesia (&quot;pca&quot;) option, previously unavailable to the market in a disposable pump. in 2003, stryker made product improvements to the painpump2, allowing the pump to be programmed to extend continuous peripheral nerve blockage during surgery and provide non-narcotic pain management following the procedure. in 2002, stryker acquired the dekompressor product line from pain concepts inc. the dekompressor is a single-use disposable device indicated for the percutaneous removal of disc nucleus material, offering an early, less invasive approach to mitigating back and leg pain associated with contained lumbar herniations. this important advance in lumbar disc pain management, along with stryker's offerings in percutaneous cement delivery and radiofrequency denervation, allows stryker to focus on the interventional pain management marketplace. as part of a broad surgical product portfolio, stryker works closely with hospitals and other health-care organizations to promote safety for patients and medical staff. the neptune waste management system represents stryker's leading product for fluid waste management in the operating room. the self-contained device, first introduced in 2000 and consistently improved, collects and disposes of fluid and smoke waste from surgical procedures, minimizing the need for operator intervention and therefore the risk of exposure. stryker also markets the steri-shield personal protection system, combining a helmet, hood and gown to help provide protection for operating room personnel from infection, cross-contamination and harmful micro-organisms. in 2002, the company introduced its new surgical navigation software module for fluoroscopic image-guided surgery. this software, designed for the stryker navigation system, allows surgeons to employ image-guided surgery in conjunction with intraoperative fluoroscopic images. stryker also introduced new image-guided surgery software modules and instrument sets for knee replacement, ent and spine surgeries in 2001. all three modules utilize stryker's active wireless technology, which allows the surgeon to use the surgical instrument as a computer mouse in controlling the system. endoscopic products stryker endoscopy produces and markets medical video-imaging and communications equipment and instruments for arthroscopy and general surgery. stryker endoscopy has established a position of leadership in the production of medical video technology and accessories for minimally invasive surgery, as well as communications equipment to provide local or worldwide interconnectivity. products include medical video cameras, digital documentation equipment, arthroscopes, laparoscopes, powered surgical instruments, sports medicine instrumentation and implants, radio frequency ablation systems, irrigation fluid management systems, endosuite operating room solutions and state-of-the-art equipment for telemedicine and enterprise-wide connectivity. in 2003, stryker extended its market leading 988 digital 3-chip camera by introducing a fully autoclavable model for more efficient sterilization. the 3-chip cameras continue to provide multispecialty video imaging through several product generations. in addition, the company introduced the stryker integrated delivery network, a voice-activated operating room network in 2003. also in 2003, stryker signed an exclusive license and distribution services agreement with a third party to provide distribution services for certain allograft products in the united states. allografts are used in numerous sports medicine procedures including the repair of anterior cruciate ligaments. in 2002, stryker continued its leading market share position with the endosuite operating room. an enhancement that changed the way minimally invasive surgery is documented is the stryker digital capture (&quot;sdc&quot;) pro 2 surgical dvd documentation system, which was developed to store high quality digital images to a dvd drive and distribute images on an existing hospital network. in 2002, the company advanced its position in sports medicine by launching several anterior cruciate ligament fixation devices along with a 3-millimeter glenoid humeral anchor for use in repairing rotator cuff injuries in the shoulder. - 10 - in 2001, stryker launched the 988 digital 3-chip camera, which is the first digital output video camera in the medical industry. stryker's line of rigid scopes ranges in diameter from 2.3 millimeters to 10 millimeters, containing a series of precision lenses as well as fiber optics that allow the physician to view internal anatomy with a high degree of clarity. micro implant systems stryker leibinger micro implants manufactures plating systems and related products for craniomaxillofacial and hand surgery. in 2003, the company extended the universal fixation system for craniomaxillofacial surgery with the launch of the midface system. the company anticipates an addition of a cranial/neurological system in early 2004. also in 2003, bonesource classic was introduced, representing an advance in stryker's bonesource line of products to include ha, a naturally occurring calcium phosphate material that demonstrates a high level of biocompatibility due to its resemblance to human bone. in 2002, the company launched the universal mandible plating system. this innovative system accommodates all mandibular fracture and reconstruction needs in one small, simple and easy-to-use system. the profyle modular hand plating system, launched in 2002, features simple instrumentation, low-profile implants and a wide variety of screw diameters and plate configurations. in 2001, the company launched two new fixation systems for neurosurgery, the quikdisk and the neuroclip. these innovative systems provide stable fixation following cranial surgery with less surgical time than conventional screws and plates. hospital beds and stretchers stryker medical is a leader in the specialty stretcher products segment, offering more than 30 different types of stretchers customized to fit the needs of acute care and specialty surgical care facilities. stryker also produces beds that are designed to fit the unique needs of specialty departments within the acute care environment. new in 2003, the motorized, self-propelled zoom stretcher completes the application of this innovative technology across critical care beds, medical-surgical beds and stretchers. coupled with stryker's big wheel technology for maneuverability, zoom technology produces patient-handling equipment that provides a safe and comfortable surface for patients while reducing the risk of back injury for staff. new in 2002, the go bed + medical/surgical beds feature low bed-height for safe patient ingress and exit. the go bed + also offers the optional chaperone center-of-gravity bed-exit system with zone control to help prevent patient falls. zone control is a feature that enables the caregiver to adjust the sensitivity of the bed-exit system to accommodate different patient needs. stryker has a complete line of icu beds for critical care and step-down units. the beds incorporate advanced features that facilitate patient care, such as in-bed scales that accurately weigh the patient regardless of bed position and a radiolucent surface that facilitates chest x-rays without moving the patient from the bed. stryker also offers a continuum of mattresses as an option with its frames. the company's legacy of innovation in the prehospital market continued in 2002 with the launch of the third-generation mx-pro r3 ambulance cot for use in the emergency medical services market. to facilitate patient transport up and down stairs, stryker also introduced the stairpro series of stair chairs in 2002. new in 2001 were the secure ii and go bed medical/surgical beds, which both feature low bed-height for safe patient ingress and exit. the secure ii also offers the optional chaperone center-of-gravity bed-exit system with zone control to help prevent patient falls. in 2001, stryker strengthened its reputation for durability and innovation by introducing trio, the first truly mobile surgery table; trio can be used preoperatively, during the procedure and for postoperative recovery. introduced in 2001, the cub pediatric crib is stryker's most recent product entry in the pediatric segment. cub's access and safety features are unparalleled in this segment. the m-1 ambulance cot, introduced in 2001, is the company's most advanced cot for the international market. - 11 - other other includes physical therapy services. physiotherapy associates provides physical, occupational and speech therapy services to patients recovering from orthopaedic or neurological illness and injury through a network of 374 outpatient physical therapy centers in 25 states and the district of columbia. physiotherapy associates works closely with referring physicians to design and execute rehabilitation protocols with the goal of quick recoveries for injured workers, athletes and other patients. product development most of the company's products and product improvements have been developed internally. the company maintains close working relationships with physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. new and improved products play a critical role in the company's sales growth. the company continues to place emphasis on the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand its existing product lines. the company has a decentralized research and development focus, with manufacturing locations responsible for new product development and product improvements. research, development and engineering functions at the manufacturing locations maintain relationships with distribution locations and customers to understand changes in the market and product needs. total expenditures for product research, development and engineering were $180.2 million in 2003, $141.4 million in 2002 and $142.1 million in 2001. research, development and engineering expenses represented 5.0% of sales in 2003, compared with 4.7% in 2002 and 5.5% in 2001. research, development and engineering spending was affected in 2002 by the commercial launch of the op-1 product, which occurred in various markets in the second and fourth quarters of 2001. following the launch, in 2002 stryker biotech recorded a greater proportion of its expenses as cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses, compared with 2001 when this division classified substantially all of its costs as research, development and engineering. increased spending from the company's continued focus on new product development partially offset the decreased research, development and engineering expenses related to stryker biotech. recent new product introductions in the orthopaedic implant and medsurg segments are more fully described under the caption &quot; product sales &quot; on pages 3 through 11 of this report. marketing in the united states, most of the company's products are marketed directly to more than 6,000 hospitals and to other health-care facilities and doctors by approximately 2,100 sales and marketing personnel. stryker primarily maintains separate and dedicated sales forces for each of its principal product lines to provide focus and a high level of expertise to each medical specialty served. international sales accounted for 36% of total revenues in 2003. the company's products are sold in more than 100 countries through more than 1,900 local dealers and direct sales efforts. local dealer support and direct sales are coordinated by approximately 1,900 sales and marketing personnel. stryker distributes its products through sales subsidiaries and branches with offices located in argentina, australia, austria, belgium, brazil, canada, chile, denmark, finland, france, germany, greece, hong kong, india, italy, japan, korea, mexico, the netherlands, new zealand, norway, poland, portugal, romania, singapore, south africa, spain, sweden, switzerland, taiwan and the united kingdom. stryker exports products to dealers and to customers in africa, bangladesh, china, the cis (former soviet union), cyprus, india, indonesia, ireland, korea, latin america, malaysia, the middle east, the philippines, taiwan, thailand, turkey, vietnam and yugoslavia. additional information regarding the company's international and domestic operations and sales appears in &quot; note 12 - segment and geographic data &quot; on pages 50 through 52 of this report. the company's business is generally not seasonal in nature; however, the number of orthopaedic implant surgeries is lower during the summer months. - 12 - competition the company is one of four leading competitors in the united states for orthopaedic reconstructive products. the three other leading competitors are depuy orthopaedics, inc. (a subsidiary of johnson &amp; johnson), zimmer holdings, inc., and biomet, inc. while competition abroad varies from area to area, the company believes it is also a leading player in the international markets with these same companies as its principal competitors. in the trauma implant segment, stryker is one of five leaders competing principally with synthes-stratec, smith &amp; nephew orthopaedics (a division of smith &amp; nephew plc), zimmer holdings, inc., and depuy orthopaedics, inc. in the spinal implant segment, the company is one of four leaders, including the principal competitors medtronic sofamordanek, inc. (a subsidiary of medtronic, inc.), depuyacromed, inc. (a subsidiary of johnson &amp; johnson), and synthes-stratec. the company believes that several companies are engaged in the research and development of morphogenic proteins for the repair of hard and soft tissues that would compete with the company's op-1 product. wyeth has completed human clinical trials of a recombinant bone morphogenetic protein (&quot;rhbmp-2&quot;) for repair of orthopaedic and other skeletal defects and has awarded certain distribution rights to medtronic sofamordanek for rhbmp-2 in the united states and europe. a number of companies currently provide various other therapies, including allografts, bone fillers and electrical stimulation devices for the treatment, repair or replacement of bone and joint tissue. the company believes that its op-1 product, which is approved for limited trauma indications in certain markets and is currently in clinical trials for other indications, would ultimately compete with these products and with traditional therapies, such as autograft. in the powered surgical instruments segment, stryker is one of three leaders, together with the principal domestic competitors medtronic midas rex, inc. (a subsidiary of medtronic, inc.), and linvatec, inc. (a subsidiary of conmed corporation). these companies are also competitors in the international segments, along with aesculap-werke ag (a division of b. braun melsungen ag), a large european manufacturer. in the arthroscopy segment, the company is one of four leaders, together with the principal competitors smith &amp; nephew endoscopy (a division of smith &amp; nephew plc), linvatec, inc., and arthrex, inc. in the laparoscopic imaging products segment, the company is one of four leaders, together with the principal competitors karl storz gmbh &amp; co. (a german company), acmi corporation and olympus optical co. ltd. (a japanese company). in the craniomaxillofacial segment, stryker is one of four leaders, together with the principal competitors synthes-stratec, walter lorenz surgical, inc. (a subsidiary of biomet, inc.), and kls martin l.p. in the surgical navigation segment, stryker is one of five principal competitors including medtronic surgical navigation technologies (a division of medtronic, inc.), brainlab inc. (a subsidiary of brainlab ag), aesculap ag &amp; co. kg (a division of b. braun melsungen ag), radionics, inc. (a subsidiary of tyco international ltd.), and ge medical systems navigation and visualization, inc. (a subsidiary of general electric company). the company's primary competitor in the patient-handling segment is hill-rom company, inc. (a division of hillenbrand industries, inc.). in the specialty stretcher segment, the primary competitors are hausted, inc. (a subsidiary of steris corporation), hill-rom company, inc., and midmark hospital products group (a subsidiary of ohio medical instrument company, inc.). in the ambulance cot segment, ferno-washington, inc. is the company's principal competitor. in the united states outpatient physical and occupational rehabilitation segment, the company's primary competitors are independent therapist-owned practices and hospital-based services, in addition to other national - 13 - rehabilitation companies, including healthsouth corporation and novacare rehabilitation (a division of select medical corporation). the principal factors that the company believes differentiate it in these highly competitive market segments and enable it to compete effectively are innovation, reliability, service and reputation. the company is not able to predict the effect that continuing efforts to reduce health-care expenses generally and hospital costs in particular will have on the future sales of its products or its competitive position. (see &quot; regulation and product quality .&quot;) the company believes that its competitive position in the future will depend to a large degree on its ability to develop new products and make improvements in existing products. while the company does not consider patents a major factor in its overall competitive success, patents and trademarks are significant to the extent that a product or attribute of a product represents a unique design or process. patent or trademark protection of such products restricts competitors from duplicating these unique designs and features. stryker seeks to obtain patent protection on its products whenever possible. the company currently has approximately 840 united states patents and 1,240 international patents. manufacturing and sources of supply the company's manufacturing processes consist primarily of precision machining, metal fabrication and assembly operations; the forging and investment casting of cobalt chrome; and the finishing of cobalt chrome and titanium. in addition, the company is the sole manufacturer of its op-1 product. approximately 11% of the company's cost of sales in 2003 represented finished products that were purchased complete from outside suppliers. the company also purchases parts and components, such as forgings, castings, gears, bearings, casters and electrical components, and uses outside sources for certain finishing operations, such as plating, hardening and coating of machined components and sterilization of certain products. the principal raw materials used by the company are stainless steel, aluminum, cobalt chrome and titanium alloys. in all, purchased parts and components from outside sources were approximately 33% of the total cost of sales in 2003. while the company relies on single sources for certain purchased materials and services, it believes alternate sources are available if needed. the company has not experienced any significant difficulty in the past in obtaining the materials necessary to meet its production schedules. substantially all products manufactured by the company are stocked in inventory, while certain products manufactured within the company's medsurg segment are assembled to order. regulation and product quality the medical device amendments of 1976 to the federal food, drug and cosmetic act; the safe medical devices act of 1990; and regulations issued or proposed thereunder provide for regulation by the fda of the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, including most of the company's products. the fda's quality system regulations set forth standards for the company's product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of the company's facilities by the fda. there are also certain requirements of state, local and foreign governments that must be complied with in the manufacturing and marketing of the company's products. the company believes that the manufacturing and quality control procedures it employs meet the requirements of these regulations. most of the company's new products fall into fda classifications that require notification of and review by the fda before marketing, submitted as a 510(k). the company's op-1 product requires extensive clinical testing, consisting of safety and efficacy studies, followed by a pma application for a specific surgical indication. stryker also is subject to the laws that govern the manufacture and distribution of medical devices of each country in which the company manufactures or sells products. the member states of the european union (&quot;eu&quot;) have adopted the european medical device directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all eu member countries. these regulations require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in eu member countries to obtain community european (&quot;ce&quot;) marks for their products. stryker has authorization to apply the ce mark to its hip, knee, upper extremity, spinal implant and trauma products, and to - 14 - its endoscopy, instruments, leibinger micro implants and medical division products. the company's op-1 product has been considered a drug under the regulations for europe, australia and japan. the company's physiotherapy associates, inc. subsidiary is subject to various federal and state regulations regarding the provision of physical therapy services. the primary entities administering these regulations are the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services, champus, state workers compensation agencies, state insurance commissioners and state licensing agencies. government agencies, legislative bodies and private-sector initiatives to limit the growth of health-care costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are continuing in markets where the company does business. it is impossible to predict at this time the long-term impact of such cost-containment measures on the company's future business. employees at december 31, 2003, the company had 14,762 employees worldwide, including 5,355 involved in manufacturing, warehousing and distribution operations; 3,991 in marketing and sales; 848 in research, development and engineering; 3,115 providing physical, occupational and speech therapy; and the balance in general management and administration. approximately 1,020 international employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are updated annually. the company believes that its employee relations are satisfactory. item 2. properties the company has the following properties: square owned/ location segment use feet leased mahwah, new jersey orthopaedic implants manufacturing of reconstructive implants 460,000 owned limerick, ireland orthopaedic implants manufacturing of reconstructive implants and op-1 130,000 owned herouville, france orthopaedic implants manufacturing of reconstructive implants 130,000 owned kiel, germany orthopaedic implants manufacturing of trauma implants 144,000 owned selzach, switzerland orthopaedic implants manufacturing of trauma implants 78,000 owned bordeaux, france orthopaedic implants manufacturing of spinal implants 74,000 owned carrigtwohill, ireland orthopaedic implants and medsurg manufacturing of reconstructive implants and powered surgical instruments 154,000 owned hopkinton, massachusetts orthopaedic implants manufacturing of op-1 69,000 leased west lebanon, new hampshire orthopaedic implants manufacturing of op-1 106,000 owned portage, michigan medsurg manufacturing of powered surgical instruments and patient-handling and emergency medical equipment 401,000 owned arroyo, puerto rico medsurg manufacturing of powered surgical instruments and endoscopic products 220,000 leased kalamazoo, michigan medsurg manufacturing of patient-handling equipment 90,000 owned l'islet, canada medsurg manufacturing of patient-handling equipment 88,000 owned - 15 - square owned/ location segment use feet leased san jose, california medsurg manufacturing of endoscopic products 165,000 leased poway, california medsurg manufacturing of endoscopic products 36,000 leased freiburg, germany medsurg manufacturing of micro implants and surgical navigation systems 88,000 owned stetten, germany medsurg manufacturing of micro implants 29,000 owned kalamazoo, michigan other corporate headquarters 35,000 leased various other physical therapy clinics 1,299,000 leased in addition to the above, the company maintains administrative and sales offices and warehousing and distribution facilities in various countries, including the united states, argentina, australia, austria, belgium, brazil, canada, chile, denmark, finland, france, germany, greece, hong kong, india, italy, japan, korea, mexico, the netherlands, new zealand, norway, poland, portugal, romania, singapore, south africa, spain, sweden, switzerland and the united kingdom. as of december 31, 2003, the company also owned property in rutherford, new jersey, and leased property in allendale, new jersey, and geneva, switzerland, that was previously used for manufacturing, warehousing, distribution and administrative offices for its orthopaedic implants segment. item 3. legal proceedings the company is a defendant in various proceedings, legal actions and claims arising in the normal course of business, including proceedings related to product, labor and other matters. such matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable with assurance. the company records amounts for losses that are deemed to be probable and subject to reasonable estimate. however, the company does not anticipate material losses as a result of these proceedings beyond amounts already provided for. item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders not applicable. executive officers certain information with respect to the executive officers of the company is set forth in item 10 of this report. part ii item 5. market for the registrant's common equity and related stockholder matters the company's common stock is traded on the new york stock exchange under the symbol syk. quarterly stock prices appear under the caption &quot; summary of quarterly data (unaudited) &quot; on page 54 of this report and dividend information for the years ended december 31, 2003 and 2002 under the caption &quot; summary of operations &quot; in item 6 below. the company's board of directors considers a year-end cash dividend annually at its december meeting. the company issued 37,818 shares of common stock in 2003 as performance incentive awards to certain employees. the shares were not registered under the securities act of 1933 based on the conclusion that the awards would not be events of sale within the meaning of section 2(a)(3) of the act. on february 27, 2004, there were 3,195 stockholders of record of the company's common stock. - 16 - item 6. selected financial data the financial information for each of the five years in the period ended december 31, 2002 is set forth below (dollars in millions, except per share amounts): summary of operations 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 net sales $3,625.3 $3,011.6 $2,602.3 $2,289.4 $2,103.7 cost of sales: before inventory step-up 1,312.4 1,111.2 963.8 815.2 791.5 inventory step-up -- -- -- -- 198.2 total cost of sales 1,312,4 1,111.2 963.8 815.2 989.7 gross profit 2,312.9 1,900.4 1,638.5 1,474.2 1,114.0 research, development and engineering expenses 180.2 141.4 142.1 122.2 105.2 selling, general and administrative expenses 1,416.0 1,165.4 985.4 885.6 808.4 restructuring and acquisition-related charges (credits) -- 17.2 0.6 (1.0) 18.9 1,596.2 1,324.0 1,128.1 1,006.8 932.5 other expense (income) 64.2 69.7 104.7 132.5 151.7 earnings before income taxes and extraordinary item 652.5 506.7 405.7 334.9 29.8 income taxes 199.0 161.1 133.9 113.9 10.4 earnings before extraordinary item 453.5 345.6 271.8 221.0 19.4 extraordinary loss, net of income taxes -- -- (4.8) -- -- net earnings $453.5 $345.6 $267.0 $221.0 $19.4 ==== ==== ==== ==== ==== net earnings per share of common stock (a): basic $2.28 $1.75 $1.38 (b) $1.13 $ .10 diluted $2.23 $1.70 $1.34 (b) $1.10 $ .10 dividend per share of common stock (a) $.14 $.12 $.10 $.08 $ .065 average number of shares outstanding - in millions (a): basic 198.9 197.5 196.3 195.1 193.8 diluted 203.4 203.8 203.0 201.1 198.6 (a) adjusted for the two-for-one stock split effective may 12, 2000. (b) excludes net extraordinary loss per share of $.02 basic and $.02 diluted. - 17 - financial and statistical data 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 cash and marketable securities 65.9 37.8 50.1 54.0 83.5 working capital 547.1 443.8 459.7 379.6 440.8 current ratio 1.6 1.6 1.9 1.6 1.7 property, plant and equipment - net 604.7 519.2 444.0 378.1 391.5 capital expenditures 144.5 139.0 161.9 80.7 76.4 depreciation and amortization 229.7 186.1 172.0 168.6 162.8 total assets 3,159.1 2,815.5 2,423.6 2,430.8 2,580.5 long-term debt, including current maturities 26.1 501.7 722.6 1,012.5 1,287.4 stockholders' equity 2,154.8 1,498.2 1,056.2 854.9 671.5 return on average equity 24.8% 27.1% 27.9% 29.0% 2.9% net cash provided by operating activities 648.5 516.2 473.2 331.8 284.0 number of stockholders of record 3,084 2,983 2,886 2,904 2,929 number of employees 14,762 14,045 12,839 12,084 10,925 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive level overview stryker corporation (the &quot;company&quot; or &quot;stryker&quot;) is a leader in the worldwide orthopaedic market and is one of the world's largest medical device companies. stryker delivers results through a wide range of capabilities including joint replacements, trauma, spine and micro implant systems, orthobiologics, powered surgical instruments, surgical navigation systems and endoscopic products as well as patient handling and emergency medical equipment. stryker also provides outpatient physical therapy services in the united states. the company segregates its operations into two reportable business segments: orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment. the orthopaedic implants segment sells orthopaedic reconstructive (hip, knee and shoulder), trauma and spinal implants, bone cement and the bone growth factor osteogenic protein-1 (op-1). the medsurg equipment segment sells powered surgical instruments, endoscopic products, hospital beds and stretchers and micro implant and surgical navigation systems. other includes physical therapy services and corporate administration, interest expense and interest income. domestic sales accounted for 64% of total revenues in 2003. most of the company's products are marketed directly to more than 6,000 hospitals and to doctors and other health-care facilities by approximately 2,100 sales and marketing personnel in the united states. stryker primarily maintains separate and dedicated sales forces for each of its principal product lines to provide focus and a high level of expertise to each medical specialty served. international sales accounted for 36% of total revenues in 2003. the company's products are sold in more than 100 countries through more than 1,900 local dealers and direct sales efforts. local dealer support and direct sales are coordinated by approximately 1,900 sales and marketing personnel. stryker distributes its products through sales subsidiaries and branches with offices located in argentina, australia, austria, belgium, brazil, canada, chile, denmark, finland, france, germany, greece, hong kong, india, italy, japan, korea, mexico, the netherlands, new zealand, norway, poland, portugal, romania, singapore, south africa, spain, sweden, switzerland, taiwan and the united kingdom. stryker exports products to dealers and to customers in africa, bangladesh, china, the cis (former soviet union), cyprus, india, indonesia, ireland, korea, latin america, malaysia, the middle east, philippines, taiwan, thailand, turkey, vietnam and yugoslavia. the company's business is generally not seasonal in nature; however, the number of orthopaedic implant surgeries is lower during the summer months. - 18 - outlook for 2004 the company's outlook for 2004 continues to be very optimistic regarding the markets it participates in and the underlying growth rates in orthopaedic procedures. the company expects diluted net earnings per share for 2004 to approximate $2.68. the financial expectations for 2004 include net sales growth of approximately 16% as a result of strong growth in shipments of orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment, favorable foreign currency exchange rate movements and higher revenue from physical therapy services. if foreign currency exchange rates hold at january 27, 2004 levels, the company anticipates a favorable impact on net sales in the first quarter and full year of 2004 of approximately $45 million and $145 million, respectively. as the company pays down outstanding borrowings under its unsecured credit facilities and reduces the $150.0 million outstanding under its accounts receivable securitization facility, the company expects to generate cash earnings in excess of its needs to fund future working capital requirements. the company anticipates investing in future business growth, including business and product line acquisitions to supplement its current product offerings, instrumentation in support of new product launches and future building expansions, including manufacturing facility expansions for certain divisions within its medsurg segment. results of operations the table below outlines the components of the consolidated statements of earnings as a percentage of net sales and the year-to-year percentage change in dollar amounts: percentage of net sales percentage change 2003 2002 2001 2003/2002 2002/2001 net sales 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 20% 16% cost of sales 36.2 36.9 37.0 18 15 gross profit 63.8 63.1 63.0 22 16 research, development and engineering expenses 5.0 4.7 5.5 27 -- selling, general and administrative expenses 39.1 38.7 37.9 22 18 restructuring and acquisition-related charges -- 0.6 -- (100) -- other expense (income) 1.8 2.3 4.0 (8) (33) earnings before income taxes and extraordinary item 18.0 16.8 15.6 29 25 income taxes 5.5 5.3 5.1 24 20 earnings before extraordinary item 12.5 11.5 10.4 31 27 extraordinary loss, net of income taxes -- -- (0.2) -- -- net earnings 12.5% 11.5% 10.3% 31 29 ==== ==== ==== - 19 - the table below sets forth domestic/international and product line sales information: net sales (in millions) percentage change 2003 2002 2001 2003/2002 2002/2001 domestic/international sales domestic $2,333.4 $1,973.7 $1,688.4 18% 17% international 1,291.9 1,037.9 913.9 24 14 total net sales $3,625.3 $3,011.6 $2,602.3 20 16 ====== ====== ====== product line sales orthopaedic implants $2,093.0 $1,704.8 $1,447.2 23 18 medsurg equipment 1,309.3 1,105.3 974.2 18 13 physical therapy services 223.0 201.5 180.9 11 11 total net sales $3,625.3 $3,011.6 $2,602.3 20 16 ====== ====== ====== 2003 compared with 2002 stryker corporation's net sales increased 20% in 2003 to $3,625.3 million from $3,011.6 million in 2002. net sales grew by 12% as a result of increased unit volume and changes in product mix; 2% related to higher selling prices; 5% due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates; and 1% as a result of acquired businesses. domestic sales were $2,333.4 million for 2003, representing an increase of 18% as a result of strong shipments of orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment and higher revenue from physical therapy services. international sales were $1,291.9 million for 2003, representing an increase of 24% as a result of higher shipments of orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment. the impact of foreign currency comparisons to the dollar value of international sales was favorable by $145.9 million for 2003. excluding the impact of foreign currency, international sales increased 10% in 2003. worldwide sales of orthopaedic implants were $2,093.0 million for 2003, representing an increase of 23% as a result of higher shipments of reconstructive, trauma and spinal implants. excluding the impact of foreign currency, sales of orthopaedic implants increased 16% for the year. worldwide sales of medsurg equipment were $1,309.3 million for 2003, representing an increase of 18% as a result of higher shipments of powered surgical instruments, endoscopic products, hospital beds and stretchers and micro implant and surgical navigation systems. excluding the impact of foreign currency, sales of medsurg equipment increased 15% for the year. physical therapy services revenues were $223.0 million for 2003, representing an increase of 11% as a result of new physical therapy centers and higher revenues from existing centers. cost of sales represented 36.2% of sales compared with 36.9% in 2002. the lower cost of sales percentage in 2003 is due to the faster sales growth in the higher margin orthopaedic implants business and an increase in the absorption of fixed manufacturing costs caused by increased production at certain of the company's manufacturing plants to meet current demand. research, development and engineering expenses represented 5.0% of sales in 2003 compared to 4.7% in 2002. the higher spending level is the result of final development spending in advance of the company's product launches in 2003 and continued focus on new product development for anticipated future product launches. new product introductions in 2003 included the trident ceramic acetabular system, simplex p with tobramycin bone cement and the core platform of micro powered surgical instruments in the united states market and the system 5 heavy-duty, battery-powered surgical instruments in europe. selling, general and administrative expenses increased 22% in 2003 and represented 39.1% of sales compared with 38.7% in 2002. the 22% increase in selling, general and administrative expenses is partially due to an increase in sales commission expense as a result of the 20% increase in net sales in 2003. in addition, the company incurred a $14.0 million increase in insurance costs during 2003 resulting from increased premiums - 20 - charged by third-party insurers and a wholly owned captive insurance company established in 2003 as more fully described in other matters. the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales in 2003 is primarily due to higher distribution costs associated with the increased sales mix of orthopaedic implants, increased amortization of loaner instrument sets, the increase in insurance costs and higher advertising costs associated with the company's previously announced patient education campaign. the company recognized charges of $17.2 million ($11.5 million net of income taxes) related to restructuring and acquisition-related items in the third quarter of 2002. the 2002 restructuring and acquisition-related items included a charge of $21.0 million ($14.1 million net of income taxes) for employment-related costs to close the company's rutherford, new jersey, manufacturing facility, partially offset by a credit of $3.8 million ($2.6 million net of income taxes) to reverse certain howmedica acquisition-related costs to reflect actual final payments required. see the following comparison of 2002 results to 2001 results for additional information. interest expense declined to $22.6 million in 2003 from $40.3 million in 2002, primarily as a result of lower outstanding debt balances. the increase in intangibles amortization to $45.4 million in 2003 from $28.9 million in 2002 is primarily the result of the increased intangible assets recorded as a result of the july 1, 2002 acquisition of the surgical dynamics inc. spinal implant business (sdi) from tyco international ltd. as more fully described in other matters. in addition, the company recorded a $6.5 million charge related to a trademark impairment resulting from a branding initiative adopted by the company in the fourth quarter of 2003. the branding initiative is intended to improve the company's customers' and other stakeholders' overall awareness of stryker's capabilities. the charge is included in intangibles amortization in the consolidated statements of earnings. other income was $3.8 million in 2003, compared with $0.5 million of other expense in 2002 due to foreign currency transaction gains in the current year compared to losses in the prior year and higher interest income. the effective income tax rate was 30.5% in 2003 compared with 31.8% in 2002. the company's effective income tax rate for 2003 was reduced primarily as a result of increased manufacturing in lower tax jurisdictions such as ireland and puerto rico. net earnings increased 31% to $453.5 million from $345.6 million in 2002; basic net earnings per share increased 30% to $2.28 in 2003 from $1.75 in 2002; and diluted net earnings per share increased 31% to $2.23 in 2003 from $1.70 in 2002. excluding the impact of the restructuring and acquisition-related items for the year ended december 31, 2002 adjusted net earnings increased 27% from $357.1 million in 2002 to $453.5 million in 2003. adjusted basic net earnings per share increased 26% from $1.81 in 2002 to $2.28 in 2003. adjusted diluted net earnings per share increased 27% from $1.75 in 2002 to $2.23 in 2003. these adjusted non-gaap financial measures do not replace the presentation of the company's gaap financial results. the company has provided this supplemental non-gaap information because it provides meaningful information regarding the company's results on a consistent and comparable basis for the periods presented. management uses this non-gaap financial information for reviewing the operating results of its business segments and for analyzing potential future business trends in connection with its budget process. in addition, the company believes investors utilize this information to evaluate period-to-period results and to understand potential future operating results. the company believes that the economic nature of the restructuring charge and the acquisition-related credit are sufficiently unique that similar items have not been recorded in the prior two fiscal years nor are they reasonably likely to recur within two years. in addition, the company reasonably believes that it is probable that the financial impact of each of these individual items will become insignificant by the end of 2004. the company encourages investors and other users of these financial statements to review its consolidated financial statements and other publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely solely on any single financial measure. the reconciliations of these non-gaap financial measures are as follows (in millions): - 21 - 2003 2002 % change reported net earnings $453.5 $345.6 31% restructuring charge -- 14.1 -- acquisition-related credit -- (2.6) -- adjusted net earnings $453.5 $357.1 27 ==== ==== basic net earnings per share: reported basic net earnings per share $2.28 $1.75 30 restructuring charge -- $.07 -- acquisition-related credit -- ($.01) -- adjusted basic net earnings per share $2.28 $1.81 26 diluted net earnings per share: reported diluted net earnings per share $2.23 $1.70 31 restructuring charge -- $.07 -- acquisition-related credit -- ($.01) -- adjusted diluted net earnings per share $2.23 $1.75 27 2002 compared with 2001 stryker corporation's net sales increased 16% in 2002 to $3,011.6 million from $2,602.3 million in 2001. net sales grew by 11% as a result of increased unit volume and changes in product mix; 3% related to higher selling prices; and 2% as a result of acquired businesses. domestic sales were $1,973.7 million for 2002, representing an increase of 17% as a result of strong shipments of orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment and higher revenue from physical therapy services. the july 1, 2002, acquisition of sdi added $22.8 million to domestic sales for 2002. international sales were $1,037.9 million for 2002, representing an increase of 14% as a result of higher shipments of orthopaedic implants and medsurg equipment. the acquisition of sdi added $2.5 million to international sales for 2002. the impact of foreign currency comparisons to the dollar value of international sales was favorable by $13.7 million for 2002. excluding the impact of foreign currency, international sales increased 12% in 2002. worldwide sales of orthopaedic implants were $1,704.8 million for 2002, representing an increase of 18% as a result of higher shipments of reconstructive, trauma and spinal implants. excluding the impact of foreign currency, sales of orthopaedic implants increased 17% for the year. worldwide sales of medsurg equipment were $1,105.3 million for 2002, representing an increase of 13% as a result of higher shipments of powered surgical instruments, endoscopic products, hospital beds and stretchers and micro implant and surgical navigation systems. excluding the impact of foreign currency, sales of medsurg equipment increased 13% for the year. physical therapy services revenues were $201.5 million for 2002, representing an increase of 11% as a result of new physical therapy centers and higher revenues from existing centers. cost of sales represented 36.9% of sales compared with 37.0% in 2001. the slightly lower cost of sales percentage in 2002 was due to an increase in the absorption of fixed manufacturing costs caused by increased production at certain of the company's manufacturing plants to meet current demand and higher sales growth for the higher margin orthopaedic implant products, offset partially by higher product obsolescence resulting from product launches. while research, development and engineering expenses in 2002 were consistent with prior year amounts, they decreased to 4.7% of sales from 5.5% in 2001. research, development and engineering spending was affected in 2002 by the commercial launch of op-1, which occurred in various markets in the second and fourth quarters of 2001. following the launch, in 2002 stryker biotech recorded a portion of its expenses as cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses, compared with 2001, when this division classified substantially all of its costs as research, development and engineering. increased spending from the company's continued focus on new product development partially offset the decreased research, development and engineering expenses related to stryker biotech. new product introductions in 2002 included scorpioflex knee - 22 - for the united states market, super secur-fit plus hip for the japanese market, trident ceramic acetabular system in canada, xia ii spinal system, system 5 heavy-duty, battery-powered surgical instruments, tps saber drill, sdc pro 2 surgical dvd documentation system, painpump2, precision system for percutaneous cement delivery, fluoroscopic software module for the stryker navigation system and go bed +. selling, general and administrative expenses increased 18% in 2002 and represented 38.7% of sales compared with 37.9% in 2001. the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was partially due to an increase in sales commission expense as a result of the 16% increase in net sales in 2002. in addition, the company incurred an $8.9 million increase in insurance costs during 2002. the change in classification of certain stryker biotech expenses, as discussed above, also contributed to the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses. discount expense related to the accounts receivable securitization facility, which was included in selling, general and administrative expenses, declined to $2.7 million in 2002 from $5.8 million in 2001 as a result of lower discount rates. the company recognized charges of $17.2 million ($11.5 million net of income taxes) related to restructuring and acquisition-related items in the third quarter of 2002. the 2002 restructuring and acquisition-related items included a charge of $21.0 million ($14.1 million net of income taxes) for employment-related costs to close the company's rutherford, new jersey, manufacturing facility, partially offset by a credit of $3.8 million ($2.6 million net of income taxes) to reverse certain howmedica acquisition-related costs to reflect actual final payments required. the $21.0 million restructuring charge related primarily to a shutdown agreement reached between the company and the employee bargaining unit to close the orthopaedics division implant manufacturing facility in rutherford, new jersey, which was ratified by the members of the i.u.e.-cwa local 485 on august 23, 2002. the charge covered employment-related severance costs for 353 employees. the rutherford facility was closed during 2003 with final severance payments to be made by the end of 2005. the orthopaedics division has completed the transition of production to its facilities in mahwah, new jersey, as well as cork and limerick, ireland. in the fourth quarter of 2001, the company recognized charges of $0.6 million related to various restructuring and acquisition-related events. the 2001 restructuring and acquisition-related charges included $2.4 million of charges, partially offset by the reversal of prior year restructuring accruals totaling $1.8 million. interest expense declined to $40.3 million in 2002 from $67.9 million in 2001, primarily as a result of lower outstanding debt balances. the decrease in intangibles amortization to $28.9 million in 2002 from $38.4 million in 2001 was primarily the result of the company's adoption of financial accounting standards board (fasb) statement no. 142, goodwill and other intangible assets , which prohibits the amortization of goodwill. if the nonamortization provisions of statement no. 142 had been applied in the prior year, amortization expense for 2001 would have been reduced by $18.1 million and net earnings would have increased by $12.1 million ($.06 per diluted share). other expense was $0.5 million in 2002, compared with $1.6 million of other income in 2001 due to foreign currency transaction losses in the current year versus gains in the prior year, partially offset by higher interest income. the effective income tax rate was 31.8% in 2002 compared with 33.0% in 2001. the company's effective income tax rate for 2002 was reduced from 33.0% to 31.8% in the fourth quarter of 2002, thereby reducing income tax expense by $6.1 million, primarily as a result of increased manufacturing in lower tax jurisdictions such as ireland and puerto rico. earnings before extraordinary item increased 27% to $345.6 million from $271.8 million in 2001; basic earnings per share before extraordinary item increased 27% to $1.75 in 2002 from $1.38 in 2001; and diluted earnings per share before extraordinary item increased 27% to $1.70 in 2002 from $1.34 in 2001. in december 2001, the company refinanced and prepaid the remaining $642.7 million outstanding under the $1,650.0 million senior secured credit facilities established in 1998 in connection with the howmedica acquisition. the prepayment of the 1998 facilities resulted in the write-off in 2001 of related unamortized deferred loan costs of $7.1 million, which was reflected as an extraordinary loss of $4.8 million (net of income taxes of $2.3 million; $.02 per basic and diluted share). net earnings were $345.6 million (basic and diluted net earnings per share of $1.75 and $1.70, respectively) compared with $267.0 million (basic and diluted net earnings per share of $1.36 and $1.32, respectively) in 2001. - 23 - excluding the impact of the restructuring and acquisition-related items on 2002 and 2001 and the impact of the change in goodwill amortization and the extraordinary item on 2001, adjusted net earnings in 2002 were $357.1 million, representing a 26% increase over adjusted net earnings of $284.3 million in 2001. adjusted basic net earnings per share increased 25% to $1.81 compared with $1.45 in 2001. adjusted diluted net earnings per share increased 25% to $1.75 compared with $1.40 in 2001. these adjusted non-gaap financial measures do not replace the presentation of the company's gaap financial results. the company has provided this supplemental non-gaap information because it provides meaningful information regarding the company's results on a consistent and comparable basis for the periods presented. management uses this non-gaap financial information for reviewing the operating results of its business segments and for analyzing potential future business trends in connection with its budget process. in addition, the company believes investors utilize this information to evaluate period-to-period results and to understand potential future operating results. the company believes that the economic nature of the restructuring charge, the acquisition-related items and extraordinary loss are sufficiently unique that similar items have not been recorded in the prior two fiscal years nor are they reasonably likely to recur within two years. in addition, the company reasonably believes that it is probable that the financial impact of each of these individual items will become insignificant by the end of 2004. the company encourages investors and other users of these financial statements to review its consolidated financial statements and other publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely solely on any single financial measure. the reconciliations of these non-gaap financial measures are as follows (in millions): 2002 2001 % change reported net earnings $345.6 $267.0 29% restructuring charge/(credit) 14.1 (0.2) -- acquisition-related charge/(credit) (2.6) 0.6 -- goodwill and assembled workforce amortization -- 12.1 -- extraordinary loss -- 4.8 -- adjusted net earnings $357.1 $284.3 26 ==== ==== basic net earnings per share: reported basic net earnings per share $1.75 $1.36 29 restructuring charge/(credit) $.07 -- -- acquisition-related charge/(credit) ($.01) -- -- goodwill and assembled workforce amortization -- $.06 -- extraordinary loss -- $.02 -- adjusted basic net earnings per share $1.81 $1.45 25 diluted net earnings per share: reported diluted net earnings per share $1.70 $1.32 29 restructuring charge/(credit) $.07 -- -- acquisition-related charge/(credit) ($.01) -- -- goodwill and assembled workforce amortization -- $.06 -- extraordinary loss -- $.02 -- adjusted diluted net earnings per share $1.75 $1.40 25 liquidity and capital resources the company's working capital at december 31, 2003 increased $103.3 million to $547.1 million from $443.8 million at december 31, 2002, including the effect of the proceeds from the sale of an additional $20.0 million of accounts receivable pursuant to the accounts receivable securitization facility, that were used to reduce outstanding borrowings under the company's unsecured credit facilities. the increase in working capital resulted from growth in the company's overall business and the use of strong earnings to fund increases in accounts receivable, inventory and prepaid expenses and to pay current liabilities due in 2003, primarily for - 24 - income taxes and restructuring and acquisition-related liabilities. trade accounts payable and other accrued liabilities increased in 2003 as a result of the growth in the business, higher obligations for third-party sales agent commissions, third-party royalties, non-income based taxes, increased reserves for legal claims and assessments and increases in other accrued liabilities. accounts receivable days sales outstanding, excluding the effect of $150.0 million outstanding under the company's $200.0 million accounts receivable securitization facility, of 58 days was unchanged at december 31, 2003 compared to december 31, 2002. days sales in inventory decreased 6 days to 120 days at december 31, 2003 from 126 days at december 31, 2002. the lower days sales in inventory is primarily the result of improved inventory management and higher provisions for product obsolescence as a result of product launches. the company generated cash of $648.5 million from operations in 2003 compared with $516.2 million in 2002. the generation of cash in 2003 is the result of strong cash earnings (net earnings plus noncash adjustments) and increases in accounts payable and accrued expenses. these items were partially offset by increases in deferred charges and accounts receivable from increased sales and payments of $15.5 million attributable to restructuring and acquisition-related liabilities and acquisition purchase liabilities. in 2003, the company used cash of $10.8 million for business and product line acquisitions, $144.5 million for capital expenditures and $23.7 million for the payment of dividends. in addition to the borrowings used to fund business and product line acquisitions, the company borrowed an additional $664.5 million under its existing credit facilities to fund cash flow needs during 2003 and made repayments of $1,144.6 million against the credit facilities. total borrowings declined by $475.6 million after adjusting for the effect of foreign currency translation. in 2003, the company used cash of $144.5 million for capital expenditures, including $27.7 million related to the construction of phase ii of the company's mahwah, new jersey, manufacturing and distribution facility. in addition, the company spent $4.6 million for the expansion of the company's manufacturing facility in west lebanon, new hampshire, and $3.8 million for the expansion of the company's cork, ireland, manufacturing facility. the company had $65.9 million in cash and cash equivalents at december 31, 2003. the company also had outstanding borrowings totaling $26.1 million at that date. current maturities of long-term debt at december 31, 2003 are $7.3 million and will increase to $15.6 million in 2006. the company's $750.0 million five-year, nonamortizing, revolving credit agreement expires in december 2006. as a result of current cash and outstanding debt balances, the company decided not to renew its previously existing $250.0 million 364-day revolving credit agreement which expired in december 2003. the company believes its cash on hand, as well as anticipated cash flows from operations, will be sufficient to fund future operating capital requirements, future manufacturing facility construction and other capital expenditures, future business and product line acquisitions and required debt repayments. should additional funds be required, the company had $802.1 million of additional borrowing capacity available under all of its existing credit facilities and an additional $50.0 million of eligible accounts receivable which could be sold through its accounts receivable securitization facility at december 31, 2003. the company's future contractual obligations for agreements with initial terms greater than one year, including agreements to purchase materials in the normal course of business, are summarized as follows (in millions): payment period 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 thereafter long-term debt $7.3 $0.0 $15.6 $0.0 $0.0 $3.2 operating leases 43.7 34.8 26.4 20.5 16.9 49.3 unconditional purchase obligations 162.5 0.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 - 25 - the company's additional borrowing capacity, along with the expected expiration period of the commitment, are summarized as follows (in millions): amount of commitment total expiration per period amount less than in excess of committed 1 year 1 year lines of credit $785.3 $68.9 $716.4 standby letters of credit 16.8 4.5 12.3 $802.1 $73.4 $728.7 critical accounting policies the preparation of the company's consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. on an ongoing basis, management evaluates these estimates. estimates are based on historical experience, when available, and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. management believes that an understanding of the following critical accounting policies is important in obtaining an overall understanding of the consolidated financial statements. allowance for doubtful accounts the company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses in the collection of accounts receivable. the company makes estimates regarding the future ability of its customers to make required payments based on historical credit experience and expected future trends. if actual customer financial conditions are less favorable than projected by management, additional accounts receivable write-offs may be necessary, which could unfavorably affect future operating results. inventory reserves the company maintains reserves for excess and obsolete inventory resulting from the potential inability to sell its products at prices in excess of current carrying costs. the markets in which the company operates are highly competitive, with new products and surgical procedures introduced on an ongoing basis. such marketplace changes may cause the company's products to become obsolete. the company makes estimates regarding the future recoverability of the costs of these products and records a provision for excess and obsolete inventories based on historical experience, expiration of sterilization dates and expected future trends. if actual product life cycles, product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less favorable than projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required, which could unfavorably affect future operating results. income taxes the company operates in multiple tax jurisdictions both inside and outside the united states. accordingly, management must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions. tax audits associated with the allocation of this income and other complex issues may require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in income tax adjustments if changes to the income allocation are required between jurisdictions with different tax rates. because tax adjustments in certain jurisdictions can be significant, the - 26 - company records accruals representing management's best estimate of the probable resolution of these matters. to the extent additional information becomes available, such accruals are adjusted to reflect the revised estimated probable outcome. other matters the company distributes its products throughout the world. as a result, the company's financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in foreign markets. the company's operating results are primarily exposed to changes in exchange rates among the united states dollar and the japanese yen and european currencies, in particular the euro and the british pound. when the united states dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the dollar value of sales denominated in foreign currencies increases. when the united states dollar strengthens, the opposite situation occurs. the company manufactures its products in the united states, france, germany, ireland, switzerland, canada and puerto rico and incurs the costs to manufacture in the applicable local currencies. this worldwide deployment of factories serves to partially mitigate the impact of currency exchange rate changes on the company's cost of sales. the company follows the provisions of fasb statement no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities , as amended by statements no. 137 and no. 138, in accounting for its derivative financial instruments. the statements require the company to recognize all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. derivatives that are not documented and accounted for as hedges must be adjusted to fair value through earnings. if a derivative is a hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the derivative are either offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in accumulated other comprehensive gain (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. the company enters into forward currency exchange contracts to mitigate the impact of currency fluctuations on transactions denominated in nonfunctional currencies, thereby limiting risk to the company that would otherwise result from changes in exchange rates. these nonfunctional currency exposures principally relate to intercompany payables arising from intercompany purchases of manufactured products. the periods of the forward currency exchange contracts correspond to the periods of the exposed transactions, with realized gains and losses included in the measurement and recording of transactions denominated in the nonfunctional currencies. at december 31, 2003, the company had outstanding forward currency exchange contracts to purchase $123.9 million and sell $154.9 million of various currencies (principally united states dollars and euros) with maturities ranging principally from 30 to 180 days. at december 31, 2002, the company had outstanding forward currency exchange contracts to purchase $82.0 million and sell $97.7 million of various currencies (principally united states dollars and euros) with maturities ranging principally from 30 to 180 days. the estimated fair value of forward currency exchange contracts represents the measurement of the contracts at month-end spot rates as adjusted by current forward points. a hypothetical 10% change in exchange rates for these currencies would change the 2003 fair value by approximately $2.1 million and would have changed the 2002 fair value by approximately $0.5 million. at december 31, 2003, the company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on its outstanding forward currency exchange contracts but does not anticipate nonperformance by any of the counterparties. the company is exposed to market risk for changes in interest rates as a result of its borrowings and the accounts receivable securitization facility. the company managed a portion of its interest rate risk on its borrowings through interest rate swap agreements, which had fixed the base rate on a $250.0 million notional amount of the variable-rate borrowings during 2003. these interest rate swap agreements expired during 2003. if market interest rates for similar borrowings had averaged 1% more than they did in 2003, the company's 2003 - 27 - interest expense, after considering the effects of its interest rate swaps, would have increased, and earnings before income taxes would have decreased, by $0.7 million. by comparison, if market interest rates had averaged 1% less than they did during 2003, the company's 2003 interest expense, after considering the effects of its interest rate swaps, would have decreased, and earnings before income taxes would have increased, by $0.7 million. if market interest rates for the accounts receivable securitization facility had averaged 1% more than they did in 2003, the company's discount expense would have increased, and earnings before income taxes would have decreased, by $1.7 million. by comparison, if market interest rates had averaged 1% less than they did in 2003, the company's discount expense would have decreased, and earnings before income taxes would have increased, by $1.7 million. these amounts are determined by considering the impact of hypothetical interest rates on the company's borrowing cost, interest rate swap agreements and accounts receivable securitization facility without any actions by management to mitigate its exposure to such changes. the company's interest rate swap agreements, which matured over various terms ranging from september 2003 through december 2003, effectively converted a portion of its variable-rate borrowings to a fixed-rate basis, thus reducing the impact of changes in interest rates on interest expense. the company designated the interest rate swap agreements as cash flow hedges. gains of $9.2 million and $9.3 million and a loss of $22.0 million attributable to changes in the fair value of interest rate swap agreements were recorded as components of accumulated other comprehensive gain (loss) in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. interest rate differentials paid or received as a result of interest rate swaps were recognized as an adjustment of interest expense related to the designated borrowings. the company has used yen-denominated floating-rate borrowings to protect a portion of the value of its investment in its subsidiary in japan. realized and unrealized gains and losses from this hedge were not included in the consolidated statements of earnings, but were recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments within accumulated other comprehensive gain (loss) in stockholders' equity. net gains (losses) of ($2.1) million, ($1.6) million and $5.8 million attributable to the yen-denominated floating-rate borrowings hedge were recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. the company has certain investments in net assets in international locations that are not hedged. these investments are subject to translation gains and losses due to changes in foreign currencies. for the year ended december 31, 2003, the strengthening of foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar increased the value of these investments in net assets by $176.3 million. this gain eliminated the previously recorded cumulative loss of $68.6 million that had been deferred and recorded as a separate component of stockholders' equity at december 31, 2002. on july 1, 2002, the company acquired sdi from tyco international ltd., for $135.0 million in cash. the acquisition expanded the company's spinal product line by adding interbody spinal cages for the united states market as well as other thoracolumbar and cervical spinal fixation devices. the acquisition was funded using existing credit facilities. the acquisition of sdi was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. the results of operations for the acquired business are included in the company's consolidated financial statements beginning july 1, 2002. the company's pro forma consolidated financial results in 2002 did not differ significantly as a result of the sdi acquisition. the company is partially self-insured for product liability claims. in 2003, the company established a wholly owned captive insurance company in the u.s. to manage its self-insured retention limits. the captive insurance company provides insurance reserves for estimated liabilities for product claims incurred but not reported based on actuarially determined liabilities. the actuarial valuations are based on historical information along with certain assumptions about future events. during the second quarter of 2003, the company issued 50,000 shares of restricted stock to its newly appointed president and chief operating officer. the stock vests ratably on the first five anniversary dates of the grant, provided that the recipient is still employed by the company. the aggregate market value of the restricted stock at the date of issuance of $3.4 million, as measured at the quoted price of the company's common stock, has been recorded as deferred stock-based compensation, a separate component of stockholders' equity, and is being amortized over the five-year vesting period. - 28 - in december 2003, the company announced that its subsidiary, physiotherapy associates, inc., and stryker received a subpoena from the united states attorney's office in boston, massachusetts, in connection with a department of justice investigation of physiotherapy associates' billing and coding practices. physiotherapy associates provides physical, occupational and speech therapy services to patients through 374 outpatient centers in the united states and represented 6% and 7% of stryker's net sales for the years ended december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively revenues derived from billings to u.s. federal health-care programs approximated 14% of physiotherapy associates' revenues during these periods. the company is fully cooperating with the department of justice regarding this matter. in december 2003, the fasb issued a revision to statement no. 132, employers' disclosures about pensions and other postretirement benefits . this revision requires additional disclosures by the company regarding its plan assets, investment strategies, plan obligations and cash flows. the company has adopted these new disclosure requirements for all of its defined benefit plans. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks in the other matters section of the company's management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 27 through 29. - 29 -