quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we incorporate by reference the information appearing under "market risk" in item 7 of this form 10-k. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors below for a more detailed discussion of these and other risk factors. 2 table of contents resort operation our operating philosophy is to create resorts of memorable character, treat our employees well and provide superior service for our guests. we also seek to develop competitive advantages in specific markets and among specific customer groups. general we primarily own and operate casino resorts, which includes offering gaming, hotel, dining, entertainment, retail and other resort amenities. over half of our net revenue is derived from non-gaming activities, a higher percentage than many of our competitors, as our operating philosophy is to provide a complete resort experience for our guests, including high quality non-gaming amenities for which our guests are willing to pay a premium. as a resort-based company, our operating results are highly dependent on the volume of customers at our resorts, which in turn affects the price we can charge for our hotel rooms and other amenities. since we believe that the number of walk-in customers affects the success of our casino resorts, we design our facilities to maximize their attraction to guests of other hotels. we also generate a significant portion of our operating income from the high-end gaming segment, which can be a cause of variability in our results. most of our revenue is essentially cash-based, through customers wagering with cash or paying for non-gaming services with cash or credit cards. our resorts, like many in the industry, generate significant operating cash flow. our industry is capital intensive and we rely heavily on the ability of our resorts to generate operating cash flow to repay debt financing, fund maintenance capital expenditures and provide excess cash for future development. our results of operations do not tend to be seasonal in nature, though a variety of factors can affect the results of any interim period, including the timing of major las vegas conventions, the amount and timing of marketing and special events for our high-end customers, and the level of play during major holidays, including new year and chinese new year. our significant convention and meeting facilities typically allow us to maximize hotel occupancy and customer volumes during off-peak times, such as mid-week or during traditionally slower leisure travel periods, which also leads to better labor utilization. our results do not depend on key individual customers, although our success in marketing to customer groups, such as convention customers, or the financial health of customer segments, such as business travelers or high-end gaming customers from a particular country or region, can affect our results. all of our casino resorts operate 24 hours a day, every day of the year, with the exception of grand victoria which operates 22 hours a day, every day of the year. at our wholly-owned resorts, our primary casino and hotel operations are owned and managed by us. other resort amenities may be owned and operated by us, owned by us but managed by third parties for a fee, or leased to third parties. we generally have an operating philosophy that favors ownership and management of amenities, since guests have direct contact with staff in these areas and we prefer to control all aspects of the guest experience; however, we do lease space to retail and food and beverage operators in certain situations, particularly for branding opportunities and where capital investment by us is not feasible. we also operate many managed outlets, utilizing third-party management for specific expertise in areas such as restaurants and nightclubs, as well as for branding opportunities. customers and competition our casino resorts generally operate in highly competitive environments. we compete against other gaming companies, as well as other hospitality and leisure and business travel companies. our primary methods of competing successfully include: locating our resorts in desirable leisure and business travel markets, and operating at superior sites within those markets; constructing and maintaining high-quality resorts and facilities, including luxurious guestrooms along with premier dining, entertainment, retail and other amenities; 3 table of contents recruiting, training and retaining well-qualified and motivated employees who provide superior and friendly customer service; providing unique, must-see entertainment attractions; and developing distinctive and memorable marketing and promotional programs. our las vegas casino resorts compete for customers with a large number of other hotel-casinos in the las vegas area, including major hotel-casinos on or near the las vegas strip, major hotel-casinos in the downtown area, which is about five miles from the center of the strip, and several major hotel-casinos elsewhere in the las vegas area. our las vegas strip resorts also compete, in part, with each other. according to the las vegas convention and visitors authority, there were approximately 149,000 guestrooms in las vegas at december 31, 2009, up 6% from approximately 141,000 rooms at december 31, 2008. at december 31, 2009, we operated approximately 28% of the guestrooms in las vegas. las vegas visitor volume was 36.4 million in 2009, a decrease of 3% from the 37.5 million reported for 2008. the principal segments of the las vegas gaming market are leisure travel; premium gaming customers; conventions, including small meetings, trade associations, and corporate incentive programs; and tour and travel. our high-end wholly-owned properties, which include bellagio, mgm grand las vegas, mandalay bay, and the mirage, appeal to the upper end of each market segment, balancing their business by using the convention and tour and travel segments to fill the mid-week and off-peak periods. our marketing strategy for new york-new york, luxor and monte carlo is aimed at attracting middle- to upper-middle-income customers, largely from the leisure travel and, to a lesser extent, the tour and travel segments. excalibur and circus circus las vegas generally cater to the value-oriented and middle-income leisure travel and tour and travel segments. outside las vegas, our other wholly-owned nevada operations compete with each other and with many other similarly sized and larger operations. our nevada resorts not located in las vegas appeal primarily to the value-oriented leisure traveler and the value-oriented local customer. a significant portion of our customers at these resorts come from california. we believe the expansion of native american gaming in california has had a negative impact on all of our nevada resorts not located on the las vegas strip, and additional expansion in california could have a further adverse effect on these resorts. outside nevada, our wholly-owned resorts primarily compete for customers in local and regional gaming markets, where location is a critical factor to success. for instance, in tunica, mississippi, one of our competitors is closer to memphis, the area principal market. in addition, we compete with gaming operations in surrounding jurisdictions and other leisure destinations in each region. for instance, in detroit, michigan we also compete with a casino in nearby windsor, canada and with native american casinos in michigan. in biloxi, mississippi we also compete with regional riverboat and land-based casinos in louisiana, native american casinos in central mississippi and with casinos in florida and the bahamas. aria at citycenter appeals to the upper end of each market segment. our other unconsolidated affiliates mainly compete for customers against casino resorts in their respective markets. much like our wholly-owned resorts, our unconsolidated affiliates compete through the quality of amenities, the value of the experience offered to guests, and the location of their resorts. aria, which we manage and own 50% of through a joint venture, also competes against our wholly-owned resorts. our casino resorts also compete for customers with hotel-casino operations located in other areas of the united states and other parts of the world, and for leisure and business travelers with non-gaming tourist destinations such as hawaii, florida and cruise ships. our gaming operations compete to a lesser extent with state-sponsored lotteries, off-track wagering, card parlors, and other forms of legalized gaming in the united states. marketing we advertise on radio, television and billboards and in newspapers and magazines in selected cities throughout the united states and overseas, as well as on the internet and by direct mail. we also advertise through our regional marketing offices located in major u.s. and foreign cities. a key element of marketing to premium gaming customers is personal contact by our marketing personnel. direct marketing is also important in the convention 4 table of contents segment. we maintain internet websites to inform customers about our resorts and allow our customers to reserve hotel rooms, make restaurant reservations and purchase show tickets. we also operate call centers to allow customer contact by phone to make hotel and restaurant reservations and purchase show tickets. we utilize our world-class golf courses in marketing programs at our las vegas strip resorts. our major las vegas resorts offer luxury suite packages that include golf privileges at shadow creek in north las vegas. in connection with our marketing activities, we also invite our premium gaming customers to play shadow creek on a complimentary basis. we also use primm valley golf club for marketing purposes at our las vegas strip resorts. additionally, marketing efforts at beau rivage benefit from fallen oak golf course just 20 minutes north of beau rivage. employees and management we believe that knowledgeable, friendly and dedicated employees are a key success factor in the casino resort industry. therefore, we invest heavily in recruiting, training and retaining our employees, as well as seeking to hire and promote the strongest management team possible. we have numerous programs, both at the corporate and business unit level, designed to achieve these objectives. for example, our diversity initiative extends throughout our company, and focuses on the unique strengths of our individuals combined with a culture of working together to achieve greater performance. our diversity program has been widely recognized and has received numerous awards. we believe our development programs, such as the mgm grand university and various leadership and management training programs, are best-in-class among our industry peers. technology we utilize technology to maximize revenue and efficiency in our operations. our players club program links our major resorts, and consolidates all slots and table games activity for customers with a players club account. customers qualify for benefits across all of the participating resorts, regardless of where they play. we believe that our players club enables us to more effectively market to our customers. we utilize server-based slot machine technology at aria which gives us the ability to present players club data and other property marketing directly to the customer. in addition, server-based gaming allows us to quickly convert the games offered on machines on the casino floor to meet customer requests and gives us the ability to dynamically change machine wagering allowing us to maximize our profits based on demand. technology is an important part of our strategy in non-gaming and administrative operations. our hotel systems include yield management software programs which allow us to maximize occupancy and room rates. additionally, these systems capture charges made by our customers during their stay, including allowing customers of our resorts to charge meals and services at our other resorts to their hotel accounts. internal controls we have a strong culture of compliance, driven by our history in the highly regulated gaming industry and our belief that compliance is a value-added activity. our system of internal controls and procedures including internal control over financial reporting is designed to ensure reliable and accurate financial records, transparent disclosures, compliance with laws and regulations, and protection of our assets. our internal controls start at the source of business transactions, and we have rigorous enforcement at both the business unit and corporate level. our corporate management also reviews each of our businesses on a regular basis and we have a corporate internal audit function that performs reviews regarding gaming compliance, internal controls over financial reporting, and operations. in addition, we maintain a compliance committee that administers our company-wide compliance plan. the compliance plan is in place to ensure compliance with gaming and other laws applicable to our operations in all jurisdictions, including performing background investigations on our current and potential employees, directors and vendors as well as thorough review of proposed transactions and associations. 5 table of contents in connection with the supervision of gaming activities at our casinos, we maintain stringent controls on the recording of all receipts and disbursements and other activities, including cash transaction reporting which is essential in our industry. our controls surrounding cash transactions include locked cash boxes on the casino floor, daily cash counts performed by employees who are independent of casino operations, constant observation and supervision of the gaming area, observation and recording of gaming and other areas by closed-circuit television, constant computer monitoring of our slot machines, and timely analysis of deviations from expected performance. marker play represents a significant portion of the table games volume at aria, bellagio, mgm grand las vegas, mandalay bay and the mirage. our other facilities do not emphasize marker play to the same extent, although we offer markers to customers at certain of those casinos as well. we also maintain strict controls over the issuance of markers and aggressively pursue collection from those customers who fail to timely pay their marker balances. these collection efforts are similar to those used by most large corporations when dealing with overdue customer accounts, including the mailing of statements and delinquency notices, direct personal contact and the use of outside collection agencies and civil litigation. in nevada, mississippi, michigan, new jersey and illinois, amounts owed for markers which are not timely paid are enforceable under state laws. all other states are required to enforce a judgment for amounts owed for markers entered into in nevada, mississippi, new jersey, illinois or michigan which are not timely paid, pursuant to the full faith and credit clause of the u.s. constitution. amounts owed for markers which are not timely paid are not legally enforceable in some foreign countries, but the u.s. assets of foreign customers may be reached to satisfy judgments entered in the united states. risks associated with our operating strategy certain principal risk factors relating to our operating strategy are: our guestroom, dining and entertainment prices are often higher than those of most of our competitors in each market, although we believe that the quality of our facilities and services is also higher; our hotel-casinos compete to some extent with each other for customers. aria, bellagio, mgm grand las vegas, mandalay bay and the mirage, in particular, compete for some of the same premium gaming customers; mgm grand las vegas and mandalay bay also compete to some extent against each other in the large-scale conference and convention business; and additional new hotel-casinos and expansion projects at existing las vegas hotel-casinos are under construction or have been proposed. we are unable to determine the extent to which increased competition will affect our future operating results. see item 1a. risk factors below for a more detailed discussion of these and other risk factors. sustainable growth and leveraging our brand and management assets in allocating resources, our financial strategy is focused on managing a proper mix of investing in existing resorts, spending on new resorts or initiatives, repaying long-term debt, and returning capital to shareholders. historically, we have actively allocated capital to each of these areas. we believe there are reasonable investments for us to make in new initiatives that will provide returns in excess of the other options, although these decisions have been significantly affected by the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, which limited our access to capital at prices low enough to finance all of our new initiatives. we regularly evaluate possible expansion and acquisition opportunities in both the domestic and international markets, but cannot at this time determine the likelihood of proceeding with specific development opportunities. opportunities we evaluate may include the ownership, management and operation of gaming and other entertainment facilities in nevada or in states other than nevada or outside of the united states. we may undertake these opportunities either alone or in cooperation with one or more third parties. due to the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, we postponed certain development projects including a resort complex on our 72-acre site in atlantic city and an integrated resort to be located on the southwest corner of las vegas boulevard and sahara avenue with kerzner international and istithmar. we do not expect to move forward with these projects until general economic 6 table of contents conditions, market conditions, and our financial position improve, and in the case of the atlantic city development, we do not intend to pursue this development for the foreseeable future see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further discussion of the related impairment charge. we also seek to leverage our management expertise and well-recognized brands through strategic partnerships and international expansion opportunities. we feel that several of our brands, particularly the mgm grand, bellagio, and skylofts brands, are well suited to new projects in both gaming and non-gaming developments. we formed mgm mirage hospitality, llc ( hospitality ), which includes mgm mirage global gaming development, principally focused on international gaming expansion. the purpose of hospitality is to source strategic resort development and management opportunities, both gaming and non-gaming, focusing on international opportunities, which we believe offer the greatest opportunity for future growth. we have hired senior personnel with established backgrounds in the development and management of international hospitality operations to maximize the profit potential of hospitality operations. mgm grand abu dhabi in november 2007, we announced plans to develop mgm grand abu dhabi, a multi-billion dollar, large-scale, mixed-use development that will serve as an incoming gateway to abu dhabi, a united arab emirate, located at a prominent downtown waterfront site on abu dhabi island. the project will be wholly owned by mubadala development company; we do not have a capital investment in this project. we currently provide development management services for the project, and upon opening, will manage the project under a long-term management services agreement. the initial phase will utilize 50 acres and consist of mgm grand, bellagio and skylofts hotels, and a variety of luxury residential offerings. additionally, the development will feature a major entertainment facility, high-end retail shops, and world-class dining and convention facilities. the first phase of the development is expected to open in 2014. mashantucket pequot tribal nation we have an agreement with the mashantucket pequot tribal nation ( mptn ), which owns and operates foxwoods casino resort in mashantucket, connecticut for the casino resort owned and operated by mptn located adjacent to the foxwoods casino resort to carry the mgm grand brand name. we earn a fee for mptn to use the mgm grand name. china we have formed a joint venture with the diaoyutai state guesthouse in beijing, people republic of china, to develop luxury non-gaming hotels and resorts in china, initially targeting prime locations, including beijing, in the people republic of china. we have signed three technical and management services agreements for resorts which will open over the next four years. we have minimal capital investments required for such projects. vietnam in november 2008, we and asian coast development ltd. announced plans to develop mgm grand ho tram, which is expected to open in 2012. mgm grand ho tram will anchor a multi-property complex on the ho tram strip in the ba ria vung tau province in southwest vietnam. mgm grand ho tram will be owned and financed by asian coast development ltd. and we will provide development assistance and operate the luxury integrated resort upon completion. we have no capital investment in this project. 7 table of contents risks associated with our growth and brand management strategies certain principal risk factors relating to our growth strategy are: development and operation of gaming facilities in new or existing jurisdictions are subject to many contingencies, some of which are outside of our control and may include the passage of appropriate gaming legislation, the issuance of necessary permits, licenses and approvals, the availability of appropriate financing and the satisfaction of other conditions; operations in which we may engage in foreign territories are subject to risks pertaining to international operations that may include financial risks such as foreign currency, adverse tax consequences, inability to adequately enforce our rights; and regulatory and political risks such as foreign government regulations, general geopolitical risks including political and economic instability, hostilities with neighboring countries, and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and expansion projects involve risks and uncertainties. for example, the design, timing and costs of the projects may change and are subject to risks attendant to large-scale projects to the extent we are responsible for financing such projects. see item 1a. risk factors below for a more detailed discussion of these and other risk factors. employees and labor relations as of december 31, 2009, we had approximately 46,000 full-time and 16,000 part-time employees; 7,000 and 2,100 of which, respectively, relate to citycenter. at that date, we had collective bargaining contracts with unions covering approximately 31,000 of our employees. we consider our employee relations to be good. the collective bargaining agreement covering approximately 4,000 employees at mgm grand las vegas expired in 2008. we have signed an extension of such agreement and are currently negotiating a new agreement. the collective bargaining agreements covering most of our other union employees expire in 2012. regulation and licensing the gaming industry is highly regulated, and we must maintain our licenses and pay gaming taxes to continue our operations. each of our casinos is subject to extensive regulation under the laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdiction in which it is located. these laws, rules and regulations generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners, managers, and persons with financial interest in the gaming operations. violations of laws in one jurisdiction could result in disciplinary action in other jurisdictions. a more detailed description of the regulations to which we are subject is contained in exhibit 99.2 to this annual report on form 10-k, which exhibit is incorporated herein by reference. our businesses are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations in addition to gaming regulations. these laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our operating results. forward-looking statements this form 10-k and our 2009 annual report to stockholders contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the u.s. private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as anticipates, intends, plans, seeks, believes, estimates, expects, and similar references to future periods. examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make regarding our ability to generate significant cash flow and amounts that we expect to receive in federal tax refunds, amounts we will invest in capital expenditures, amounts we will pay under the citycenter completion guarantee and receive from the sale of residential units at citycenter. the foregoing is not a complete list of all forward-looking statements we make. 8 table of contents forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions regarding our business, the economy and other future conditions. because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. they are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees or assurances of future performance. therefore, we caution you against relying on any of these forward-looking statements. important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include regional, national or global political, economic, business, competitive, market, and regulatory conditions and the following: our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments; current and future credit market conditions and general economic and business conditions, which could adversely affect our ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make planned expenditures; our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain restrictions which could affect our ability to operate our business and our liquidity; competition with other destination travel locations throughout the united states and the world; the fact that several of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation; the cost or failure to comply with these regulations would affect our business; effects of economic conditions and market conditions in the markets in which we operate; extreme weather conditions may cause property damage or interrupt our business; changes in energy prices; our concentration of gaming resorts on the las vegas strip; leisure and business travel is susceptible to global geopolitical events, such as terrorism or acts of war; investing through partnerships or joint ventures, including citycenter and mgm grand macau, decreases our ability to manage risk; plans for future construction can be affected by a variety of factors, including timing delays and legal challenges; the outcome of any ongoing and future litigation; the fact that tracinda corporation owns a significant portion of our stock and may have interests that differ from the interests of our other shareholders; and a significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements. any forward-looking statement made by us in this form 10-k and our 2009 annual report speaks only as of the date on which it is made. factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. we undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as may be required by law. you should also be aware that while we from time to time communicate with securities analysts, we do not disclose to them any material non-public information, internal forecasts or other confidential business information. therefore, you should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any analyst, irrespective of the content of the statement or report. to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain projections, forecasts or opinions, those reports are not our responsibility. 9 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the following table sets forth, as of february 15, 2010, the name, age and position of each of our executive officers. executive officers are elected by and serve at the pleasure of the board of directors. name age position james j. murren 48 chairman, chief executive officer, president and director robert h. baldwin 59 chief design and construction officer and director daniel j. d arrigo 41 executive vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer aldo manzini 46 executive vice president and chief administrative officer robert c. selwood 54 executive vice president and chief accounting officer rick arpin 37 senior vice president corporate controller alan feldman 51 senior vice president public affairs phyllis a. james 57 senior vice president, deputy general counsel john mcmanus 42 senior vice president, acting general counsel and secretary shawn t. sani 44 senior vice president taxes william m. scott iv 49 senior vice president, deputy general counsel mr. murren has served as chairman and chief executive officer of the company since december 2008 and as president since december 1999. he has served as chief operating officer since august 2007. he was chief financial officer from january 1998 to august 2007 and treasurer from november 2001 to august 2007. mr. baldwin has served as chief design and construction officer since august 2007. he served as chief executive officer of mirage resorts from june 2000 to august 2007 and president and chief executive officer of bellagio, llc from june 1996 to march 2005. mr. d arrigo has served as executive vice president and chief financial officer since august 2007 and treasurer since september 2009. he served as senior vice president finance of the company from february 2005 to august 2007 and as vice president finance of the company from december 2000 to february 2005. mr. manzini has served as executive vice president and chief administrative officer since march 2007. prior thereto, he served as senior vice president of strategic planning for the walt disney company and in various senior management positions throughout his tenure from april 1990 to january 2007. mr. selwood has served as executive vice president and chief accounting officer since august 2007. he served as senior vice president accounting of the company from february 2005 to august 2007 and as vice president accounting of the company from december 2000 to february 2005. mr. arpin has served as senior vice president corporate controller of the company since august 2009. he served as vice president of financial accounting of the company from january 2007 to august 2009. he served as assistant vice president of financial reporting from january 2005 to january 2007, and as director of financial reporting from may 2002 to january 2005. mr. feldman has served as senior vice president public affairs of the company since september 2001. he served as vice president public affairs of the company from june 2000 to september 2001. ms. james has served as senior vice president, deputy general counsel of the company since march 2002. from 1994 to 2001 she served as corporation (general) counsel and law department director for the city of detroit. in that capacity she also served on various public and quasi-public boards and commissions on behalf of the city, including the election commission, the detroit building authority and the board of ethics. mr. mcmanus has served as senior vice president, acting general counsel and secretary of the company since december 2009. he served as senior vice president, deputy general counsel and assistant secretary from september 2009 to december 2009. he served as senior vice president, assistant general counsel and assistant secretary of the company from july 2008 to september 2009. he served as vice president and general counsel for citycenter residential and retail divisions from january 2006 to july 2008. prior thereto, he served as general counsel or assistant general counsel for various of the company operating subsidiaries from may 2001 to january 2006. 10 table of contents mr. sani has served as senior vice president taxes of the company since july 2005. he served as vice president taxes of the company from june 2002 to july 2005. prior thereto he was a partner in the transaction advisory services practice of arthur andersen llp, having served that firm in various other capacities since 1988. mr. scott has served as senior vice president and deputy general counsel of the company since august 2009. previously, he was a partner in the los angeles office of sheppard, mullin, richter hampton llp, specializing in financing transactions, having joined that firm in 1986. available information we maintain a website, www.mgmmirage.com, which includes financial and other information for investors. we provide access to our sec filings, including our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, filed and furnished current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports on our website, free of charge, through a link to the sec edgar database. through that link, our filings are available as soon as reasonably practical after we file the documents. these filings are also available on the sec website at www.sec.gov . in addition, the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549 and may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. reference in this document to our website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website. item 1a. risk factors you should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the sec could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below. risks related to our substantial indebtedness our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations. as of december 31, 2009, we had approximately $14.1 billion of indebtedness. giving effect to the subsequent repayment of $1.6 billion under our senior credit facility on january 4, 2010, we had $12.5 billion of indebtedness including $4.0 billion outstanding under our $5.5 billion senior credit facility. we have no other existing sources of borrowing availability, except to the extent we pay down further amounts outstanding under the senior credit facility. we have approximately $1.1 billion of 2010 senior note maturities and estimated interest payments of $1.0 billion in 2010 based on outstanding debt as of december 31, 2009. any increase in the interest rates applicable to our existing or future borrowings would increase the cost of our indebtedness and reduce the cash flow available to fund our other liquidity needs. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for discussion of our liquidity and financial position. in addition, our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could have important negative consequences, including: increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to other less leveraged competitors. 11 table of contents moreover, our businesses are capital intensive. for our owned and managed properties to remain attractive and competitive we must periodically invest significant capital to keep the properties well-maintained, modernized and refurbished, which requires an ongoing supply of cash and, to the extent that we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. similarly, future development projects and acquisitions could require significant capital commitments, the incurrence of additional debt, guarantees of third-party debt, or the incurrence of contingent liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. events over the past two years, including the failures and near failures of financial services companies and the decrease in liquidity and available capital, have negatively affected the capital markets. current and future economic and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make planned expenditures. our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness and to fund planned or committed capital expenditures and investments in joint ventures, such as citycenter, depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future and our ability to borrow under our senior credit facility to the extent of available borrowings. if adverse regional and national economic conditions persist, worsen, or fail to improve significantly, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants which we are subject to under our indebtedness. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. we have a significant amount of indebtedness maturing in 2010 and 2011. our ability to timely refinance and replace such indebtedness will depend upon the foregoing as well as on continued and sustained improvements in financial markets. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on a timely basis, we might be forced to seek alternate forms of financing, dispose of certain assets or minimize capital expenditures and other investments. there is no assurance that any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms, on terms that would not be disadvantageous to note holders, or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements. the agreements governing our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations. covenants governing our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness restrict, among other things, our ability to: pay dividends or distributions, repurchase or issue equity, prepay debt or make certain investments; incur additional debt or issue certain disqualified stock and preferred stock; incur liens on assets; pledge or sell assets or consolidate with another company or sell all or substantially all assets; enter into transactions with affiliates; allow certain subsidiaries to transfer assets; and enter into sale and lease-back transactions. our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. the breach of any such covenants or obligations not otherwise waived or cured could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. any default under the senior credit facility or the indentures governing our other debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt, and could force us to seek protection under the bankruptcy laws. 12 table of contents risks related to our business we face significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete, and failure to effectively compete could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition results of operations and cash flow. the hotel, resort and casino industries are highly competitive. we do not believe that our competition is limited to a particular geographic area, and hotel, resort and gaming operations in other states or countries could attract our customers. to the extent that new casinos enter our markets or hotel room capacity is expanded by others in major destination locations, competition will increase. major competitors, including new entrants, have either recently expanded their hotel room capacity or are currently expanding their capacity or constructing new resorts in las vegas and macau. also, the growth of gaming in areas outside las vegas, including california, has increased the competition faced by our operations in las vegas and elsewhere. in particular, as large scale gaming operations in native american tribal lands has increased, particularly in california, competition has increased. in addition, competition could increase if changes in gaming restrictions in the u.s. and elsewhere result in the addition of new gaming establishments located closer to our customers than our casinos, such as has happened in california. in addition to competition with other hotels, resorts, and casinos, we compete with destination travel locations outside of the markets in which we operate. our failure to compete successfully in our various markets and to continue to attract customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. our ownership and operation of gaming facilities is subject to extensive regulation by the countries, states, and provinces in which we operate. these laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. as such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators or, alternatively, cease operations in that jurisdiction. in addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates in any jurisdiction could have a negative effect on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. for a summary of gaming and other regulations that affect our business, see regulation and licensing. the regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to various gaming taxes, which are subject to possible increase at any time. increases in gaming taxation could also adversely affect our results. as a result of the new jersey division of gaming enforcement (the dge ) investigation of our relationship with our joint venture partner in macau we are currently involved in constructive settlement discussions with the dge under which we would agree to sell our 50% ownership interest in borgata and related leased land in atlantic city. if we are unable to effectuate such a settlement with the dge, we may still be subject to action by the new jersey casino control commission related to the dge report see item 3. legal proceedings. our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside. our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending and corporate spending on conventions and business development. economic contraction, economic uncertainty or the perception by our customers of weak or weakening economic conditions may cause a decline in demand for hotel and casino resorts, trade shows and conventions, and for the type of luxury amenities we offer. in addition, changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as the increased cost of travel, an unstable job market, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism. aria, bellagio, mgm grand las vegas, mandalay bay and the mirage may be affected by economic conditions in the far east, and all of our nevada resorts are affected by economic conditions in the united states, and california in particular. 13 table of contents a recession, economic slowdown or any other significant economic condition affecting consumers or corporations generally is likely to cause a reduction in visitation to our resorts, which would adversely affect our operating results. for example, the recent recession and downturn in consumer and corporate spending has had a negative impact on our results of operations. in addition, the weak housing and real estate market both generally and in nevada particularly has negatively impacted citycenter ability to sell residential units. extreme weather conditions may cause property damage or interrupt business, which could harm our business and results of operations. certain of our casino properties are located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes. such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. although we maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such extreme weather conditions. furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period. our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results. we are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. accordingly, increases in energy costs, such as those experienced in 2007 and 2008, may have a negative impact on our operating results. additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices which affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues. because our major gaming resorts are concentrated on the las vegas strip, we will be subject to greater risks than a gaming company that is more geographically diversified. given that our major resorts are concentrated on the las vegas strip, our business may be significantly affected by risks common to the las vegas tourism industry. for example, the cost and availability of air services and the impact of any events which disrupt air travel to and from las vegas can adversely affect our business. we cannot control the number or frequency of flights into or out of las vegas, but we rely on air traffic for a significant portion or our visitors. reductions in flights by major airlines, such as those implemented in 2008 and 2009 as a result of higher fuel prices and lower demand, can impact the number of visitors to our resorts. additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between las vegas and southern california, where a large number of our customers reside. capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may also affect the number of customers who visit our facilities. leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events, such as terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility. we are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel by air. events such as those on september 11, 2001 can create economic and political uncertainties that could adversely impact our business levels. since most of our customers travel by air to our las vegas and macau properties, any further terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war, or any actual or perceived threat to the security of travel by air, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. furthermore, although we have been able to purchase some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism continues to be unavailable. investing through partnerships or joint ventures including citycenter and mgm grand macau decreases our ability to manage risk. in addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement our business directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, as a co-venturer. joint venturers often have shared control over the operation of the joint venture assets. therefore, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. 14 table of contents consequently, actions by a co-venturer might subject hotels and resorts owned by the joint venture to additional risk. further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. alternatively, our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. additionally, should a joint venture partner become bankrupt, we could become liable for our partner or co-venturer share of joint venture liabilities. for instance, if citycenter, 50% owned and managed by us, is unable to meet its financial commitments and we and our partners are unable to support future funding requirements, as necessary, or if citycenter $1.8 billion senior secured credit facility is terminated for any reason, such event could have adverse financial consequences to us. such credit facility includes provisions limiting the amount of permitted construction liens, and also includes leverage and interest coverage covenants which will go into effect during 2011. in accordance with our joint venture agreement and the citycenter credit facility, we provided a cost overrun guarantee which is secured by our interests in the assets of circus circus las vegas and certain adjacent undeveloped land. in addition, the operation of a joint venture is subject to inherent risk due to the shared nature of the enterprise and the need to reach agreements on material matters. also, the operation of mgm grand macau, 50% owned by us, is subject to unique risks, including risks related to: (a) macau regulatory framework; (b) our ability to adapt to the different regulatory and gaming environment in macau while remaining in compliance with the requirements of the gaming regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate, as well as other applicable federal, state, or local laws in the united states and macau; (c) potential political or economic instability; and (d) the extreme weather conditions in the region. furthermore, such operations in macau or any future operations in which we may engage in any other foreign territories are subject to risk pertaining to international operations. these may include financial risks, such as foreign economy, adverse tax consequences, and inability to adequately enforce our rights. these may also include regulatory and political risks, such as foreign government regulations, general geopolitical risks such as political and economic instability, hostilities with neighboring counties, and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships. our plans for future construction can be affected by a number of factors, including time delays in obtaining necessary governmental permits and approvals and legal challenges. with respect to any development project, we may make changes in project scope, budgets and schedules for competitive, aesthetic or other reasons, and these changes may also result from circumstances beyond our control. these circumstances include weather interference, shortages of materials and labor, work stoppages, labor disputes, unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems, unanticipated cost increases, the existence of acceptable market conditions and demand for the completed project, changes and concessions required by governmental or regulatory authorities, and delays in obtaining, or inability to obtain, all licenses, permits and authorizations required to complete and/or operate the project. any of these circumstances could give rise to delays or cost overruns. major expansion projects at our existing resorts may also result in disruption of our business during the construction period. our failure to complete any new development or expansion project as planned, on schedule, within budget or in a manner that generates anticipated profits, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we face risks related to pending claims that have been, or future claims that may be, brought against us. claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries in various legal proceedings, and additional legal and tax claims arise from time to time. we may not be successful in the defense or prosecution of our current or future legal proceedings, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. please see the further discussion in item 3. legal proceedings. 15 table of contents tracinda corporation owns a significant amount of our common stock and may have interests that differ from the interests of other holders of our stock. as of december 31, 2009, tracinda corporation beneficially owned approximately 37% of our outstanding common stock, all of which shares owned by tracinda have been pledged under its bank credit facility. tracinda may be required in the future, under its bank credit facility, to liquidate some or all of such pledged shares if the value of the collateral falls below a specified level. a liquidation of this nature of sufficient size may trigger a change of control under certain of the instruments governing our outstanding indebtedness. upon a change of control, the lenders obligation to make advances under our senior credit facility may be terminated at the option of the lenders. in addition, tracinda may be able to exercise significant influence over mgm mirage as a result of its significant ownership of our outstanding common stock. as a result, actions requiring stockholder approval that may be supported by other stockholders could be effectively blocked by tracinda corporation. a significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements. work stoppages and other labor problems could negatively affect our business and results of operations. approximately 31,000 of our 62,000 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. a prolonged dispute with the covered employees could have an adverse impact on our operations. in addition, wage and or benefit increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations. the collective bargaining agreement covering approximately 4,000 employees at mgm grand las vegas expired in 2008. we have signed an extension of such agreement and are currently negotiating a new agreement. in addition, to the extent that our non-union employees join unions, we would have greater exposure to risks associated with labor problems. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we incorporate by reference the information appearing under market risk in item 7 of this form 10-k.risk factors risk factors for a more detailed discussion of these and other risk factors. 2 table of contents resort operation our operating philosophy is to create resorts of memorable character, to treat our employees as valued and respected team members and to provide superior service for our guests. in addition, we also seek to develop competitive advantages in specific markets and among specific customer groups. general we primarily own and operate casino resorts that include gaming, hotel, dining, entertainment, retail and other resort amenities. over half of our net revenue is derived from non-gaming activities, a higher percentage than many of our competitors, as we provide a complete resort experience for our guests, including high quality non-gaming amenities for which our guests are willing to pay a premium. as a resort-based company, our operating results are highly dependent on the volume of customers at our resorts, which in turn affects the price we can charge for our hotel rooms and other amenities. since we believe that the number of walk-in customers affects the success of our casino resorts, we design our facilities to maximize their attraction to guests of other hotels. we also generate a significant portion of our operating income from the high-end gaming segment, which can cause variability in our results. most of our revenue is essentially cash-based, through customers wagering with cash or paying for non-gaming services with cash or credit cards. our resorts, like many in the industry, generate significant operating cash flow. our industry is capital intensive and we rely heavily on the ability of our resorts to generate operating cash flow to repay debt financing, fund capital expenditures and provide excess cash for future development. our results of operations do not tend to be seasonal in nature, though a variety of factors can affect the results of any interim period, including the timing of major las vegas conventions, the amount and timing of marketing and special events for our high-end customers, and the level of play during major holidays, including new year and chinese new year. our significant convention and meeting facilities are utilized to maximize hotel occupancy and customer volumes during off-peak times, such as mid-week or traditionally slower leisure travel periods, which also leads to better labor utilization. our results do not depend on key individual customers, although our success in marketing to customer groups, such as convention customers, or the financial health of customer segments, such as business travelers or high-end gaming customers from a particular country or region, can affect our results. all of our casino resorts operate 24 hours a day, every day of the year, with the exception of grand victoria which operates 22 hours a day, every day of the year. at our wholly-owned resorts, our primary casino and hotel operations are owned and managed by us. other resort amenities may be owned and operated by us, owned by us but managed by third parties for a fee, or leased to third parties. we generally have an operating philosophy that favors ownership and management of amenities, since guests have direct contact with staff in these areas and we prefer to control all aspects of the guest experience; however, we do lease space to retail and food and beverage operators, particularly for branding opportunities and when capital investment by us is not desirable or feasible. we also operate many managed outlets, utilizing third-party management for specific expertise in operations of restaurants and nightclubs, as well as for branding opportunities. customers and competition our casino resorts generally operate in highly competitive environments. we compete against other gaming companies, as well as other hospitality and leisure and business travel companies. our primary methods of successful competition include: locating our resorts in desirable leisure and business travel markets, and operating at superior sites within those markets; constructing and maintaining high-quality resorts and facilities, including luxurious guestrooms, state-of-the-art convention facilities and premier dining, entertainment, retail and other amenities; recruiting, training and retaining well-qualified and motivated employees who provide superior and friendly customer service; 3 table of contents providing unique, must-see entertainment attractions; and developing distinctive and memorable marketing and promotional programs. our las vegas casino resorts compete for customers with a large number of other hotel casinos in the las vegas area, including major hotel casinos on or near the las vegas strip, major hotel casinos in the downtown area, which is about five miles from the center of the strip, and several major hotel casinos elsewhere in the las vegas area. our las vegas strip resorts also compete, in part, with each other. according to the las vegas convention and visitors authority, there were approximately 149,000 guestrooms in las vegas at december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009. at december 31, 2010, we operated approximately 28% of the guestrooms in las vegas. las vegas visitor volume was 37.3 million in 2010, a 3% increase from the 36.4 million reported for 2009. the principal segments of the las vegas gaming market are leisure travel; premium gaming customers; conventions, including small meetings, trade associations, and corporate incentive programs; and tour and travel. our luxury wholly-owned properties, including bellagio, mgm grand las vegas, mandalay bay, and the mirage, appeal to the upper end of each market segment, balancing their business by using the convention and tour and travel segments to fill the mid-week and off-peak periods. our marketing strategy for new york-new york, luxor and monte carlo is aimed at attracting middle- to upper-middle-income customers, largely from the leisure travel and, to a lesser extent, the tour and travel segments. excalibur and circus circus las vegas generally cater to the value-oriented and middle-income leisure travel and tour and travel segments. outside las vegas, our other wholly-owned nevada operations compete with each other and with many other similarly sized and larger operations. our nevada resorts located outside of las vegas appeal primarily to the value-oriented leisure traveler and the value-oriented local customer. a significant number of our customers at these resorts come from california. we believe the expansion of native american gaming in california has had a negative impact on all of our nevada resorts not located on the las vegas strip, and additional expansion in california could have a further adverse effect on these resorts. outside nevada, our wholly-owned resorts primarily compete for customers in local and regional gaming markets, where location is a critical factor to success. for instance, in tunica, mississippi, one of our competitors is closer to memphis, the area principal market. in addition, we compete with gaming operations in surrounding jurisdictions and other leisure destinations in each region. for example, in detroit, michigan we also compete with a casino in nearby windsor, canada and with native american casinos in michigan. in biloxi, mississippi we also compete with regional riverboat and land-based casinos in louisiana, native american casinos in central mississippi and with casinos in florida and the bahamas. aria, which we manage and of which we own 50% through the citycenter joint venture ( citycenter ), appeals to the upper end of each segment in the las vegas market and competes with our wholly-owned luxury casino resorts. our other unconsolidated affiliates mainly compete for customers against casino resorts in their respective markets. much like our wholly-owned resorts, our unconsolidated affiliates compete through the quality of amenities, the value of the experience offered to guests, and the location of their resorts. our casino resorts also compete for customers with hotel casino operations located in other areas of the united states and other parts of the world, and for leisure and business travelers with non-gaming tourist destinations such as hawaii, florida and california. our gaming operations compete to a lesser extent with state-sponsored lotteries, off-track wagering, card parlors, and other forms of legalized gaming in the united states. marketing we advertise on the radio, television, internet and billboards and in newspapers and magazines in selected cities throughout the united states and overseas, as well as by direct mail and through the use of social media. we also advertise through our regional marketing offices located in major u.s. and foreign cities. a key element of marketing to premium gaming customers is personal contact by our marketing personnel. direct marketing is also important in the convention segment. we maintain internet websites to inform customers about our resorts and allow our customers to reserve hotel rooms, make restaurant reservations and purchase show tickets. we actively utilize several social media sites to promote our brands, unique events, and special deals. we also operate call centers to allow customer contact by phone to make hotel and restaurant reservations and purchase show tickets. 4 table of contents we recently introduced a new players club loyalty program ( m life ). m life was introduced at our regional resorts in the third quarter of 2010, and to the remaining participating wholly-owned casino resorts and aria on january 11, 2011. m life is our new player loyalty program that provides access to rewards, privileges, and members-only events. m life is a tiered system and allows customers to qualify for benefits across our participating resorts, regardless of where they play, encouraging customers to keep their total gaming spend within our casino resorts. m life combines slots and table games play into one account and customers earn tiered rewards on both types of play. customers earn express comps, which can be redeemed at restaurants, box offices, the m life players club, or kiosks at participating properties. players can also redeem their express comps for m life moments, which allow members to take advantage of unique and once-in-a-lifetime experiences such as picking the bellagio fountain songs for a day, being a trainer for a day with the dolphins at the mirage and meet-and-greets with performers and celebrity chefs across our resort portfolio. members of m life also continue to earn points redeemable for free play. m life is currently a casino centered program but will expand to a broad-based program recognizing and rewarding customer spending across most channels focusing on wallet share capture, loyalty and frequency of visits. advanced analytic techniques and new information technology will better identify customer preferences and predict future behavior allowing us to make customers more relevant offers, influence incremental visits and help build lasting customer relationships. in addition to the loyalty program, we have re-branded our company magazine and developed an in-room m life television channel to highlight customers experiences and showcase moments customers can earn through the accumulation of express comps. we believe that m life will enable us to more effectively market to our customers, as well as allow us to personalize customers experiences. we also utilize our world-class golf courses in marketing programs at our las vegas strip resorts. our major las vegas resorts offer luxury suite packages that include golf privileges at shadow creek in north las vegas. in connection with our marketing activities, we also invite our premium gaming customers to play shadow creek on a complimentary basis. we also use primm valley golf club for marketing purposes at our las vegas strip resorts. additionally, marketing efforts at beau rivage benefit from fallen oak golf course 20 minutes north of beau rivage. employees and management we believe that knowledgeable, friendly and dedicated employees are a key success factor in the casino resort industry. therefore, we invest heavily in recruiting, training and retaining exceptional highly motivated employees, as well as seeking to hire and promote the strongest management team possible. we have numerous programs, both at the corporate and business unit level, designed to achieve these objectives. for example, our diversity initiative extends throughout our company, and focuses on the unique strengths of our individuals combined with a culture of collaborative teamwork to achieve greater performance. our diversity program has been widely recognized and has received numerous awards. we believe our internal development programs, such as the mgm resorts university and various leadership and management training programs, are best in class among our industry peers. technology we utilize various types of technology to maximize revenue and efficiency in our operations. we continue to move forward on standardizing the technology platforms for our hotel and point of sale systems, along with several other key operational systems. the standardization of these systems provides us with one consistent operating platform, allowing us efficiencies in training, reducing complexity in system integration and interfaces, standardizing processes across our casino resorts, and providing our customers with better information in connection with the implementation of m life. technology is also an important part of our strategy in non-gaming and administrative operations. our hotel systems include yield management software programs at many of our resorts that help us maximize occupancy and room rates. additionally, these systems capture charges made by our customers during their stay, including allowing customers of our resorts to charge meals and services at our other resorts to their hotel accounts. 5 table of contents corporate sustainability we continue to gain recognition for our comprehensive company-wide environmental responsibility initiatives. during 2010, we were the first resorts in nevada and michigan to earn certification from green key, the largest international program evaluating sustainable hotel operations. we received certifications at 12 resorts, including five green key (the highest possible) ratings at aria, vdara and mandalay bay. many major travel service providers recognize the green key designation and identify our resorts for their continued commitment to sustainable hotel operations. we believe that our sustainability efforts are particularly beneficial in meeting and convention bookings, as corporations and associations seek to extend their environmentally responsible practices by doing business with like-minded, environmentally friendly companies. in addition, we believe that incorporating the tenets of sustainability in our business decisions provides a platform for innovation. citycenter is one of the world largest private green developments. aria, vdara, crystals, mandarin oriental, veer, and the aria convention center all have received leed gold certification by the u.s. green building council. this marks the highest leed achievement for any hotel, retail district or residential development in las vegas. with this accomplishment, citycenter created a new standard for combining luxury and environmental responsibility within the large-scale hospitality industry. internal controls we have a strong culture of compliance, driven by our history in the highly regulated gaming industry and our belief that compliance is a value-added activity. our system of internal controls and procedures - including internal control over financial reporting is designed to promote reliable and accurate financial records, transparent disclosures, compliance with laws and regulations, and protection of our assets. our internal controls start at the source of business transactions, and we have rigorous enforcement at both the business unit and corporate level. our corporate management also reviews each of our businesses on a regular basis and we have a corporate internal audit function that performs regular reviews regarding gaming compliance, internal controls over financial reporting, and operations. in addition, we maintain a compliance committee that administers our company-wide compliance plan. the compliance plan is in place to promote compliance with gaming and other laws applicable to our operations in all jurisdictions, including performing background investigations on our current and potential employees, directors and vendors as well as thorough review of proposed transactions and associations. in connection with the supervision of gaming activities at our casinos, we maintain stringent controls on the recording of all receipts and disbursements and other activities, including cash transaction reporting which is essential in our industry. our controls surrounding cash transactions include locked cash boxes on the casino floor, daily cash counts performed by employees who are independent of casino operations, constant observation and supervision of the gaming area, observation and recording of gaming and other areas by closed-circuit television, constant computer monitoring of our slot machines, and timely analysis of deviations from expected performance. marker play represents a significant portion of the table games volume at aria, bellagio, mgm grand las vegas, mandalay bay and the mirage. our other facilities do not emphasize marker play to the same extent, although we offer markers to customers at certain of those casinos as well. we maintain strict controls over the issuance of markers and aggressively pursue collection from those customers who fail to timely pay their marker balances. these collection efforts are similar to those used by most large corporations when dealing with overdue customer accounts, including the mailing of statements and delinquency notices, direct personal contact and the use of outside collection agencies and civil litigation. in our u.s. jurisdictions, amounts owed for markers which are not timely paid are enforceable under state laws and all other states are required to enforce a judgment for amounts owed, pursuant to the full faith and credit clause of the u.s. constitution. amounts owed for markers that are not timely paid are not legally enforceable in some foreign countries, but the u.s. assets of foreign customers may be reached to satisfy judgments entered in the united states. 6 table of contents risks associated with our operating strategy certain principal risk factors relating to our operating strategy are: our guestroom, dining and entertainment prices are often higher than those of most of our competitors in each market, although we believe that the quality of our facilities and services is also higher; our resort casinos compete to some extent with each other for customers. aria, bellagio, mgm grand las vegas, mandalay bay and the mirage, in particular, compete for some of the same premium gaming customers; mgm grand las vegas and mandalay bay also compete to some extent against each other in the large-scale convention business and for large entertainment events; and additional new hotel casinos and expansion projects at existing las vegas hotel casinos have recently opened and new resorts could open in future periods. we are unable to determine the extent to which increased competition will affect our future operating results. see item 1a. risk factors for a more detailed discussion of these and other risk factors. sustainable growth and leveraging our brand and management assets in allocating resources, our financial strategy is focused on managing a proper mix of investing in existing resorts, spending on new resorts or initiatives and repaying long-term debt. we believe there are reasonable investments for us to make in new initiatives and at our current resorts that will provide profitable returns, although these decisions have been significantly affected by economic conditions over the past several years, as well as by the recent financial crisis, which limited our access to capital. we regularly evaluate possible expansion and acquisition opportunities in both the domestic and international markets, but cannot at this time determine the likelihood of proceeding with specific development opportunities. opportunities we evaluate may include the ownership, management and operation of gaming and other entertainment facilities in nevada or in states other than nevada or outside of the united states. we may undertake these opportunities either alone or in cooperation with one or more third parties. we leverage our management expertise and well-recognized brands through strategic partnerships and international expansion opportunities. we feel that several of our brands, particularly the mgm grand, bellagio, and skylofts brands, are well suited to new projects in both gaming and non-gaming developments. we formed mgm hospitality, llc ( mgm hospitality ) to focus on strategic resort development and management opportunities, with an emphasis on international opportunities which we believe offer the greatest opportunity for future growth. we have hired senior personnel with established backgrounds in the development and management of international hospitality operations to maximize the profit potential of mgm hospitality operations. mgm hospitality currently has management agreements for hotels in the middle east, north africa, india and china. mgm grand abu dhabi in november 2007, we announced plans to develop a multi-billion dollar, large-scale, mixed-use development that will serve as an incoming gateway to abu dhabi, a united arab emirate, located at a prominent downtown waterfront site on abu dhabi island. the project will be owned entirely by mubadala development company ( mubadala ); we will not have a capital investment in this project. mubadala has informed us that they do not intend to proceed with the project on the same time frame and scope as originally contemplated. as a result, we are currently engaged in discussions with mubadala regarding the restructuring of the project. china we have formed a joint venture with the diaoyutai state guesthouse in beijing, people republic of china, to develop luxury non-gaming hotels and resorts in china, initially targeting prime locations, including beijing, in the people republic of china. our first resort, under the mgm grand brand, is currently scheduled to open in late 7 table of contents 2011 in sanya, china. we have signed multiple technical and management services agreements for resorts that are expected to open over the next four years. we have minimal capital investments in these projects. vietnam in november 2008, we and asian coast development ltd. announced plans to develop mgm grand ho tram, which is expected to open in 2013. mgm grand ho tram will anchor a multi-property complex on the ho tram strip in the ba ria vung tau province in southwest vietnam. mgm grand ho tram will be owned and financed by asian coast development ltd. and we will provide technical assistance and operate the luxury-integrated resort upon completion. we will have no capital investment in this project. mashantucket pequot tribal nation we have an agreement with the mashantucket pequot tribal nation ( mptn ), which owns and operates foxwoods casino resort in mashantucket, connecticut for the casino resort owned and operated by mptn located adjacent to the foxwoods casino resort to carry the mgm grand brand name. we earn a fee for mptn to use the mgm grand name. risks associated with our growth and brand management strategies certain principal risk factors relating to our growth strategy are: development and operation of gaming facilities in new or existing jurisdictions are subject to many contingencies, some of which are outside of our control and may include the passage of appropriate gaming legislation, the issuance of necessary permits, licenses and approvals, the availability of appropriate financing and the satisfaction of other conditions; operations in which we may engage in foreign territories are subject to risks pertaining to international operations that may include financial risks such as foreign currency, adverse tax consequences, inability to adequately enforce our rights; and regulatory and political risks such as foreign government regulations, general geopolitical risks including political and economic instability, hostilities with neighboring countries, and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and expansion projects involve risks and uncertainties. for example, the design, timing and costs of the projects may change and are subject to risks attendant to large-scale projects to the extent we are responsible for financing such projects. see item 1a. risk factors for a more detailed discussion of these and other risk factors. intellectual property our principal intellectual property consists of, among others, bellagio, the mirage, mandalay bay, mgm grand, luxor, excalibur, new york-new york, circus circus and beau rivage trademarks, all of which have been registered or allowed in various classes in the u.s. we are currently undergoing the application process for the mgm resorts international trademark. in addition, we have also registered or applied to register numerous other trademarks in connection with our properties, facilities and development projects in the u.s. we have also registered and/or applied to register many of our trademarks in various other foreign jurisdictions. these trademarks are brand names under which we market our properties and services. we consider these brand names to be important to our business since they have the effect of developing brand identification. we believe that the name recognition, reputation and image that we have developed attract customers to our facilities. once granted, our trademark registrations are of perpetual duration so long as they are used and periodically renewed. it is our intent to pursue and maintain our trademark registrations consistent with our goals for brand development and identification, and enforcement of our trademark rights. employees and labor relations as of december 31, 2010, we had approximately 45,000 full-time and 16,000 part-time employees of which 5,700 and 2,800, respectively, relate to citycenter. at that date, we had collective bargaining contracts with unions 8 table of contents covering approximately 30,000 of our employees. we consider our employee relations to be good. the collective bargaining agreements covering most of our union employees are subject to renegotiation in 2012. regulation and licensing the gaming industry is highly regulated, and we must maintain our licenses and pay gaming taxes to continue our operations. each of our casinos is subject to extensive regulation under the laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdiction in which it is located. these laws, rules and regulations generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners, managers, and persons with financial interest in the gaming operations. violations of laws in one jurisdiction could result in disciplinary action in other jurisdictions. a more detailed description of the regulations to which we are subject is contained in exhibit 99.2 to this annual report on form 10-k, which exhibit is incorporated herein by reference. our businesses are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations in addition to gaming regulations. these laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our operating results. cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements this form 10-k and our 2010 annual report to stockholders contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the u.s. private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as anticipates, intends, plans, seeks, believes, estimates, expects, will, may and similar references to future periods. examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make regarding our ability to generate significant cash flow; and amounts that we expect to receive in federal tax refunds, amounts we will invest in capital expenditures, amounts we will pay under the citycenter completion guarantee, and amounts we may receive from the sale of residential units at citycenter. the foregoing is not a complete list of all forward-looking statements we make. forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions regarding our business, the economy and other future conditions. because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. they are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees or assurances of future performance. therefore, we caution you against relying on any of these forward-looking statements. important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, regional, national or global political, economic, business, competitive, market, and regulatory conditions and the following: our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments and our ability to satisfy our obligations; current and future economic and credit market conditions and our ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make planned expenditures; restrictions and limitations in the agreements governing our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness; significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete; the fact that we are subject to extensive regulation and the related cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations; economic and market conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside; extreme weather conditions or climate change may cause property damage or interrupt business; the concentration of our major gaming resorts on the las vegas strip; 9 table of contents investing through partnerships or joint ventures including citycenter and mgm macau decreases our ability to manage risk; our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices; leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events, such as terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility; we extend credit to a significant portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players; our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. in addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future; plans for future construction can be affected by a number of factors, including timing delays and legal challenges; the outcome of pending and potential future litigation claims against us; the fact that tracinda corporation ( tracinda ) owns a significant amount of our common stock and may have interests that differ from the interests of other holders of our stock; a significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements; and risks associated with doing business outside of the united states. any forward-looking statement made by us in this form 10-k or our 2010 annual report speaks only as of the date on which it is made. factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. we undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as may be required by law. you should also be aware that while we from time to time communicate with securities analysts, we do not disclose to them any material non-public information, internal forecasts or other confidential business information. therefore, you should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any analyst, irrespective of the content of the statement or report. to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain projections, forecasts or opinions, those reports are not our responsibility and are not endorsed by us. executive officers of the registrant the following table sets forth, as of february 28, 2011, the name, age and position of each of our executive officers. executive officers are elected by and serve at the pleasure of the board of directors. name age position james j. murren 49 chairman, chief executive officer, president and director robert h. baldwin 60 chief design and construction officer and director william j. hornbuckle 53 chief marketing officer corey i. sanders 47 chief operating officer daniel j. d arrigo 42 executive vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer phyllis a. james 58 executive vice president special counsel litigation and chief diversity officer aldo manzini 47 executive vice president and chief administrative officer john mcmanus 43 executive vice president, general counsel and secretary william m. scott iv 50 executive vice president corporate strategy and special counsel robert c. selwood 55 executive vice president and chief accounting officer rick arpin 38 senior vice president corporate controller alan feldman 52 senior vice president public affairs james a. freeman 42 senior vice president capital markets and strategy shawn t. sani 45 senior vice president taxes mr. murren has served as chairman and chief executive officer of the company since december 2008 and as president since december 1999. he served as chief operating officer from august 2007 through december 2008. he was chief financial officer from january 1998 to august 2007 and treasurer from november 2001 to august 2007. 10 table of contents mr. baldwin has served as chief design and construction officer since august 2007. he served as chief executive officer of mirage resorts from june 2000 to august 2007 and president and chief executive officer of bellagio, llc from june 1996 to march 2005. mr. hornbuckle has served as chief marketing officer since august 2009. he served as president and chief operating officer of mandalay bay resort casino from april 2005 to august 2009. he served as president and chief operating officer of mgm mirage europe from july 2001 to april 2005. he served as president and chief operating officer of mgm grand las vegas from october 1998 to july 2001. mr. sanders has served as chief operating officer since september 2010. he served as chief operating officer for the company core brand and regional properties from august 2009 to september 2010, as executive vice president operations from august 2007 to august 2009, as executive vice president and chief financial officer for mgm grand resorts from april 2005 to august 2007 and served as executive vice president and chief financial officer for mgm grand from august 1997 to april 2005. mr. d arrigo has served as executive vice president and chief financial officer since august 2007 and treasurer since september 2009. he served as senior vice president finance of the company from february 2005 to august 2007 and as vice president finance of the company from december 2000 to february 2005. ms. james has served as executive vice president and special counsel litigation since july 2010. she served as senior vice president, deputy general counsel of the company from march 2002 to july 2010. from 1994 to 2001 she served as corporation (general) counsel and law department director for the city of detroit. in that capacity she also served on various public and quasi-public boards and commissions on behalf of the city, including the election commission, the detroit building authority and the board of ethics. mr. manzini has served as executive vice president and chief administrative officer since march 2007. prior thereto, he served as senior vice president of strategic planning for the walt disney company and in various senior management positions throughout his tenure from april 1990 to january 2007. mr. mcmanus has served as executive vice president, general counsel and secretary since july 2010. he served as senior vice president, acting general counsel and secretary of the company from december 2009 to july 2010. he served as senior vice president, deputy general counsel and assistant secretary from september 2009 to december 2009. he served as senior vice president, assistant general counsel and assistant secretary of the company from july 2008 to september 2009. he served as vice president and general counsel for citycenter residential and retail divisions from january 2006 to july 2008. prior thereto, he served as general counsel or assistant general counsel for various of the company operating subsidiaries from may 2001 to january 2006. mr. scott has served as executive vice president corporate strategy and special counsel since july 2010. he served as senior vice president and deputy general counsel of the company from august 2009 to july 2010. previously, he was a partner in the los angeles office of sheppard, mullin, richter hampton llp, specializing in financing transactions, having joined that firm in 1986. mr. selwood has served as executive vice president and chief accounting officer since august 2007. he served as senior vice president accounting of the company from february 2005 to august 2007 and as vice president accounting of the company from december 2000 to february 2005. mr. arpin has served as senior vice president corporate controller of the company since august 2009. he served as vice president of financial accounting of the company from january 2007 to august 2009. he served as assistant vice president of financial reporting from january 2005 to january 2007, and as director of financial reporting from may 2002 to january 2005. mr. feldman has served as senior vice president public affairs of the company since september 2001. he served as vice president public affairs of the company from june 2000 to september 2001. mr. freeman has served as senior vice president capital markets and strategy since march 2010. previously, he was the senior vice president and chief financial officer of fontainebleau resorts, having joined that company in 2006. prior thereto, he held various investment banking positions with banc of america securities from 1998 to 2006. 11 table of contents mr. sani has served as senior vice president taxes of the company since july 2005. he served as vice president taxes of the company from june 2002 to july 2005. available information we maintain a website at www.mgmresorts.com that includes financial and other information for investors. we provide access to our sec filings, including our annual report on form 10-k and quarterly reports on form 10-q (including related filings in xbrl format), filed and furnished current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports on our website, free of charge, through a link to the sec edgar database. through that link, our filings are available as soon as reasonably practical after we file the documents. these filings are also available on the sec website at www.sec.gov . in addition, the public may read and copy any materials that we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, d.c. 20549 and may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. reference in this document to our website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website. 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors you should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the sec could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial positions, results of operations or cash flows. in evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below. risks related to our substantial indebtedness our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations. as of december 31, 2010, we had approximately $12.3 billion of indebtedness, including $2.3 billion of borrowings outstanding under our senior credit facility, and had approximately $1.2 billion of available borrowing capacity under the senior credit facility. we have no other existing sources of borrowing availability, except to the extent we pay down further amounts outstanding under the senior credit facility. we have approximately $455 million of 2011 note maturities and estimated interest payments of $969 million in 2011 based on outstanding debt as of december 31, 2010. any increase in the interest rates applicable to our existing or future borrowings would increase the cost of our indebtedness and reduce the cash flow available to fund our other liquidity needs. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for discussion of our liquidity and financial position. in addition, our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could have important negative consequences, including: - increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions; - limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; - limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; - making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; and - placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to other less leveraged competitors. moreover, our businesses are capital intensive. for our owned and managed properties to remain attractive and competitive we must periodically invest significant capital to keep the properties well-maintained, modernized and refurbished, which requires an ongoing supply of cash and, to the extent that we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. similarly, future development projects and acquisitions could require significant capital commitments, the incurrence of additional debt, guarantees of third-party debt, or the incurrence of contingent liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. events over the past several years, including the failures and near failures of financial services companies and the decrease in liquidity and available capital, have negatively affected the capital markets. current and future economic and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make planned expenditures. our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness and to fund planned or committed capital expenditures and investments in joint ventures, such as citycenter, depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future and our ability to borrow under our senior credit facility to the extent of available borrowings. if adverse regional and national economic conditions persist, worsen, or fail to improve significantly, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants which we are subject to under our indebtedness. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. we have a significant amount of indebtedness maturing in 2013 and 2014 and thereafter. our ability to timely refinance and replace such indebtedness will depend upon the foregoing as well as on continued and sustained improvements in financial markets. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on a timely basis, we might 13 table of contents be forced to seek alternate forms of financing, dispose of certain assets or minimize capital expenditures and other investments. there is no assurance that any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms, on terms that would not be disadvantageous to note holders, or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements. the agreements governing our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations. covenants governing our senior credit facility and certain of our debt securities restrict, among other things, our ability to: - pay dividends or distributions, repurchase or issue equity, prepay debt or make certain investments; - incur additional debt or issue certain disqualified stock and preferred stock; - incur liens on assets; - pledge or sell assets or consolidate with another company or sell all or substantially all assets; - enter into transactions with affiliates; - allow certain subsidiaries to transfer assets; and - enter into sale and lease-back transactions. our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. the breach of any such covenants or obligations not otherwise waived or cured could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. any default under the senior credit facility or the indentures governing our other debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt, and could force us to seek protection under the bankruptcy laws. risks related to our business we face significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete, and failure to effectively compete could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition results of operations and cash flow. the hotel, resort and casino industries are highly competitive. we do not believe that our competition is limited to a particular geographic area, and hotel, resort and gaming operations in other states or countries could attract our customers. to the extent that new casinos enter our markets or hotel room capacity is expanded by others in major destination locations, competition will increase. major competitors, including new entrants, have either recently expanded their hotel room capacity or are currently expanding their capacity or constructing new resorts in las vegas and macau. also, the growth of gaming in areas outside las vegas, including california, has increased the competition faced by our operations in las vegas and elsewhere. in particular, as large scale gaming operations in native american tribal lands has increased, particularly in california, competition has increased. in addition, competition could increase if changes in gaming restrictions in the u.s. and elsewhere result in the addition of new gaming establishments located closer to our customers than our casinos, such as has happened in california. in addition to competition with other hotels, resorts, and casinos, we compete with destination travel locations outside of the markets in which we operate. our failure to compete successfully in our various markets and to continue to attract customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. our ownership and operation of gaming facilities is subject to extensive regulation by the countries, states, and provinces in which we operate. these laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. as such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators or, alternatively, 14 table of contents cease operations in that jurisdiction. in addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates in any jurisdiction could have a negative effect on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. for a summary of gaming and other regulations that affect our business, see regulation and licensing. the regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to various gaming taxes, which are subject to possible increase at any time. increases in gaming taxation could also adversely affect our results. further, our directors, officers, key employees and joint venture partners must meet approval standards of certain state regulatory authorities. if state regulatory authorities were to find a person occupying any such position or a joint venture partner unsuitable, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person or the joint venture partner may be required to dispose of their interest in the joint venture. state regulatory agencies may conduct investigations into the conduct or associations of our directors, officers, key employees or joint venture partners to ensure compliance with applicable standards. for example, as a result of the new jersey division of gaming enforcement (the dge ) investigation of our relationship with our joint venture partner in macau we entered into a settlement agreement with the dge under which we were required to sell our 50% ownership interest in borgata and related leased land in atlantic city. certain public and private issuances of securities and other transactions that we are party to also require the approval of some state regulatory authorities. in addition to gaming regulations, we are also subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. these laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, smoking, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. for example, illinois has enacted a ban on smoking in nearly all public places, including bars, restaurants, work places, schools and casinos. the likelihood or outcome of similar legislation in other jurisdictions and referendums in the future cannot be predicted, though any smoking ban would be expected to negatively impact our financial performance. our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside. our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending and corporate spending on conventions and business development. economic contraction, economic uncertainty or the perception by our customers of weak or weakening economic conditions may cause a decline in demand for hotel and casino resorts, trade shows and conventions, and for the type of luxury amenities we offer. in addition, changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as the increased cost of travel, an unstable job market, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism. aria, bellagio, mgm grand las vegas, mandalay bay and the mirage in particular may be affected by economic conditions in the far east, and all of our nevada resorts are affected by economic conditions in the united states, and california in particular. a recession, economic slowdown or any other significant economic condition affecting consumers or corporations generally is likely to cause a reduction in visitation to our resorts, which would adversely affect our operating results. for example, the recent recession and downturn in consumer and corporate spending has had a negative impact on our results of operations. in addition, the weak housing and real estate market both generally and in nevada particularly has negatively impacted citycenter ability to sell residential units. extreme weather conditions or climate change may cause property damage or interrupt business, which could harm our business and results of operations. certain of our casino properties are located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes. such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. although we maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such 15 table of contents extreme weather conditions. furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period. because our major gaming resorts are concentrated on the las vegas strip, we are subject to greater risks than a gaming company that is more geographically diversified. given that our major resorts are concentrated on the las vegas strip, our business may be significantly affected by risks common to the las vegas tourism industry. for example, the cost and availability of air services and the impact of any events which disrupt air travel to and from las vegas can adversely affect our business. we cannot control the number or frequency of flights into or out of las vegas, but we rely on air traffic for a significant portion of our visitors. reductions in flights by major airlines as a result of higher fuel prices and lower demand can impact the number of visitors to our resorts. additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between las vegas and southern california, where a large number of our customers reside. capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may also affect the number of customers who visit our facilities. investing through partnerships or joint ventures including citycenter and mgm macau decreases our ability to manage risk. in addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement our business directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, as a co-venturer. joint venturers often have shared control over the operation of the joint venture assets. therefore, the operation of a joint venture is subject to inherent risk due to the shared nature of the enterprise and the need to reach agreements on material matters. in addition, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. consequently, actions by a co-venturer might subject hotels and resorts owned by the joint venture to additional risk. further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. alternatively, our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. additionally, should a joint venture partner become bankrupt, we could become liable for our partner or co-venturer share of joint venture liabilities. for instance, citycenter, which is 50% owned and managed by us, has a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect its business and its ability to meet its obligations. if citycenter is unable to meet its financial commitments and we and our partners are unable to support future funding requirements, as necessary, such event could have adverse financial consequences to us. in addition, the agreements governing the indebtedness subject citycenter and its subsidiaries to significant financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on its ability to incur additional indebtedness, place liens upon assets, make distributions to us, make certain investments, consummate certain asset sales, enter into transactions with affiliates (including us) and merge or consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets. the citycenter amended and restated credit facility also requires citycenter to meet an interest coverage ratio test commencing on september 30, 2012. we cannot be sure that citycenter will be able to meet this test or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet the test. in addition, in accordance with our joint venture agreement and the citycenter credit facility, we provided a cost overrun guarantee which is secured by our interests in the assets of circus circus las vegas and certain adjacent undeveloped land. also, the operation of mgm macau, which is 50% owned by us, is subject to unique risks, including risks related to: (a) our ability to adapt to the different regulatory and gaming environment in macau while remaining in compliance with the requirements of the gaming regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate, as well as other applicable federal, state, or local laws in the united states and macau; (b) potential political or economic instability; and (c) the extreme weather conditions in the region. our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results. we are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. accordingly, increases in energy costs may have a negative impact on our operating results. additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices which affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues. 16 table of contents leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events, such as terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility. we are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel by air. since most of our customers travel by air to our las vegas and macau properties, any terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war, or any actual or perceived threat to the security of travel by air, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. furthermore, although we have been able to purchase some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism continues to be unavailable. we extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players. we conduct our gaming activities on a credit and cash basis. any such credit we extend is unsecured. table games players typically are extended more credit than slot players, and high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. high-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. we extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit. these large receivables could have a significant impact on our results of operations if deemed uncollectible. while gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a marker, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the full faith and credit clause of the u.s. constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the u.s. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from u.s. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. in addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future. although we have all risk property insurance coverage for our operating properties, which covers damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war, or terrorism), each policy has certain exclusions. in addition, our property insurance coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the facilities if there was a total loss. our level of insurance coverage also may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. in addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, acts of war, loss of income due to cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage and pollution, may not be covered at all under our policies. therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured losses. in addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties that may be injured or harmed. while we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in any such event. we renew our insurance policies (other than our builder risk insurance) on an annual basis. the cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. we face risks related to pending claims that have been, or future claims that may be, brought against us. claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries in various legal proceedings, and additional legal and tax claims arise from time to time. we may not be successful in the defense or prosecution of our current or future legal proceedings, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. please see the further discussion in item 3. legal proceedings. tracinda owns a significant amount of our common stock and may have interests that differ from the interests of other holders of our stock. as of december 31, 2010, tracinda beneficially owned approximately 27% of our outstanding common stock. should tracinda and its affiliates collectively cease to own more than 15% of our outstanding common stock, such an event will constitute a change of control under the indentures governing 17 table of contents certain of our outstanding secured notes. in that event, we would be required to offer to purchase those notes at 101% of the outstanding principal amount of those notes. in addition, tracinda may be able to exercise significant influence over us as a result of its significant ownership of our outstanding common stock. as a result, actions requiring stockholder approval that may be supported by other stockholders could be effectively blocked by tracinda. a significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements. work stoppages and other labor problems could negatively affect our business and results of operations. approximately 30,000 of our 61,000 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. a prolonged dispute with the covered employees could have an adverse impact on our operations. in addition, wage and or benefit increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations and to the extent that our non-union employees join unions, we would have greater exposure to risks associated with labor problems. the majority of our collective bargaining agreements expire in 2012. we are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the united states. our operations outside the united states are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business under non-united states laws, regulations and customs. in particular, the risks associated with the operation of mgm macau, which is 50% owned by us, or any future operations in which we may engage in any other foreign territories, include: - changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies in macau; - changes in non-united states government programs; - possible failure to comply with anti-bribery laws such as the united states foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions; - general economic conditions and policies in china, including restrictions on travel and currency movements; - difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non-united states operations; - different labor regulations; - changes in environmental, health and safety laws; - potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; - political instability and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; - economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations; and - uncertainties regarding judicial systems and procedures. these risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. for example, we are subject to compliance with the united states foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. while our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. we also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations by any of our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. we are also exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. if the united states dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other countries, our united states dollar reported income from sources where revenue is dominated in the currencies of other such countries will decrease. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we incorporate by reference the information appearing under market risk in item 7 of this form 10-k.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we incorporate by reference the information appearing under market risk in item 7 of this form 10-k.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we incorporate by reference the information appearing under market risk in item 7 of this form 10-k.risk factors risk factors we incorporate by reference the information appearing under factors that may affect our future results in item 1 of this form 10-k . quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we incorporate by reference the information appearing under market risk in item 7 of this form 10-k.risk factors risk factors we incorporate by reference the information appearing under factors that may affect our future results in item 1 of this form 10-k. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we incorporate by reference the information appearing under market risk in item 7 of this form 10-k.risk factors risk factors you should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the sec could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below. we have significant indebtedness . at december 31, 2007, we had approximately $11.2 billion of indebtedness. the interest rate on a large portion of our long-term debt will be subject to fluctuation based on changes in short-term interest rates and the level of debt-to-ebitda (as defined) under the provisions of our senior credit facility. our current senior credit facility and the indentures governing our debt securities do not prohibit us from borrowing additional funds in the future. our interest expense could increase as a result of these factors. additionally, our indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and industry, limit our ability to borrow additional funds, and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to other less leveraged competitors. our ability to reduce our outstanding debt will be subject to our future cash flows, other capital requirements and other factors, some of which are not within our control. 10 table of contents our casinos in las vegas and elsewhere are destination resorts that compete with other destination travel locations throughout the united states and the world . we do not believe that our competition is limited to a particular geographic area, and gaming operations in other states or countries could attract our customers. to the extent that new casinos enter our markets or hotel room capacity is expanded by others in major destination locations, competition will increase. major competitors, including new entrants, have either recently expanded their hotel room capacity or are currently expanding their capacity or constructing new resorts in las vegas. also, the recent growth of gaming in areas outside las vegas, including california, has increased the competition faced by our operations in las vegas and elsewhere. in particular, as large scale gaming operations in native american tribal lands increase, competition will increase. the expansion of native american gaming in california has already impacted our operations . according to the california gambling control commission, more than 60 compacts with tribes had been approved by the federal government as of december 31, 2007, with more than 50 of the tribes legally operating casinos in california in accordance with these compacts. additional expansion of gaming in california could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. the ownership and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances, which are administered by the relevant regulatory agencies in each jurisdiction. these laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. as such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators. in addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates in any jurisdiction could have a negative impact on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. for a summary of gaming regulations that affect our business, see regulation and licensing. the regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to various gaming taxes, which are subject to possible increase at any time. our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the locations our customers reside . bellagio, mgm grand las vegas, mandalay bay and the mirage are particularly affected by economic conditions in the far east, and all of our nevada resorts are affected by economic conditions in the united states, and california in particular. a recession, economic slowdown or other economic issues affecting consumers could cause a reduction in visitation to our resorts, which would adversely affect our operating results. for example, the current downturn in the real estate market in nevada, and the broader housing and credit market issues in the united states, could have a negative impact on our citycenter joint venture ability to sell residential units on the las vegas strip and could negatively impact our customers visitation and spending patterns. certain of our casino properties are located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes . such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. although we maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such extreme weather conditions. furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period. for example, in august 2005, hurricane katrina caused significant damage to our beau rivage resort, which remained closed for a year. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations financial statement impact of hurricane katrina. we are a large consumer of electricity and other energy . accordingly, increases in energy costs, such as those experienced recently, may have a negative impact on our operating results. additionally, higher energy and gasoline prices which affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues. many of our customers travel by air. as a result, the cost and availability of air service and the impact of any events which disrupt air travel can affect our business . additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between las vegas and southern california, where a large number of our customers reside. capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may affect the number of customers who visit our facilities. 11 table of contents leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events, such as terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility, which can create economic and political uncertainties that could adversely impact our business levels . furthermore, although we have been able to purchase some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism continues to be unavailable. our joint venture in macau s.a.r. involves significant risks . the operations of mgm grand macau, 50% owned by us, are subject to unique risks, including risks related to: (a) macau regulatory framework; (b) our ability to adapt to the different regulatory and gaming environment in macau while remaining in compliance with the requirements of the gaming regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate, as well as other applicable federal, state, or local laws in the united states and macau; (c) potential political or economic instability; and (d) the extreme weather conditions in the region. furthermore, such operations in macau or any future operations in which we may engage in any other foreign territories are subject to risk pertaining to international operations. these may include financial risks: foreign economy, adverse tax consequences, inability to adequately enforce our rights; or regulatory and political risks: foreign government regulations, general geopolitical risks such as political and economic instability, hostilities with neighboring counties, and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships. our plans for future construction can be affected by a number of factors, including time delays in obtaining necessary governmental permits and approvals and legal challenges . we may make changes in project scope, budgets and schedules for competitive, aesthetic or other reasons, and these changes may also result from circumstances beyond our control. these circumstances include weather interference, shortages of materials and labor, work stoppages, labor disputes, unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems, and unanticipated cost increases. any of these circumstances could give rise to delays or cost overruns. major expansion projects at our existing resorts can also result in disruption of our business during the construction period. claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries in various legal proceedings, and additional legal and tax claims arise from time to time. it is possible that our cash flows and results of operations could be affected by the resolution of these claims . we believe that the ultimate disposition of current matters will not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. please see the further discussion under legal proceedings. tracinda corporation beneficially owned approximately 52% of our outstanding common stock as of december 31, 2007 . as a result, tracinda corporation has the ability to elect our entire board of directors and determine the outcome of other matters submitted to our stockholders, such as the approval of significant transactions. a significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements. approximately 31,300 of our 67,400 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. a prolonged dispute with the covered employees could have an adverse impact on our operations. in addition, wage and or benefit increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations. for example, in august 2007, we entered a new five-year collective bargaining agreement covering approximately 21,000 of our las vegas strip employees. this does not include the collective bargaining agreement covering employees at mgm grand las vegas, which expires in 2008. the new agreement is retroactive to may 31, 2007 and provides for average annual increases in wages and benefits of approximately 4%. in addition, in october 2007 we entered into a new four-year labor agreement covering approximately 2,900 employees at mgm grand detroit which provides for average annual increases in wages and benefits of approximately 6%. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we incorporate by reference the information appearing under market risk in item 7 of this form 10-k.risk factors risk factors you should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the sec could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below. our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations. as of december 31, 2008, we had approximately $13.5 billion of indebtedness. in late february 2009, we borrowed $842 million under our senior credit facility, which amount represented after giving effect to $93 million in outstanding letters of credit the total amount of unused borrowing capacity available under our $7.0 billion senior credit facility. in connection with the waiver and amendment described below, on march 17, 2009 we repaid $300 million under the senior credit facility, which amount is not available for reborrowing without the consent of the lenders. we have no other existing sources of borrowing availability, except to the extent we pay down further amounts outstanding under the senior credit facility. as of december 31, 2008, we had approximately $2.8 billion of financial commitments and estimated capital expenditures in 2009, excluding commitments under employment, entertainment and other operational agreements. furthermore, the interest rate applicable to our borrowings under the senior credit facility is based on variable reference rates and our leverage ratio. any increase in the interest rates applicable to our existing or future borrowings would increase the cost of our indebtedness and reduce the cash flow available to fund our other liquidity needs. our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could have important negative consequences, including: increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to other less leveraged competitors. our senior credit facility contains financial covenants, and we do not expect to be in compliance with such financial covenants in 2009. while we were in compliance with the financial covenants under our senior credit facility at december 31, 2008, if the recent adverse conditions in the economy in general and the gaming industry in particular continue, we believe that we will not be in compliance with those financial covenants during 2009. in fact, given these conditions and the recent borrowing under the senior credit facility, we do not expect to be in compliance with those financial covenants at march 31, 2009. as a result, on march 17, 2009 we obtained from the lenders under the senior credit facility a waiver of the requirement that we comply with such financial covenants through may 15, 2009. additionally, we entered into an amendment of our senior credit facility which provides for, among other terms, the following: we agreed to repay $300 million of the outstanding borrowings under the senior credit facility, which amount is not available for reborrowing without the consent of the lenders; we are prohibited from prepaying or repurchasing our outstanding long-term debt or disposing of material assets; and other restrictive covenants were added that limit our ability to make investments and incur indebtedness; 12 table of contents the interest rate on outstanding borrowings under the senior credit facility was increased by 100 basis points; and our required equity contributions in citycenter are limited through may 15, 2009 such that we can only make contributions if infinity world makes its required contributions; our equity contributions do not exceed specified amounts (though we believe the limitation is in excess of the amounts expected to be required through may 15, 2009); and the citycenter senior secured credit facility has not been accelerated. following expiration of the waiver on may 15, 2009, we will be subject to an event of default related to the expected noncompliance with financial covenants under the senior credit facility at march 31, 2009. we intend to work with our lenders to obtain additional waivers or amendments prior to may 15, 2009 to address future noncompliance with the senior credit facility; however, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to secure such waivers or amendments. the lenders holding at least a majority of the principal amount under our senior credit facility could, among other actions, accelerate the obligation to repay borrowings under our senior credit facility in such an event of default. as a result of such event of default, under certain circumstances, cross defaults could occur under our indentures and the citycenter $1.8 billion senior secured credit facility, which could accelerate the obligation to repay amounts outstanding under such indentures and the citycenter credit facility and could result in termination of the unfunded commitments under the citycenter credit facility. if the lenders exercise any or all such rights, we or citycenter may determine to seek relief through a filing under the u.s. bankruptcy code. there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern . the uncertainties described above regarding 1) our ability to meet our financial commitments, and 2) our potential noncompliance with financial covenants under our senior credit facility, raise a substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. the accompanying consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classifications of liabilities that may result should we be unable to continue as a going concern. as a result, the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2008 contains an explanatory paragraph with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. we can provide no assurance that we will be able to secure a waiver or amendment related to potential noncompliance under our senior credit facility or be able to address our 2009 financial commitments in such a way as to be able to continue as a going concern. current economic conditions adversely impact our ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make planned expenditures. our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness and to fund planned or committed capital expenditures and investments in joint ventures, such as citycenter, depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future and our ability to borrow under our senior credit facility to the extent of available borrowings. if adverse regional and national economic conditions persist, worsen, or fail to improve significantly, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants which we are subject to under our indebtedness. we cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. our casinos in las vegas and elsewhere are destination resorts that compete with other destination travel locations throughout the united states and the world. we do not believe that our competition is limited to a particular geographic area, and gaming operations in other states or countries could attract our customers. to the extent that new casinos enter our markets or hotel room capacity is expanded by others in major destination locations, competition will increase. major competitors, including new entrants, have either recently expanded their hotel room capacity or are currently expanding their capacity or constructing new resorts in las vegas. also, the growth of gaming in areas outside las vegas, including california, has increased the competition faced by our operations in las vegas and elsewhere. in particular, as large scale gaming operations in native american tribal lands has increased, particularly in california, competition has increased. 13 table of contents the ownership and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances, which are administered by the relevant regulatory agencies in each jurisdiction. these laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. as such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators. in addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates in any jurisdiction could have a negative impact on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. for a summary of gaming regulations that affect our business, see regulation and licensing. the regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to various gaming taxes, which are subject to possible increase at any time. our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the locations our customers reside. bellagio, mgm grand las vegas, mandalay bay and the mirage are particularly affected by economic conditions in the far east, and all of our nevada resorts are affected by economic conditions in the united states, and california in particular. a recession, economic slowdown or other economic issues affecting consumers is likely to cause a reduction in visitation to our resorts, which would adversely affect our operating results. for example, the downturn in consumer spending and economic conditions that existed in 2008, and is expected to continue in 2009, has had a negative impact on our results of operations. in addition, the weak housing and real estate market both generally and in nevada particularly has negatively impacted citycenter ability to sell residential units. certain of our casino properties are located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes. such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. although we maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such extreme weather conditions. furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period. we are a large consumer of electricity and other energy. accordingly, increases in energy costs, such as those experienced in 2007 and 2008, may have a negative impact on our operating results. additionally, higher energy and gasoline prices which affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues. many of our customers travel by air. as a result, the cost and availability of air service and the impact of any events which disrupt air travel can affect our business. we cannot control the number or frequency of flights into or out of las vegas, but we rely on air traffic for a significant portion or our visitors. reductions in flights by major airlines, such as those implemented in 2008 as a result of higher fuel prices and lower demand, can impact the number of visitors to our resorts. additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between las vegas and southern california, where a large number of our customers reside. capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may also affect the number of customers who visit our facilities. leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events, such as terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility. these events can create economic and political uncertainties that could adversely impact our business levels. furthermore, although we have been able to purchase some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism continues to be unavailable. 14 table of contents our city center joint venture involves significant risks. the development and ultimate operation of citycenter is subject to unique risk given the scope of the development and financing requirements placed on us and our partner, infinity world. if we or our partner are unable to meet our funding requirements or if city center $1.8 billion senior secured credit facility is terminated for instance, due to cross defaults at the partner level then this could cause the development of citycenter to be delayed or suspended indefinitely. such an event could have adverse financial consequences to us. our joint venture in macau s.a.r. involves significant risks. the operation of mgm grand macau, 50% owned by us, is subject to unique risks, including risks related to: (a) macau regulatory framework; (b) our ability to adapt to the different regulatory and gaming environment in macau while remaining in compliance with the requirements of the gaming regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate, as well as other applicable federal, state, or local laws in the united states and macau; (c) potential political or economic instability; and (d) the extreme weather conditions in the region. furthermore, such operations in macau or any future operations in which we may engage in any other foreign territories are subject to risk pertaining to international operations. these may include financial risks, such as foreign economy, adverse tax consequences, and inability to adequately enforce our rights. these may also include regulatory and political risks, such as foreign government regulations, general geopolitical risks such as political and economic instability, hostilities with neighboring counties, and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships. our plans for future construction can be affected by a number of factors, including time delays in obtaining necessary governmental permits and approvals and legal challenges. we may make changes in project scope, budgets and schedules for competitive, aesthetic or other reasons, and these changes may also result from circumstances beyond our control. these circumstances include weather interference, shortages of materials and labor, work stoppages, labor disputes, unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems, and unanticipated cost increases. any of these circumstances could give rise to delays or cost overruns. major expansion projects at our existing resorts can also result in disruption of our business during the construction period. claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries in various legal proceedings, and additional legal and tax claims arise from time to time. it is possible that our cash flows and results of operations could be affected by the resolution of these claims. please see the further discussion in item 3. legal proceedings. tracinda corporation beneficially owned approximately 54% of our outstanding common stock as of december 31, 2008. as a result, tracinda corporation has the ability to elect our entire board of directors and determine the outcome of other matters submitted to our stockholders, such as the approval of significant transactions. a significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements. approximately 30,000 of our 61,000 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. a prolonged dispute with the covered employees could have an adverse impact on our operations. in addition, wage and or benefit increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations. the collective bargaining agreement covering approximately 4,000 employees at mgm grand las vegas expired in 2008. we have signed an extension of such agreement and are currently negotiating a new agreement. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we incorporate by reference the information appearing under market risk in item 7 of this form 10-k.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we incorporate by reference the information appearing under "market risk" in item 7 of this form 10-k. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors you should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the sec could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial positions, results of operations or cash flows. in evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below. risks related to our substantial indebtedness our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations. as of december 31, 2011, we had approximately $13.6 billion principal amount of indebtedness outstanding, including $3.3 billion of borrowings outstanding under our senior credit facility. these amounts include the december 2011 borrowing of $778 million under our senior credit facility to increase our capacity for issuing additional secured indebtedness; these borrowings were repaid shortly after year end. giving effect to the subsequent repayment, we would have had approximately $957 million of available borrowing capacity under our senior credit facility at december 31, 2011. we have no other existing sources of borrowing availability, except to the extent we pay down further amounts outstanding under the senior credit facility. any increase in the interest rates applicable to our existing or future borrowings would increase the cost of our indebtedness and reduce the cash flow available to fund our other liquidity needs. in addition, as of december 31, 2011, mgm grand paradise, s.a. ("mgm grand paradise"), the company that owns and operates mgm macau, had approximately $552 million of debt outstanding under its term loan credit facility. we do not guarantee mgm grand paradise's obligations under its credit agreement and, to the extent mgm macau were to cease to produce cash flow sufficient to service its indebtedness, our ability to make additional investments into that entity is limited by the negative covenants in our existing debt instruments. see "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" for discussion of our liquidity and financial position. in addition, our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could have important negative consequences, including: increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; or placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less-leveraged competitors. moreover, our businesses are capital intensive. for our owned and managed resorts to remain attractive and competitive, we must periodically invest significant capital to keep the properties well-maintained, modernized and refurbished. such investment requires an ongoing supply of cash and, to the extent that we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. similarly, future development projects and acquisitions could require significant capital commitments, the incurrence of additional debt, guarantees of third-party debt, or the incurrence of contingent liabilities, any or all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. current and future economic and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make planned expenditures and investments. our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness and to fund capital expenditures and other investments depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, our ability to receive distributions from joint ventures and our ability to borrow under our senior credit facility. if adverse regional and national economic conditions persist, worsen, or fail to improve significantly, we could 16 experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our indebtedness. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, receive distributions from joint ventures or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. we have a significant amount of indebtedness maturing in 2013 and 2014 and thereafter. our ability to timely refinance and replace such indebtedness will depend upon the foregoing as well as on continued and sustained improvements in financial markets. events over the past several years, including the failures and near failures of financial services companies and the decrease in liquidity and available capital, have negatively affected the capital markets. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on a timely basis, we might be forced to seek alternate forms of financing, dispose of certain assets or minimize capital expenditures or other investments. there is no assurance that any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms, on terms that would not be disadvantageous to investors, or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements. the agreements governing our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity, and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations. covenants governing our senior credit facility and certain of our debt securities restrict, among other things, our ability to: pay dividends or distributions, repurchase or issue equity, prepay debt or make certain investments; incur additional debt or issue certain disqualified stock and preferred stock; incur liens on assets; pledge or sell assets or consolidate with another company or sell all or substantially all assets; enter into transactions with affiliates; allow certain subsidiaries to transfer assets; and enter into sale and lease-back transactions. our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. the breach of any such covenants or obligations not otherwise waived or cured could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. any default under the senior credit facility or the indentures governing our other debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt, and could force us to seek protection under the bankruptcy laws. in addition, mgm grand paradise's credit facility contains covenants that restrict its ability to engage in certain transactions. in particular, the mgm grand paradise credit facility requires mgm grand paradise and certain of its subsidiaries to satisfy various financial covenants, including a maximum adjusted leverage ratio and minimum debt service ratio, and imposes certain operating and financial restrictions on mgm grand paradise and its subsidiaries, including, among other things, limitations on its ability to pay dividends or distributions to us, incur additional debt, make investments or engage in other businesses, merge or consolidate with other companies, or transfer or sell assets. risks related to our business we face significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete, and failure to effectively compete could materially 17 adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. the hotel, resort and casino industries are highly competitive. we do not believe that our competition is limited to a particular geographic area, and hotel, resort and gaming operations in other states or countries could attract our customers. to the extent that new casinos enter our markets or hotel room capacity is expanded by others in major destination locations, competition will increase. major competitors, including new entrants, have either recently expanded their hotel room capacity or are currently expanding their capacity or constructing new resorts in las vegas and macau. also, the growth of gaming in areas outside las vegas, including california, has increased the competition faced by our operations in las vegas and elsewhere. in particular, as large scale gaming operations in native american tribal lands has increased, particularly in california, competition has increased. in addition, competition could increase if changes in gaming restrictions in the u.s. and elsewhere result in the addition of new gaming establishments located closer to our customers than our casinos, such as has happened in california. for example, while our macau operations compete to some extent with casinos located elsewhere in asia, including singapore, australia and new zealand, certain countries in the region have legalized casino gaming (including malaysia, vietnam, and cambodia) and others (such as japan, taiwan and thailand) may legalize casino gaming in the future. furthermore, currently mgm grand paradise holds one of only six gaming concessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions, we would face increased competition. in addition to competition with other hotels, resorts and casinos, we compete with destination travel locations outside of the markets in which we operate. our failure to compete successfully in our various markets and to continue to attract customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. we are restricted from having any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in china, macau, hong kong and taiwan, other than through mgm china. in connection with the initial public offering of mgm china, the holding company that indirectly owns and operates mgm macau, we entered into a deed of non-compete undertakings with mgm china and ms. pansy ho pursuant to which we are restricted from having any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in the people's republic of china, macau, hong kong and taiwan, other than through mgm china. while gaming is currently prohibited in china, hong kong and taiwan, if it is legalized in the future our ability to compete with our competitors in these locations could be limited until the earlier of (i) march 31, 2020, (ii) the date mgm china's ordinary shares cease to be listed on the stock exchange of hong kong limited or (iii) or the date when our ownership of mgm china shares is less than 20% of the then issued share capital of mgm china. our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. our ownership and operation of gaming facilities is subject to extensive regulation by the countries, states and provinces in which we operate. these laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. as such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators or, alternatively, cease operations in that jurisdiction. in addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates in any jurisdiction could have a negative effect on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. the regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to various gaming taxes, which are subject to possible increase at any time by various state and federal legislatures and officials. increases in gaming taxation could also adversely affect our results. for a summary of gaming and other regulations that affect our business, see "regulation and licensing." 18 further, our directors, officers, key employees and joint venture partners must meet approval standards of certain state and foreign regulatory authorities. if state regulatory authorities were to find such a person or joint venture partner unsuitable, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person or the joint venture partner may be required to dispose of their interest in the joint venture. state regulatory agencies may conduct investigations into the conduct or associations of our directors, officers, key employees or joint venture partners to ensure compliance with applicable standards. for example, as a result of the new jersey division of gaming enforcement (the "dge") investigation of our relationship with our joint venture partner in macau, we entered into a settlement agreement with the dge under which we were required to sell our 50% ownership interest in borgata and related leased land in atlantic city. on august 8, 2011, the new jersey casino control commission approved an amendment to the settlement agreement which extends the time within which the sale of the trust property must occur by 18 months, so that until march 24, 2013 we have the right to direct the trustee to sell the trust property, but, if the sale is not concluded by that date, the trustee will sell such interests within the following 12 months. certain public and private issuances of securities and other transactions also require the approval of certain regulatory authorities. in macau, current laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming concessions are, for the most part, fairly recent and there is little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and regulations. these laws and regulations are complex, and a court or administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue new or modified regulations, that differ from mgm china's interpretation, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, mgm china's activities in macau are subject to administrative review and approval by various government agencies. we cannot assure you that mgm china will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, which may materially affect its long-term business strategy and operations. macau laws permit redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions; however, such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming issues. in addition to gaming regulations, we are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. these laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, smoking, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. we also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. any violations of anti-money laundering laws or regulations by any of our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. for example, illinois has enacted a ban on smoking in nearly all public places, including bars, restaurants, work places, schools and casinos. the likelihood or outcome of similar legislation in other jurisdictions and referendums in the future cannot be predicted, though any smoking ban would be expected to negatively impact our financial performance. our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside. our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending and corporate spending on conventions and business development. economic contraction, economic uncertainty or the perception by our customers of weak or weakening economic conditions may cause a decline in demand for hotels, casino resorts, trade shows and conventions, and for the type of luxury amenities we offer. in addition, changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as the increased cost of travel, an unstable job market, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism. aria, bellagio, mgm grand las vegas, mandalay bay and the mirage in particular may be affected by economic conditions in the far 19 east, and all of our nevada resorts are affected by economic conditions in the united states, and california in particular. a recession, economic slowdown or any other significant economic condition affecting consumers or corporations generally is likely to cause a reduction in visitation to our resorts, which would adversely affect our operating results. for example, the recent recession and downturn in consumer and corporate spending has had a negative impact on our results of operations. in addition, the weak housing and real estate market both generally and in nevada particularly has negatively impacted citycenter's ability to sell residential units. in addition, since we expect a significant number of customers to come to mgm macau from mainland china, general economic and market conditions in china could impact our financial prospects. any slowdown in economic growth or changes to china's current restrictions on travel and currency movements could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland china to mgm macau as well as the amounts they are willing to spend in the casino. for example, in may and july 2008, china readjusted its visa policy toward macau and limited the number of visits that some mainland chinese citizens may make to macau in a given time period. in september 2008, it was publicly announced that mainland chinese citizens with a hong kong visa (but not a macau visa) could no longer enter macau from hong kong. in addition, in may 2009, china also began to restrict the operation of "below-cost" tour groups involving low up-front payments and compulsory shopping, which were popular among visitors to macau from mainland china. it is unclear whether these and other measures will continue to be in effect, or become more restrictive, in the future. these developments have had, and any future policy developments that may be implemented may have, the effect of reducing the number of visitors to macau from mainland china, which could adversely impact tourism and the gaming industry in macau. the macau government can terminate mgm grand paradise's subconcession under certain circumstances without compensating mgm grand paradise, the macau government can exercise its redemption right with respect to the subconcession in 2017 or the macau government can refuse to grant mgm grand paradise an extension of the subconsession in 2020, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the subconcession in the event of fundamental non-compliance by mgm grand paradise with applicable macau laws or mgm grand paradise's basic obligations under the subconcession contract. mgm grand paradise has the opportunity to remedy any such non-compliance with its fundamental obligations under the subconcession contract within a period to be stipulated by the macau government. upon such termination, all of mgm grand paradise's casino area premises and gaming-related equipment would be transferred automatically to the macau government without compensation to mgm grand paradise, and we would cease to generate any revenues from these operations. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will perform all of its obligations under the subconcession contract in a way that satisfies the requirements of the macau government. furthermore, under the subconcession contract, mgm grand paradise is obligated to comply with any laws and regulations that the macau government might promulgate in the future. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will be able to comply with these laws and regulations or that these laws and regulations would not adversely affect our ability to construct or operate our macau businesses. if any disagreement arises between mgm grand paradise and the macau government regarding the interpretation of, or mgm grand paradise's compliance with, a provision of the subconcession contract, mgm grand paradise will be relying on a consultation and negotiation process with the macau government. during any consultation or negotiation, mgm grand paradise will be obligated to comply with the terms of the subconcession contract as interpreted by the macau government. currently, there is no precedent concerning how the macau government will treat the termination of a concession or subconcession upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances mentioned above. the loss of the subconcession would require us to cease 20 conducting gaming operations in macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the subconcession contract expires on march 31, 2020. unless the subconcession is extended, or legislation with regard to reversion of casino premises is amended, all of mgm grand paradise's casino premises and gaming-related equipment will automatically be transferred to the macau government on that date without compensation to us, and we will cease to generate any revenues from such gaming operations. beginning on april 20, 2017, the macau government may redeem the subconcession contract by providing us at least one year's prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, mgm grand paradise is entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of gaming and non-gaming revenue generated by mgm grand paradise, excluding the convention and exhibition facilities, during the taxable year prior to the redemption, before deducting interest, depreciation and amortization, multiplied by the number of remaining years before expiration of the subconcession. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will be able to renew or extend the subconcession contract on terms favorable to mgm grand paradise or at all. we also cannot assure you that if the subconcession is redeemed, the compensation paid to mgm grand paradise will be adequate to compensate for the loss of future revenues. extreme weather conditions or climate change may cause property damage or interrupt business, which could harm our business and results of operations. certain of our casino properties are located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes in the united states and severe typhoons in macau. such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. although we maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such extreme weather conditions. furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results. we are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. accordingly, increases in energy costs may have a negative impact on our operating results. additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices that affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues. because our major gaming resorts are concentrated on the las vegas strip, we are subject to greater risks than a gaming company that is more geographically diversified. given that our major resorts are concentrated on the las vegas strip, our business may be significantly affected by risks common to the las vegas tourism industry. for example, the cost and availability of air services and the impact of any events that disrupt air travel to and from las vegas can adversely affect our business. we cannot control the number or frequency of flights to or from las vegas, but we rely on air traffic for a significant portion or our visitors. reductions in flights by major airlines as a result of higher fuel prices or lower demand can impact the number of visitors to our resorts. additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between las vegas and southern california, where a large number of our customers reside. capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may also affect the number of customers who visit our facilities. 21 we extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables. we conduct a portion of our gaming activities on a credit basis through the issuance of markers which are unsecured instruments. table games players typically are issued more markers than slot players, and high-end players typically are issued more markers than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. high-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. we issue markers to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit. in addition, mgm grand paradise extends credit to certain gaming promoters and those promoters can extend credit to their customers. uncollectible receivables from high-end customers and gaming promoters could have a significant impact on our results of operations. while gaming debts evidenced by markers and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the full faith and credit clause of the u.s. constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the u.s. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from u.s. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. furthermore, we expect that mgm macau will be able to enforce its gaming debts only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent mgm macau gaming customers and gaming promoters are from other jurisdictions, mgm macau may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and mgm macau may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. moreover, under applicable law, mgm macau remains obligated to pay taxes on uncollectible winnings from customers. even where gaming debts are enforceable, they may not be collectible. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. mgm grand paradise is dependent upon gaming junket operators for a significant portion of gaming revenues in macau. junket operators, who promote gaming and draw high-end customers to casinos, are responsible for a significant portion of mgm grand paradise's gaming revenues in macau. with the rise in gaming in macau, the competition for relationships with junket operators has increased. while mgm grand paradise is undertaking initiatives to strengthen relationships with junket operators, there can be no assurance that it will be able to maintain, or grow, relationships with junket operators. if mgm grand paradise is unable to maintain or grow relationships with junket operators, or if junket operators are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our high-end customers, mgm grand paradise's ability to grow gaming revenues will be hampered. in addition, the quality of junket operators is important to mgm grand paradise's and our reputation and ability to continue to operate in compliance with gaming licenses. while mgm grand paradise strives for excellence in associations with junket operators, we cannot assure you that the junket operators with whom mgm grand paradise is associated will meet the high standards insisted upon. if a junket operator falls below mgm grand paradise's standards, mgm grand paradise or we may suffer reputational harm or possibly sanctions from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events, such as terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility. we are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel by air. since most of our customers travel by air to our las vegas and macau properties, any terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war, or any actual or perceived 22 threat to the security of travel by air, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. furthermore, although we have been able to purchase some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism continues to be unavailable. investing through partnerships or joint ventures including citycenter decreases our ability to manage risk. in addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement our business directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, as a co-venturer. joint venturers often have shared control over the operation of the joint venture assets. therefore, the operation of a joint venture is subject to inherent risk due to the shared nature of the enterprise and the need to reach agreements on material matters. in addition, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. consequently, actions by a co-venturer might subject hotels and resorts owned by the joint venture to additional risk. further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. alternatively, our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. additionally, should a joint venture partner become bankrupt, we could become liable for our partner's or co-venturer's share of joint venture liabilities. for instance, citycenter, which is 50% owned and managed by us, has a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect its business and its ability to meet its obligations. if citycenter is unable to meet its financial commitments and we and our partners are unable to support future funding requirements, as necessary, such event could have adverse financial consequences to us. in addition, the agreements governing the indebtedness subject citycenter and its subsidiaries to significant financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on its ability to incur additional indebtedness, place liens upon assets, make distributions to us, make certain investments, consummate certain asset sales, enter into transactions with affiliates (including us) and merge or consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets. the citycenter amended and restated credit facility also requires citycenter to meet an interest coverage ratio test commencing on september 30, 2012. we cannot be sure that citycenter will be able to meet this test or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet the test. in addition, in accordance with our joint venture agreement and the citycenter credit facility, we provided a cost overrun guarantee which is secured by our interests in the assets of circus circus las vegas and certain adjacent undeveloped land. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. in addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future. although we have "all risk" property insurance coverage for our operating properties, which covers damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war, or terrorism), each policy has certain exclusions. in addition, our property insurance coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the facilities if there was a total loss. our level of insurance coverage also may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. in addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, acts of war, loss of income due to cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage and pollution, may not be covered at all under our policies. therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured losses. 23 in addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties that may be injured or harmed. while we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in any such event. we renew our insurance policies (other than our builder's risk insurance) on an annual basis. the cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. citycenter has decided to abate the potential for structural collapse of the harmon in the event of a code-level earthquake by demolishing the building, and we are exposed to risks prior to or in connection with the demolition process. after partial construction of the harmon, citycenter discovered that in certain elements of the building (known as link beams) the reinforcing steel had been installed incorrectly by citycenter's general contractor perini building company ("perini") and its subcontractors. after additional structural defects in other areas of the harmon were discovered, further construction at the harmon was indefinitely stopped. during the third quarter of 2010, citycenter determined that the harmon was unlikely to be completed using the existing partially completed structure as it now stands. a consulting engineer engaged by citycenter in 2011 to conduct a review requested by the clark county building division (the "building division") opined, among other things, that "[i]n a code-level earthquake, using either the permitted or current code specified loads, it is likely that critical structural members in the tower will fail and become incapable of supporting gravity loads, leading to a partial or complete collapse of the tower. there is missing or misplaced reinforcing steel in columns, beams, shear walls, and transfer walls throughout the structure of the tower below the twenty-first floor." in response to this opinion, the building division required citycenter to provide a plan of action to abate the potential for structural collapse of the harmon. after expert consultation, we informed the building division that we have decided to abate the potential for structural collapse of the harmon by demolishing the building, subject to the receipt of court approval. a partial or complete collapse of the harmon prior to demolition, or the demolition process itself, could result in property damage or injury, which could have a material adverse effect on citycenter's and our business and/or cause reputational harm to citycenter and us. citycenter's senior credit facility provides that certain demolition expenses may be funded only by equity contributions from its members or certain specified extraordinary receipts (which include any proceeds from the perini litigation). we face risks related to pending claims that have been, or future claims that may be, brought against us. claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries in various legal proceedings, and additional legal and tax claims arise from time to time. we may not be successful in the defense or prosecution of our current or future legal proceedings, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. please see the further discussion "legal proceedings." tracinda owns a significant amount of our common stock and may have interests that differ from the interests of other holders of our stock. according to public filings, as of december 31, 2011, tracinda corporation beneficially owned approximately 23% of our outstanding common stock. should tracinda and its affiliates collectively cease to own more than 15% of our outstanding common stock, such an event will constitute a "change of control" under the indentures governing certain of our outstanding secured notes. in that event, we would be required to offer to purchase those notes at 101% of the outstanding principal amount of those notes. in addition, tracinda may be able to exercise significant influence over us as a result of its significant ownership of our outstanding common stock. as a result, actions requiring stockholder approval that may be supported by other stockholders might be effectively blocked by tracinda corporation. 24 conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of mgm china, the holding company for mgm grand paradise which owns and operates mgm macau. as a result of the initial public offering of shares of mgm china common stock, mgm china now has stockholders who are not affiliated with us, and we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of mgm china may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of mgm china. decisions that could have different implications for us and mgm china, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with mgm china, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest or an actual conflict of interest. we are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the united states. our operations outside of the united states are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business under non-united states laws, regulations and customs. in particular, the risks associated with the operation of mgm macau or any future operations in which we may engage in any other foreign territories, include: changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies in macau; changes in non-united states government programs; possible failure to comply with anti-bribery laws such as the united states foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions; general economic conditions and policies in china, including restrictions on travel and currency movements; difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non-united states operations; different labor regulations; changes in environmental, health and safety laws; potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; political instability and actual or anticipated military and political conflicts; economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations; and uncertainties regarding judicial systems and procedures. these risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are also exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. if the united states dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other countries, our united states dollar reported income from sources where revenue is dominated in the currencies of other such countries will decrease. any violation of the foreign corrupt practices act could have a negative impact on us. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from operations outside the united states, which exposes us to complex foreign and u.s. regulations inherent in doing cross-border business and in each of the countries in which we transact business. we are subject to compliance with the united states foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and other similar anti-corruption laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. while our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. violations of these laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties, and the sec and u.s. department of justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the fcpa. the occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. we are also exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. if the united states dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other 25 countries, our united states dollar reported income from sources where revenue is dominated in the currencies of other such countries will decrease. a significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements. work stoppages and other labor problems could negatively affect our business and results of operations. approximately 30,000 of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. a prolonged dispute with the covered employees could have an adverse impact on our operations. in addition, wage and or benefit increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations and to the extent that our non-union employees join unions, we would have greater exposure to risks associated with labor problems. the collective bargaining agreements covering most of our las vegas union employees expire in 2013 but are subject to renegotiation in 2012 under certain economic reopening clauses. failure to maintain the integrity of internal customer information could result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. we collect information relating to our guests for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. the collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the united states and other jurisdictions around the world. privacy regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. in addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us) or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. we may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long lived assets which could negatively affect our future profits. in accordance with the authoritative guidance for goodwill and other intangible assets, we test our goodwill and indefinite-lived assets for impairment annually or if a triggering event occurs. we perform annual testing for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year based upon september 30 information. significant negative trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates or lack of growth have resulted in write-downs and impairment charges in the past and, if one or more of such events occurs in the future, additional impairment charges may be required in future periods. if we are required to record additional impairment charges, this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations. any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business. the development of intellectual property is part of our overall business strategy, and we regard our intellectual property to be an important element of our success. while our business as a whole is not substantially dependent on any one trademark or combination of several of our trademarks or other intellectual property, we seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our business operations through the use of trademarks. we file applications for, and obtain trademarks in, the united states and in foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, parties may infringe our trademarks and our rights may be invalidated or unenforceable. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the united states. monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resource. we cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the united states and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. the unauthorized use or reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. 26 risk factors quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we incorporate by reference the information appearing under "market risk" in item 7 of this form 10-k. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors you should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the sec could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial positions, results of operations or cash flows. in evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below. risks related to our substantial indebtedness our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations. as of december 31, 2012, we had approximately $13.6 billion principal amount of indebtedness outstanding, including $2.8 billion of borrowings outstanding under our senior credit facility. we had approximately $1.2 billion of available borrowing capacity under our senior credit facility as of december 31, 2012. any increase in the interest rates applicable to our existing or future borrowings would increase the cost of our indebtedness and reduce the cash flow available to fund our other liquidity needs. in addition, as of december 31, 2012, mgm grand paradise, s.a. ("mgm grand paradise"), the company that owns and operates mgm macau, had approximately $554 million of debt outstanding under its amended and restated credit facility. we do not guarantee mgm china's obligations under its credit agreement and, to the extent mgm china were to cease to produce cash flow sufficient to service its indebtedness, our ability to make additional investments into that entity is limited by the negative covenants in our existing debt instruments. in addition, our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could have important negative consequences, including: increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; or placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less-leveraged competitors. moreover, our businesses are capital intensive. for our owned and managed resorts to remain attractive and competitive, we must periodically invest significant capital to keep the properties well-maintained, modernized and refurbished. such investment requires an ongoing supply of cash and, to the extent that we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. similarly, future development projects and acquisitions could require significant capital commitments, the incurrence of additional debt, guarantees of third-party debt, or the incurrence of contingent liabilities, any or all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. current and future economic and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make planned expenditures. our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness and to fund planned or committed capital expenditures and investments in joint ventures depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, our ability to receive distributions from joint ventures and our ability to borrow under our senior credit facility to the extent of available borrowings. if adverse regional and national economic conditions persist, worsen, or fail to improve significantly, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, continue to receive distributions from joint ventures or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. 16 we have a significant amount of indebtedness maturing in 2015 and thereafter. our ability to timely refinance and replace such indebtedness will depend upon the foregoing as well as on continued and sustained improvements in financial markets. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on a timely basis, we might be forced to seek alternate forms of financing, dispose of certain assets or minimize capital expenditures and other investments. there is no assurance that any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms, on terms that would not be disadvantageous to us, or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements. the agreements governing our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity, and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations. covenants governing our senior credit facility and certain of our debt securities restrict, among other things, our ability to: pay dividends or distributions, repurchase or issue equity, prepay debt or make certain investments; incur additional debt or issue certain disqualified stock and preferred stock; incur liens on assets; pledge or sell assets or consolidate with another company or sell all or substantially all assets; enter into transactions with affiliates; allow certain subsidiaries to transfer assets; and enter into sale and lease-back transactions. our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. the breach of any such covenants or obligations not otherwise waived or cured could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. any default under our senior credit facility or the indentures governing our other debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt, and could force us to seek protection under the bankruptcy laws. in addition, mgm grand paradise and mgm china are co-borrowers under an amended and restated credit facility which contains covenants that restrict their ability to engage in certain transactions. in particular, the mgm china amended and restated credit facility requires mgm china to satisfy various financial covenants, including a maximum consolidated total leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio, and imposes certain operating and financial restrictions on mgm grand paradise and its subsidiaries, including, among other things, limitations on its ability to pay dividends or distributions to us, incur additional debt, make investments or engage in other businesses, merge or consolidate with other companies, or transfer or sell assets. risks related to our business we face significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete, and failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. the hotel, resort and casino industries are highly competitive. we do not believe that our competition is limited to a particular geographic area, and hotel, resort and gaming operations in other states or countries could attract our customers. to the extent that new casinos enter our markets or hotel room capacity is expanded by others in major destination locations, competition will increase. major competitors, including new entrants, have either recently expanded their hotel room capacity or are currently expanding their capacity or constructing new resorts in las vegas and macau. also, the growth of gaming in areas outside las vegas, including california, has increased the competition faced by our operations in las vegas and elsewhere. in particular, as large scale gaming operations on native american tribal lands has increased, particularly in california, competition has increased. 17 in addition, competition could increase if changes in gaming restrictions in the u.s. and elsewhere result in the addition of new gaming establishments located closer to our customers than our casinos, such as has happened in california in the united states. outside the united states, while our macau operations compete to some extent with casinos located elsewhere in or near asia, including singapore, australia and new zealand, certain countries in the region have legalized casino gaming (including malaysia, vietnam, and cambodia) and others (such as japan, taiwan and thailand) may legalize casino gaming in the future. furthermore, currently mgm grand paradise holds one of only six gaming concessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or if current concessionaires and subconcessionaries open additional facilities (for example, the facilities currently being developed in cotai, macau), we would face increased competition. furthermore, most jurisdictions in which casino gaming is currently permitted place numerical and/or geographical limitations on the issuance of new gaming licenses. although a number of jurisdictions in the united states and foreign countries are considering legalizing or expanding casino gaming, in some cases new gaming operations may be restricted to specific locations and we expect that there will be intense competition for any attractive new opportunities (which may include acquisitions of existing properties) that do arise. in addition to competition with other hotels, resorts and casinos, we compete with destination travel locations outside of the markets in which we operate. our failure to compete successfully in our various markets and to continue to attract customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. our ownership and operation of gaming facilities is subject to extensive regulation by the countries, states and provinces in which we operate. these laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. as such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators or, alternatively, cease operations in that jurisdiction. in addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates in any jurisdiction could have a negative effect on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. the regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to various gaming taxes, which are subject to possible increase at any time by various state and federal legislatures and officials. increases in gaming taxation could also adversely affect our results. for a summary of gaming and other regulations that affect our business, see "regulation and licensing." further, our directors, officers, key employees and joint venture partners must meet approval standards of certain state and foreign regulatory authorities. if state regulatory authorities were to find such a person or joint venture partner unsuitable, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person or the joint venture partner may be required to dispose of his, her or its interest in the joint venture. state regulatory agencies may conduct investigations into the conduct or associations of our directors, officers, key employees or joint venture partners to ensure compliance with applicable standards. for example, as a result of the new jersey division of gaming enforcement (the "dge") investigation of our relationship with our joint venture partner in macau, we entered into a settlement agreement with the dge under which we were required to sell our 50% ownership interest in borgata and related leased land in atlantic city. on august 8, 2011, the new jersey casino control commission approved an amendment to the settlement agreement which extends the time within which the sale of the trust property must occur by 18 months, so that until march 24, 2013 we have the right to direct the trustee to sell the trust 18 property (the "divestiture period"), but, if the sale is not concluded by that date, the trustee will sell such interests within the following 12 months (the "terminal sale period"). on february 13, 2013, the settlement agreement was further amended to allow us to re-apply to the ccc for licensure in new jersey and to defer expiration of these periods pending the outcome of the licensure process. if the ccc denies our licensure request, then the divestiture period will immediately end, and the terminal sale period will immediately begin, which will result in our borgata interest being disposed of by the trustee pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement. certain public and private issuances of securities and other transactions also require the approval of certain regulatory authorities. in macau, current laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming concessions are, for the most part, fairly recent and there is little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and regulations. these laws and regulations are complex, and a court or administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue new or modified regulations, that differ from mgm china's interpretation, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, mgm china's activities in macau are subject to administrative review and approval by various government agencies. we cannot assure you that mgm china will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, and any such failure to do so may materially affect its long-term business strategy and operations. macau laws permit redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions; however, to date such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming issues. in addition to gaming regulations, we are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. these laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, smoking, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. for example, illinois has enacted a ban on smoking in nearly all public places, including bars, restaurants, work places, schools and casinos and, in january 2013, casinos in macau, including mgm china, implemented a smoking ban in which a portion of casino floors are to be designated non-smoking. the likelihood or outcome of similar legislation in other jurisdictions and referendums in the future cannot be predicted, though any smoking ban would be expected to negatively impact our financial performance. we also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. any violations of anti-money laundering laws or regulations by any of our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside. our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending and corporate spending on conventions and business development. economic contraction, economic uncertainty or the perception by our customers of weak or weakening economic conditions may cause a decline in demand for hotels, casino resorts, trade shows and conventions, and for the type of luxury amenities we offer. in addition, changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as the increased cost of travel, an unstable job or housing market, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism. aria, bellagio, mgm grand las vegas and the mirage in particular may be affected by economic conditions in the far east, and all of our nevada resorts are affected by economic conditions in the united states, and california in particular. a recession, economic slowdown or any other significant economic condition affecting consumers or corporations generally is likely to cause a reduction in visitation to our resorts, which would adversely affect our operating results. for example, the recent economic uncertainty has impacted consumer and corporate spending, which has had a negative impact on our results of 19 operations. in addition, the weak housing and real estate market both generally and in nevada particularly has negatively impacted citycenter's ability to sell residential units. in addition, since we expect a significant number of customers to come to mgm macau from mainland china, general economic and market conditions in china could impact our financial prospects. any slowdown in economic growth or changes to china's current restrictions on travel and currency movements could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland china to mgm macau as well as the amounts they are willing to spend in the casino. for example, in may and july 2008, china readjusted its visa policy toward macau and limited the number of visits that some mainland chinese citizens may make to macau in a given time period. in september 2008, it was publicly announced that mainland chinese citizens with a hong kong visa (but not a macau visa) could no longer enter macau from hong kong. in addition, in may 2009, china also began to restrict the operation of "below-cost" tour groups involving low up-front payments and compulsory shopping, which were popular among visitors to macau from mainland china. it is unclear whether these and other measures will continue to be in effect, or become more restrictive, in the future. these developments have had, and any future policy developments that may be implemented may have, the effect of reducing the number of visitors to macau from mainland china, which could adversely impact tourism and the gaming industry in macau. we have agreed not to have any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in china, macau, hong kong and taiwan, other than through mgm china. in connection with the initial public offering of mgm china, the holding company that indirectly owns and operates mgm macau, we entered into a deed of non-compete undertakings with mgm china and ms. pansy ho pursuant to which we are restricted from having any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in the people's republic of china, macau, hong kong and taiwan, other than through mgm china. while gaming is currently prohibited in china, hong kong and taiwan, if it is legalized in the future our ability to compete with our competitors in these locations could be limited until the earliest of (i) march 31, 2020, (ii) the date mgm china's ordinary shares cease to be listed on the stock exchange of hong kong limited or (iii) the date when our ownership of mgm china shares is less than 20% of the then issued share capital of mgm china. the macau government can terminate mgm grand paradise's subconcession under certain circumstances without compensating mgm grand paradise, the macau government can exercise its redemption right with respect to the subconcession in 2017 or the macau government can refuse to grant mgm grand paradise an extension of the subconcession in 2020, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the subconcession in the event of fundamental non-compliance by mgm grand paradise with applicable macau laws or mgm grand paradise's basic obligations under the subconcession contract. mgm grand paradise has the opportunity to remedy any such non-compliance with its fundamental obligations under the subconcession contract within a period to be stipulated by the macau government. upon such termination, all of mgm grand paradise's casino area premises and gaming-related equipment would be transferred automatically to the macau government without compensation to mgm grand paradise, and we would cease to generate any revenues from these operations. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will perform all of its obligations under the subconcession contract in a way that satisfies the requirements of the macau government. furthermore, under the subconcession contract, mgm grand paradise is obligated to comply with any laws and regulations that the macau government might promulgate in the future. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will be able to comply with these laws and regulations or that these laws and regulations would not adversely affect our ability to construct or operate our macau businesses. if any disagreement arises between mgm grand paradise and the macau government regarding the interpretation of, or mgm grand paradise's compliance with, a provision of the subconcession contract, mgm grand paradise will be relying on a consultation and negotiation 20 process with the macau government. during any consultation or negotiation, mgm grand paradise will be obligated to comply with the terms of the subconcession contract as interpreted by the macau government. currently, there is no precedent concerning how the macau government will treat the termination of a concession or subconcession upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances mentioned above. the loss of the subconcession would require us to cease conducting gaming operations in macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the subconcession contract expires on march 31, 2020. unless the subconcession is extended, or legislation with regard to reversion of casino premises is amended, all of mgm grand paradise's casino premises and gaming-related equipment will automatically be transferred to the macau government on that date without compensation to us, and we will cease to generate any revenues from such gaming operations. beginning on april 20, 2017, the macau government may redeem the subconcession contract by providing us at least one year's prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, mgm grand paradise is entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of gaming and non-gaming revenue generated by mgm grand paradise, excluding the convention and exhibition facilities, during the taxable year prior to the redemption, before deducting interest, depreciation and amortization, multiplied by the number of remaining years before expiration of the subconcession. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will be able to renew or extend the subconcession contract on terms favorable to mgm grand paradise or at all. we also cannot assure you that if the subconcession is redeemed, the compensation paid to mgm grand paradise will be adequate to compensate for the loss of future revenues. we are required to build and open our development in cotai, macau by january 2018. if we are unable to meet this deadline, and the deadline for the development is not extended, we may lose the land concession, which would prohibit us from operating any facilities developed under such land concession. the land concession for the approximately 17.8 acre site on cotai, macau was officially gazetted on january 9, 2013. if we are unable to build and open our proposed resort and casino by january 2018, and the deadline is not extended, the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the land concession contract. a loss of the land concession could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. mgm grand paradise is dependent upon gaming junket operators for a significant portion of gaming revenues in macau. junket operators, who promote gaming and draw high-end customers to casinos, are responsible for a significant portion of mgm grand paradise's gaming revenues in macau. with the rise in gaming in macau, the competition for relationships with junket operators has increased. while mgm grand paradise is undertaking initiatives to strengthen relationships with junket operators, there can be no assurance that it will be able to maintain, or grow, relationships with junket operators. if mgm grand paradise is unable to maintain or grow relationships with junket operators, or if junket operators are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our high-end customers, mgm grand paradise's ability to grow gaming revenues will be hampered. in addition, the quality of junket operators is important to mgm grand paradise's and our reputation and ability to continue to operate in compliance with gaming licenses. while mgm grand paradise strives for excellence in associations with junket operators, we cannot assure you that the junket operators with whom mgm grand paradise is or becomes associated with will meet the high standards insisted upon. if a junket operator falls below mgm grand paradise's standards, mgm grand paradise or we may suffer reputational harm or possibly sanctions from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. extreme weather conditions or climate change may cause property damage or interrupt business, which could harm our business and results of operations. certain of our casino properties are located in 21 areas that may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes in the united states and severe typhoons in macau. such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. although we maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such extreme weather conditions. furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. because our major domestic gaming resorts are concentrated on the las vegas strip, we are subject to greater risks than a gaming company that is more geographically diversified. as such, our business may be significantly affected by risks common to the las vegas tourism industry. for example, the cost and availability of air services and the impact of any events that disrupt air travel to and from las vegas can adversely affect our business. we cannot control the number or frequency of flights to or from las vegas, but we rely on air traffic for a significant portion of our visitors. reductions in flights by major airlines as a result of higher fuel prices or lower demand can impact the number of visitors to our resorts. additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between las vegas and southern california, where a large number of our customers reside. capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may also affect the number of customers who visit our facilities. we extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables. we conduct a portion of our gaming activities on a credit basis through the issuance of markers which are unsecured instruments. table games players typically are issued more markers than slot players, and high-end players typically are issued more markers than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. high-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. we issue markers to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit. in addition, mgm grand paradise extends credit to certain gaming promoters and those promoters can extend credit to their customers. uncollectible receivables from high-end customers and gaming promoters could have a significant impact on our results of operations. while gaming debts evidenced by markers and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the full faith and credit clause of the u.s. constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the u.s. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from u.s. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations and even where gaming debts are enforceable, they may not be collectible. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. furthermore, we expect that mgm macau will be able to enforce its gaming debts only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent mgm macau gaming customers and gaming promoters are from other jurisdictions, mgm macau may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and mgm macau may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. moreover, under applicable law, mgm macau remains obligated to pay taxes on uncollectible winnings from customers. 22 we may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long lived assets which could negatively affect our future profits. we review our goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets on an annual basis and during interim reporting periods in accordance with the authoritative guidance. significant negative trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates or lack of growth have resulted in write-downs and impairment charges in the past and, if one or more of such events occurs in the future, additional impairment charges may be required in future periods. if we are required to record additional impairment charges, this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations. leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events, such as terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility. we are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel by air. since most of our customers travel by air to our las vegas and macau properties, any terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war, or any actual or perceived threat to the security of travel by air could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. furthermore, although we have been able to purchase some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism continues to be unavailable. investing through partnerships or joint ventures including citycenter decreases our ability to manage risk. in addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement our business directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, as a co-venturer. joint venturers often have shared control over the operation of the joint venture assets. therefore, the operation of a joint venture is subject to inherent risk due to the shared nature of the enterprise and the need to reach agreements on material matters. in addition, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-venturer might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. consequently, actions by a co-venturer might subject hotels and resorts owned by the joint venture to additional risk. further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. alternatively, our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. additionally, should a joint venture partner become bankrupt, we could become liable for our partner's or co-venturer's share of joint venture liabilities. for instance, citycenter, which is 50% owned and managed by us, has a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect its business and its ability to meet its obligations. if citycenter is unable to meet its financial commitments and we and our partners are unable to support future funding requirements, as necessary, such event could have adverse financial consequences to us. in addition, the agreements governing citycenter's indebtedness subject citycenter and its subsidiaries to significant financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on its ability to incur additional indebtedness, place liens upon assets, make distributions to us, make certain investments, consummate certain asset sales, enter into transactions with affiliates (including us) and merge or consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets. the citycenter second amended and restated credit facility also includes certain financial covenants that require citycenter to maintain a minimum trailing annual ebitda (as defined in citycenter's second amended and restated credit facility) for each quarter, commencing on march 31, 2013. we cannot be sure that citycenter will be able to meet this test in the future or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet the test. in addition, in accordance with our joint venture agreement and the citycenter second amended and restated credit facility, we provided a completion guarantee which is secured by our interests in the assets of circus circus las vegas and certain adjacent undeveloped land. 23 any of our future construction or development projects will be subject to significant development and construction risks, which could have a material adverse impact on related project timetables, costs and our ability to complete the projects. any of our future construction or development projects will be subject to a number of risks, including: lack of sufficient, or delays in availability of, financing; changes to plans and specifications; engineering problems, including defective plans and specifications; shortages of, and price increases in, energy, materials and skilled and unskilled labor, and inflation in key supply markets; delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals; changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, residential, real estate development or construction projects; labor disputes or work stoppages; disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors; personal injuries to workers and other persons; environmental, health and safety issues, including site accidents and the spread of viruses; weather interferences or delays; fires, typhoons and other natural disasters; geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems; and other unanticipated circumstances or cost increases. the occurrence of any of these development and construction risks could increase the total costs, delay or prevent the construction, development or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of any future construction projects which we might undertake. we cannot guarantee that our construction costs or total project costs for future projects will not increase beyond amounts initially budgeted. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. in addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future. although we have "all risk" property insurance coverage for our operating properties, which covers damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war, or terrorism), each policy has certain exclusions. in addition, our property insurance coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the facilities if there was a total loss. our level of insurance coverage also may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. in addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, acts of war, loss of income due to cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage and pollution, may not be covered at all under our policies. therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured losses. in addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties that may be injured or harmed. while we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in any such event. 24 we renew our insurance policies (other than our builder's risk insurance) on an annual basis. the cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits, further increase our deductibles, or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. citycenter has decided to abate the potential for structural collapse of the harmon in the event of a code-level earthquake by demolishing the building, and we are exposed to risks prior to or in connection with the demolition process. after partial construction of the harmon, citycenter discovered that in certain elements of the building (known as link beams) the reinforcing steel had been installed incorrectly by citycenter's general contractor perini building company ("perini") and its subcontractors. after additional structural defects in other areas of the harmon were discovered, further construction at the harmon was indefinitely stopped. during the third quarter of 2010, citycenter determined that the harmon was unlikely to be completed using the existing partially completed structure as it now stands. a consulting engineer engaged by citycenter in 2011 to conduct a review requested by the clark county building division (the "building division") opined, among other things, that "[i]n a code-level earthquake, using either the permitted or current code specified loads, it is likely that critical structural members in the tower will fail and become incapable of supporting gravity loads, leading to a partial or complete collapse of the tower. there is missing or misplaced reinforcing steel in columns, beams, shear walls, and transfer walls throughout the structure of the tower below the twenty-first floor." in response to this opinion, the building division required citycenter to provide a plan of action to abate the potential for structural collapse of the harmon. after expert consultation, citycenter informed the building division that it has decided to abate the potential for structural collapse of the harmon by demolishing the building, subject to the receipt of court approval. a partial or complete collapse of the harmon prior to demolition, or the demolition process itself, could result in property damage or injury, which could have a material adverse effect on citycenter's and our business and/or cause reputational harm to citycenter and us. citycenter's second amended and restated credit facility provides that certain demolition expenses may be funded only by equity contributions from its members or certain specified extraordinary receipts (which include any proceeds from the perini litigation). any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business. the development of intellectual property is part of our overall business strategy, and we regard our intellectual property to be an important element of our success. while our business as a whole is not substantially dependent on any one trademark or combination of several of our trademarks or other intellectual property, we seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our business operations through the use of trademarks. we file applications for, and obtain trademarks in, the united states and in foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, parties may infringe our trademarks and our rights may be invalidated or unenforceable. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the united states. monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resource. we cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the united states and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. the unauthorized use or reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. tracinda owns a significant amount of our common stock and may have interests that differ from the interests of other holders of our stock. as of december 31, 2012, tracinda corporation beneficially owned approximately 19% of our outstanding common stock. as a result, tracinda may be able to exercise significant influence over us as a result of its significant ownership of our outstanding 25 common stock. for example, actions requiring stockholder approval that may be supported by other stockholders might be effectively blocked by tracinda corporation. we are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the united states. our operations outside of the united states are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business under non-united states laws, regulations and customs. in particular, the risks associated with the operation of mgm macau or any future operations in which we may engage in any other foreign territories, include: changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies in macau or other foreign jurisdictions; changes in non-united states government programs; possible failure to comply with anti-bribery laws such as the united states foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions; general economic conditions and policies in china, including restrictions on travel and currency movements; difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non-united states operations; different labor regulations; changes in environmental, health and safety laws; potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; political instability and actual or anticipated military and political conflicts; economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations; and uncertainties regarding judicial systems and procedures. these risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are also exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. if the united states dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other countries, our united states dollar reported income from sources where revenue is dominated in the currencies of other such countries will decrease. any violation of the foreign corrupt practices act or any other similar anti-corruption laws could have a negative impact on us. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from operations outside the united states, which exposes us to complex foreign and u.s. regulations inherent in doing cross-border business and in each of the countries in which we transact business. we are subject to compliance with the united states foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and other similar anti-corruption laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. while our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. violations of these laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties, and the sec and u.s. department of justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the fcpa. the occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. we face risks related to pending claims that have been, or future claims that may be, brought against us. claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries in various legal proceedings, and additional legal and tax claims arise from time to time. we may not be successful in the defense or prosecution of our current or future legal proceedings, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. please see the further discussion "legal proceedings." 26 a significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements. work stoppages and other labor problems could negatively affect our business and results of operations. approximately 30,000 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. the collective bargaining agreements covering most of our las vegas union employees expire in 2013. a prolonged dispute with the covered employees could have an adverse impact on our operations. in addition, wage and or benefit increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations, and to the extent that our non-union employees join unions, we would have greater exposure to risks associated with labor problems. our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results. we are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. accordingly, increases in energy costs may have a negative impact on our operating results. additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices that affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues. failure to maintain the integrity of internal customer information could result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. we collect information relating to our guests for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. the collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the united states and other jurisdictions around the world. privacy regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. in addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us) or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. we may seek to expand through investments in other businesses and properties or through alliances, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets, any of which may be unsuccessful. we intend to consider strategic and complementary investments in other businesses, properties or other assets. furthermore, we may pursue these opportunities in alliance with third parties. investments in businesses, properties or assets, as well as these alliances, are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: spending cash and incurring debt; assuming contingent liabilities; contributing properties or related assets to hospitality ventures that could result in recognition of losses; or creating additional expenses. we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that we will actually realize any anticipated benefits from such investments or alliances. if the jurisdictions in which we operate increase gaming taxes and fees, our results could be adversely affected. state and local authorities raise a significant amount of revenue through taxes and fees on gaming activities. from time to time, legislators and government officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. periods of economic downturn or uncertainty and budget deficits may intensify such efforts to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. if the jurisdictions in which we operate were to increase gaming taxes or fees, depending on the magnitude of the increase and any offsetting factors, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 27 conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of mgm china, the holding company for mgm grand paradise which owns and operates mgm macau. as a result of the initial public offering of shares of mgm china common stock, mgm china now has stockholders who are not affiliated with us, and we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of mgm china may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of mgm china. decisions that could have different implications for us and mgm china, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with mgm china, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest or an actual conflict of interest. risk factors quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we incorporate by reference the information appearing under "market risk" in item 7 of this form 10-k. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors you should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the sec could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below. risks relating to our substantial indebtedness our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations . as of december 31, 2013, we had approximately $13.5 billion principal amount of indebtedness outstanding, including $2.8 billion of borrowings outstanding under our senior secured credit facility. we had approximately $1.2 billion of available borrowing capacity under our senior secured credit facility as of december 31, 2013. any increase in the interest rates applicable to our existing or future borrowings would increase the cost of our indebtedness and reduce the cash flow available to fund our other liquidity needs. in addition, as of december 31, 2013, mgm grand paradise, s.a. ( mgm grand paradise ), the company that owns and operates mgm macau, had approximately $553 million of debt outstanding under its credit facility. we do not guarantee mgm grand paradise obligations under its credit agreement and, to the extent mgm macau were to cease to produce cash flow sufficient to service its indebtedness, our ability to make additional investments into that entity is limited by the negative covenants in our senior secured credit facility. in addition, our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could have important negative consequences, including: increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; or placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less-leveraged competitors. moreover, our businesses are capital intensive. for our owned and managed resorts to remain attractive and competitive, we must periodically invest significant capital to keep the properties well-maintained, modernized and refurbished. such investment requires an ongoing supply of cash and, to the extent that we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. similarly, future development projects and acquisitions could require significant capital commitments, the incurrence of additional debt, guarantees of third-party debt, or the incurrence of contingent liabilities, any or all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. current and future economic and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make planned expenditures . our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness and to fund planned or committed capital expenditures and investments in joint ventures depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, our ability to receive distributions from joint ventures and our ability to borrow under our senior secured credit facility to the extent of available borrowings. if adverse regional and national economic conditions persist, worsen, or fail to improve significantly, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, continue to receive distributions from joint ventures or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. 14 we have a significant amount of indebtedness maturing in 2015 and thereafter. our ability to timely refinance and replace such indebtedness will depend upon the foregoing as well as on continued and sustained improvements in financial markets. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on a timely basis, we might be forced to seek alternate forms of financing, dispose of certain assets or minimize capital expenditures and other investments. there is no assurance that any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms, on terms that would not be disadvantageous to us, or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements. the agreements governing our senior secured credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity, and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations. covenants governing our senior secured credit facility and certain of our debt securities restrict, among other things, our ability to: pay dividends or distributions, repurchase or issue equity, prepay certain debt or make certain investments; incur additional debt; incur liens on assets; sell assets or consolidate with another company or sell all or substantially all assets; enter into transactions with affiliates; allow certain subsidiaries to transfer assets; and enter into sale and lease-back transactions. our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. the breach of any such covenants or obligations not otherwise waived or cured could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. any default under our senior secured credit facility or the indentures governing our other debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt, and could force us to seek protection under the bankruptcy laws. in addition, mgm grand paradise and mgm china are co-borrowers under an amended and restated credit facility which contains covenants that restrict their ability to engage in certain transactions. in particular, the mgm china amended and restated credit facility requires mgm china to satisfy various financial covenants, including a maximum consolidated total leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio, and imposes certain operating and financial restrictions on mgm china and its subsidiaries (including mgm grand paradise), which include, among other things, limitations on its ability to pay dividends or distributions to us, incur additional debt, make investments or engage in other businesses, merge or consolidate with other companies, or transfer or sell assets. risks related to our business we face significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete, and failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. the hotel, resort and casino industries are highly competitive. we do not believe that our competition is limited to a particular geographic area, and hotel, resort and gaming operations in other states or countries could attract our customers. to the extent that new casinos enter our markets or hotel room capacity is expanded by others in major destination locations, competition will increase. major competitors, including new entrants, have either recently expanded their hotel room capacity or are currently expanding their capacity or constructing new resorts in las vegas and macau. also, the growth of gaming in areas outside las vegas, including california, has increased the competition faced by our 15 operations in las vegas and elsewhere. in particular, as large scale gaming operations on native american tribal lands has increased, particularly in california, competition has increased. in addition, competition could increase if changes in gaming restrictions in the united states and elsewhere result in the addition of new gaming establishments located closer to our customers than our casinos, such as has happened in california. for example, while our macau operations compete to some extent with casinos located elsewhere in or near asia (including singapore, australia, new zealand, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming, and unlicensed gaming operations), certain countries in the region have legalized casino gaming (including malaysia, vietnam, cambodia and the philippines) and others (such as japan, taiwan and thailand) may legalize casino gaming (or online gaming) in the future. furthermore, currently mgm grand paradise holds one of only six gaming concessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or if current concessionaires and subconcessionaries open additional facilities (for example, the facilities currently being developed in cotai, macau), we would face increased competition. furthermore, most jurisdictions in which casino gaming is currently permitted place numerical and/or geographical limitations on the issuance of new gaming licenses. although a number of jurisdictions in the united states and foreign countries are considering legalizing or expanding casino gaming, in some cases new gaming operations may be restricted to specific locations and we expect that there will be intense competition for any attractive new opportunities (which may include acquisitions of existing properties) that do arise. furthermore, certain jurisdictions, including nevada and new jersey, have also legalized forms of online gaming and the expansion of online gaming in these and other jurisdictions may further compete with our operations by reducing customer visitation and spend in our casino resorts. in addition to competition with other hotels, resorts and casinos, we compete with destination travel locations outside of the markets in which we operate. our failure to compete successfully in our various markets and to continue to attract customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. our ownership and operation of gaming facilities is subject to extensive regulation by the countries, states and provinces in which we operate. these laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. as such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators or, alternatively, cease operations in that jurisdiction. in addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates in any jurisdiction could have a negative effect on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. the regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to various gaming taxes, which are subject to possible increase at any time by various state and federal legislatures and officials. increases in gaming taxation could also adversely affect our results. for a summary of gaming and other regulations that affect our business, see regulation and licensing and exhibit 99.2 to this annual report on form 10-k. further, our directors, officers, key employees and joint venture partners must meet approval standards of certain state and foreign regulatory authorities. if state regulatory authorities were to find such a person or joint venture partner unsuitable, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person or the joint venture partner may be required to dispose of his, her or its interest in the joint venture. state regulatory agencies may conduct investigations into the conduct or associations of our directors, officers, key employees or joint venture partners to ensure compliance with applicable standards. for example, as a result of the new jersey division of gaming enforcement (the dge ) 16 investigation of our relationship with our joint venture partner in macau, we entered into a settlement agreement with the dge under which we were required to place in trust and sell our 50% ownership interest in borgata and related leased land in atlantic city. on august 8, 2011, the new jersey casino control commission approved an amendment to the settlement agreement, extending the time within which the sale of the trust property was required to occur by 18 months, so that until march 24, 2013 we had the right to direct the trustee to sell the trust property (the divestiture period ); but, if the sale was not concluded by that date, the trustee would have been authorized to sell such interests within the following 12 months (the terminal sale period ). on february 13, 2013, the settlement agreement was further amended to allow us to re-apply to the ccc for licensure in new jersey and to defer expiration of these periods pending the outcome of the licensure process. if the ccc denies our licensure request, then the divestiture period will immediately end, and the terminal sale period will immediately begin, which will result in our borgata interest being disposed of by the trustee pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement. certain public and private issuances of securities and other transactions also require the approval of certain regulatory authorities. in macau, current laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming concessions are, for the most part, fairly recent and there is little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and regulations. these laws and regulations are complex, and a court or administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue new or modified regulations, that differ from mgm china interpretation, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, mgm china activities in macau are subject to administrative review and approval by various government agencies. we cannot assure you that mgm china will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, and any such failure to do so may materially affect its long-term business strategy and operations. macau laws permit redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions; however, to date such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming issues. in addition to gaming regulations, we are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. these laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, smoking, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. for instance, we are subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances, including the clean air act, the clean water act, the resource conservation recovery act, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act and the oil pollution act of 1990. under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or wastes located on its property, regardless of whether or not the present owner or operator knows of, or is responsible for, the presence of such substances or wastes. such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. for example, illinois has enacted a ban on smoking in nearly all public places, including bars, restaurants, work places, schools and casinos and, in january 2013, casinos in macau, including mgm china, implemented a smoking ban in which a portion of casino floors are to be designated non-smoking. the likelihood or outcome of similar legislation in other jurisdictions and referendums in the future cannot be predicted, though any smoking ban would be expected to negatively impact our financial performance. in addition, we also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to recordkeeping and reporting obligations as required by various anti-money laundering laws and regulations. such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. any violations of the anti-money laundering laws or regulations by any of our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 17 our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside. our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending and corporate spending on conventions and business development. economic contraction, economic uncertainty or the perception by our customers of weak or weakening economic conditions may cause a decline in demand for hotels, casino resorts, trade shows and conventions, and for the type of luxury amenities we offer. in addition, changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as the increased cost of travel, an unstable job market, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, outbreaks of contagious diseases or fears of war and future acts of terrorism. aria, bellagio, mgm grand las vegas, mandalay bay and the mirage in particular may be affected by economic conditions in the far east, and all of our nevada resorts are affected by economic conditions in the united states, and california in particular. a recession, economic slowdown or any other significant economic condition affecting consumers or corporations generally is likely to cause a reduction in visitation to our resorts, which would adversely affect our operating results. for example, the recent recession and downturn in consumer and corporate spending have had a negative impact on our results of operations. in addition, the weak housing and real estate market both generally and in nevada particularly has negatively impacted citycenter ability to sell residential units. in addition, since we expect a significant number of customers to come to mgm macau from mainland china, general economic and market conditions in china could impact our financial prospects. any slowdown in economic growth or changes to china current restrictions on travel and currency movements could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland china to mgm macau as well as the amounts they are willing to spend in the casino. for example, from 2008 through 2010, china readjusted its visa policy toward macau and limited the number of visits that some mainland chinese citizens may make to macau in a given time period. in addition, effective october 2013, china banned zero-fare tour groups involving no or low up-front payments and compulsory shopping, which were popular among visitors to macau from mainland china. it is unclear whether these and other measures will continue to be in effect, become more restrictive, or be readopted in the future. these developments have had, and any future policy developments that may be implemented may have, the effect of reducing the number of visitors to macau from mainland china, which could adversely impact tourism and the gaming industry in macau. furthermore, our operations in macau may be impacted by competition for limited labor resources and the adequacy of transportation infrastructure in macau to accommodate the demand from future development. our success in macau will be impacted by our ability to retain and hire employees. we compete with a large number of casino resorts for a limited number of employees and we anticipate that such competition will grow in light of new developments in macau. while we seek employees from other countries to adequately staff our resort, certain macau government policies limit our ability to import labor in certain job classifications. in addition, because additional casino projects are under construction and are to be developed in the future, existing transportation infrastructure may need to be expanded to accommodate increased visitation to macau. if transportation facilities to and from macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting macau, the desirability of macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations at our development in cotai, macau, could be negatively impacted. we have agreed not to have any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in china, macau, hong kong and taiwan, other than through mgm china . in connection with the initial public offering of mgm china, the holding company that indirectly owns and operates mgm macau, we entered into a deed of non-compete undertakings with mgm china and ms. pansy ho pursuant to which we are restricted from having any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in the people republic of china, macau, hong kong and taiwan, other than through mgm china. while gaming is currently prohibited in china, hong kong and taiwan, if it is legalized in the future our ability to compete with our competitors in these locations could be limited until the earliest of (i) march 31, 2020, (ii) the date 18 mgm china ordinary shares cease to be listed on the stock exchange of hong kong limited or (iii) the date when our ownership of mgm china shares is less than 20% of the then issued share capital of mgm china. the macau government can terminate mgm grand paradise subconcession under certain circumstances without compensating mgm grand paradise, the macau government can exercise its redemption right with respect to the subconcession in 2017 or the macau government can refuse to grant mgm grand paradise an extension of the subconcession in 2020, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the subconcession in the event of fundamental non-compliance by mgm grand paradise with applicable macau laws or mgm grand paradise basic obligations under the subconcession contract. mgm grand paradise has the opportunity to remedy any such non-compliance with its fundamental obligations under the subconcession contract within a period to be stipulated by the macau government. upon such termination, all of mgm grand paradise casino area premises and gaming-related equipment would be transferred automatically to the macau government without compensation to mgm grand paradise, and we would cease to generate any revenues from these operations. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will perform all of its obligations under the subconcession contract in a way that satisfies the requirements of the macau government. furthermore, under the subconcession contract, mgm grand paradise is obligated to comply with any laws and regulations that the macau government might promulgate in the future. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will be able to comply with these laws and regulations or that these laws and regulations would not adversely affect our ability to construct or operate our macau businesses. if any disagreement arises between mgm grand paradise and the macau government regarding the interpretation of, or mgm grand paradise compliance with, a provision of the subconcession contract, mgm grand paradise will be relying on a consultation and negotiation process with the macau government. during any consultation or negotiation, mgm grand paradise will be obligated to comply with the terms of the subconcession contract as interpreted by the macau government. currently, there is no precedent concerning how the macau government will treat the termination of a concession or subconcession upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances mentioned above. the loss of the subconcession would require us to cease conducting gaming operations in macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the subconcession contract expires on march 31, 2020. unless the subconcession is extended, or legislation with regard to reversion of casino premises is amended, all of mgm grand paradise casino premises and gaming-related equipment will automatically be transferred to the macau government on that date without compensation to us, and we will cease to generate any revenues from such gaming operations. beginning on april 20, 2017, the macau government may redeem the subconcession contract by providing us at least one year prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, mgm grand paradise is entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of gaming and non-gaming revenue generated by mgm grand paradise, excluding the convention and exhibition facilities, during the taxable year prior to the redemption, before deducting interest, depreciation and amortization, multiplied by the number of remaining years before expiration of the subconcession. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will be able to renew or extend the subconcession contract on terms favorable to mgm grand paradise or at all. we also cannot assure you that if the subconcession is redeemed, the compensation paid to mgm grand paradise will be adequate to compensate for the loss of future revenues. we are required to build and open our development in cotai, macau by january 2018. if we are unable to meet this deadline, and the deadline for the development is not extended, we may lose the land concession, which would prohibit us from operating any facilities developed under such land 19 concession . the land concession for the approximately 17.8 acre site on cotai, macau was officially gazetted on january 9, 2013. if we are unable to build and open our proposed resort and casino by january 2018, and the deadline is not extended, the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the land concession contract. a loss of the land concession could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. mgm grand paradise is dependent upon gaming promoters for a significant portion of gaming revenues in macau. gaming promoters, who promote gaming and draw high-end customers to casinos, are responsible for a significant portion of mgm grand paradise gaming revenues in macau. with the rise in gaming in macau, the competition for relationships with gaming promoters has increased. while mgm grand paradise is undertaking initiatives to strengthen relationships with gaming promoters, there can be no assurance that it will be able to maintain, or grow, relationships with gaming promoters. if mgm grand paradise is unable to maintain or grow relationships with gaming promoters, or if gaming promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our high-end customers, mgm grand paradise ability to grow gaming revenues will be hampered. in addition, the quality of gaming promoters is important to mgm grand paradise and our reputation and ability to continue to operate in compliance with gaming licenses. while mgm grand paradise strives for excellence in associations with gaming promoters, we cannot assure you that the gaming promoters with whom mgm grand paradise is or becomes associated with will meet the high standards insisted upon. if a gaming promoter falls below mgm grand paradise standards, mgm grand paradise or we may suffer reputational harm or possibly sanctions from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. we also grant credit lines to our gaming promoters and any adverse change in the financial performance of those gaming promoters may impact the recoverability of these loans. extreme weather conditions or climate change may cause property damage or interrupt business, which could harm our business and results of operations. certain of our casino properties are located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes in the united states and severe typhoons in macau. such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. in addition, our operations could be adversely impacted by a drought or other cause of water shortage. a severe drought of extensive duration experienced in las vegas or in the other regions in which we operate could adversely affect our business and results of operations. although we maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such extreme weather conditions. furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. because our major gaming resorts are concentrated on the las vegas strip, we are subject to greater risks than a gaming company that is more geographically diversified. given that our major resorts are concentrated on the las vegas strip, our business may be significantly affected by risks common to the las vegas tourism industry. for example, the cost and availability of air services and the impact of any events that disrupt air travel to and from las vegas can adversely affect our business. we cannot control the number or frequency of flights to or from las vegas, but we rely on air traffic for a significant portion of our visitors. reductions in flights by major airlines as a result of higher fuel prices or lower demand can impact the number of visitors to our resorts. additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between las vegas and southern california, where a large number of our customers reside. capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may also affect the number of customers who visit our facilities. 20 we extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables. we conduct a portion of our gaming activities on a credit basis through the issuance of markers which are unsecured instruments. table games players typically are issued more markers than slot players, and high-end players typically are issued more markers than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. high-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. furthermore, the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these high-end customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cashflows. we issue markers to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit. in addition, mgm grand paradise extends credit to certain gaming promoters and those promoters can extend credit to their customers. uncollectible receivables from high-end customers and gaming promoters could have a significant impact on our results of operations. while gaming debts evidenced by markers and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the full faith and credit clause of the u.s. constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the united states of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from u.s. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. furthermore, we expect that mgm macau will be able to enforce its gaming debts only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent mgm macau gaming customers and gaming promoters are from other jurisdictions, mgm macau may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and mgm macau may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. moreover, under applicable law, mgm macau remains obligated to pay taxes on uncollectible winnings from customers. even where gaming debts are enforceable, they may not be collectible. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. we may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets which could negatively affect our future profits . we review our goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets on an annual basis and during interim reporting periods in accordance with the authoritative guidance. significant negative trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates or lack of growth have resulted in write-downs and impairment charges in the past and, if one or more of such events occurs in the future, additional impairment charges may be required in future periods. if we are required to record additional impairment charges, this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations. leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events, such as terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility. we are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel by air. since most of our customers travel by air to our las vegas and macau properties, any terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war, or any actual or perceived threat to the security of travel by air could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. furthermore, although we have been able to purchase some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism continues to be unavailable. investing through partnerships or joint ventures including citycenter decreases our ability to manage risk. in addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement 21 our business directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, as a co-venturer. joint venturers often have shared control over the operation of the joint venture assets. therefore, the operation of a joint venture is subject to inherent risk due to the shared nature of the enterprise and the need to reach agreements on material matters. in addition, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-venturer might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. consequently, actions by a co-venturer might subject hotels and resorts owned by the joint venture to additional risk. further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. alternatively, our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. additionally, should a joint venture partner become bankrupt, we could become liable for our partner or co-venturer share of joint venture liabilities. for instance, citycenter, which is 50% owned and managed by us, has a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect its business and its ability to meet its obligations. if citycenter is unable to meet its financial commitments and we and our partners are unable to support future funding requirements, as necessary, such event could have adverse financial consequences to us. in addition, the agreements governing citycenter indebtedness subject citycenter and its subsidiaries to significant financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on its ability to incur additional indebtedness, place liens upon assets, make distributions to us, make certain investments, consummate certain asset sales, enter into transactions with affiliates (including us) and merge or consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets. the citycenter third amended and restated credit facility also includes certain financial covenants that require citycenter to maintain a maximum total leverage ratio (as defined in citycenter third amended and restated credit facility) for each quarter, commencing on march 31, 2014. we cannot be sure that citycenter will be able to meet this test in the future or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet the test. in addition, in accordance with our joint venture agreement and the citycenter third amended and restated credit facility, we provided a cost overrun guarantee which is secured by our interests in the assets of circus circus las vegas and certain adjacent undeveloped land. any of our future construction or development projects will be subject to significant development and construction risks, which could have a material adverse impact on related project timetables, costs and our ability to complete the projects. any of our future construction or development projects will be subject to a number of risks, including: lack of sufficient, or delays in the availability of, financing; changes to plans and specifications; engineering problems, including defective plans and specifications; shortages of, and price increases in, energy, materials and skilled and unskilled labor, and inflation in key supply markets; delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals; changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, residential, real estate development or construction projects; labor disputes or work stoppages; disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors; personal injuries to workers and other persons; environmental, health and safety issues, including site accidents and the spread of viruses; weather interferences or delays; fires, typhoons and other natural disasters; 22 geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems; and other unanticipated circumstances or cost increases. the occurrence of any of these development and construction risks could increase the total costs, delay or prevent the construction, development or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of any future construction projects which we might undertake. for instance, we expect the total development costs of our cotai project to be approximately $2.9 billion, excluding development fees eliminated in consolidation, capitalized interest and land related costs. we expect total development costs of our maryland project to be approximately $1.0 billion and our massachusetts project to be approximately $690 million, each excluding capitalized interest and land related costs. while we believe that the overall budgets for these developments are reasonable, these development costs are estimates and the actual development costs may be higher than expected. we cannot guarantee that our construction costs or total project costs for future projects, including our developments in cotai and maryland (and in massachusetts if we are awarded the license), will not increase beyond amounts initially budgeted. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. in addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future. although we have all risk property insurance coverage for our operating properties, which covers damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war, or terrorism), each policy has certain exclusions. in addition, our property insurance coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the facilities if there was a total loss. our level of insurance coverage also may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. in addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, acts of war, loss of income due to cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage and pollution, may not be covered at all under our policies. therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured losses. in addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties that may be injured or harmed. while we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in any such event. we renew our insurance policies (other than our builder risk insurance) on an annual basis. the cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits, further increase our deductibles, or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. citycenter has decided to abate the potential for structural collapse of the harmon in the event of a code-level earthquake by demolishing the building, and we are exposed to risks prior to or in connection with the demolition process. after partial construction of the harmon, citycenter discovered that in certain elements of the building (known as link beams) the reinforcing steel had been installed incorrectly by citycenter general contractor perini building company ( perini ) and its subcontractors. after additional structural defects in other areas of the harmon were discovered, further construction at the harmon was indefinitely stopped. during the third quarter of 2010, citycenter determined that the harmon was unlikely to be completed using the existing partially completed structure as it now stands. in response to a request by the clark county building division (the building division ), citycenter engaged an engineer to conduct an analysis, based on all available information, as to the structural stability of the harmon under building-code-specified load combinations. on july 11, 2011, that engineer submitted the results of his analysis of the harmon tower and podium in its current as-built condition. the engineer opined, among other things, that [i]n a code-level earthquake, using either the permitted or current code specified loads, it is likely that critical structural members in the tower will fail and become incapable of supporting gravity loads, leading to a partial or complete collapse of the tower. there is missing or misplaced reinforcing steel in columns, beams, shear walls, and transfer walls throughout the structure of the tower below the twenty-first floor. based on this engineering opinion, the building division requested a plan of action from citycenter. citycenter 23 informed the building division that it decided to abate the potential for structural collapse of the harmon in the event of a code-level earthquake by demolishing the building, subject to the receipt of court approval. on august 23, 2013, the court granted citycenter motion, and citycenter has commenced planning for demolition of the building. on november 22, 2013 the court granted perini motion for reconsideration of the prior order granting citycenter permission to demolish the building, on the basis that the builder risk insurer had objected to destruction of the harmon until completion of the builder risk insurer investigation of citycenter policy claim regarding the harmon. a partial or complete collapse of the harmon prior to demolition, or the demolition process itself, could result in property damage or injury, which could have a material adverse effect on citycenter and our business and/or cause reputational harm to citycenter and us. on january 31, 2014, the court revoked its prior authorization of demolition of the harmon, without prejudice to renewal of the application, on the grounds that citycenter non-party builder risk insurer requested further testing in the building. any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business . the development of intellectual property is part of our overall business strategy, and we regard our intellectual property to be an important element of our success. while our business as a whole is not substantially dependent on any one trademark or combination of several of our trademarks or other intellectual property, we seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our business operations through the use of trademarks. we file applications for, and obtain trademarks in, the united states and in foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, parties may infringe our trademarks and our rights may be invalidated or unenforceable. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the united states. monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resource. we cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the united states and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. the unauthorized use or reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. tracinda owns a significant amount of our common stock and may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval. as of december 31, 2013, tracinda corporation beneficially owned approximately 19% of our outstanding common stock. as a result, tracinda may be able to exercise significant influence over any matter requiring stockholder approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions. we are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the united states. our operations outside of the united states are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business under non-united states laws, regulations and customs. in particular, the risks associated with the operation of mgm macau or any future operations in which we may engage in any other foreign territories, include: changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies in macau or other foreign jurisdictions; changes in non-united states government programs; possible failure to comply with anti-bribery laws such as the united states foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions; general economic conditions and policies in china, including restrictions on travel and currency movements; difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non-united states operations; different labor regulations; changes in environmental, health and safety laws; potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; 24 political instability and actual or anticipated military and political conflicts; economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations; and uncertainties regarding judicial systems and procedures. these risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are also exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. if the united states dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other countries, our united states dollar reported income from sources where revenue is dominated in the currencies of other such countries will decrease. any violation of the foreign corrupt practices act or any other similar anti-corruption laws could have a negative impact on us. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from operations outside the united states, which exposes us to complex foreign and u.s. regulations inherent in doing cross-border business and in each of the countries in which we transact business. we are subject to compliance with the united states foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) and other similar anti-corruption laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. while our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. violations of these laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties, and the sec and u.s. department of justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the fcpa. the occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. we face risks related to pending claims that have been, or future claims that may be, brought against us. claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries in various legal proceedings, and additional legal and tax claims arise from time to time. we may not be successful in the defense or prosecution of our current or future legal proceedings, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. please see the further discussion in legal proceedings. a significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements. work stoppages and other labor problems could negatively affect our business and results of operations. approximately 31,600 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. a prolonged dispute with the covered employees or any labor unrest, strikes or other business interruptions in connection with labor negotiations or others could have an adverse impact on our operations. also, wage and/or benefit increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations. in addition, to the extent that our non-union employees join unions, we would have greater exposure to risks associated with labor problems. our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results. we are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. accordingly, increases in energy costs may have a negative impact on our operating results. additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices that affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues. the failure to maintain the integrity of our computer systems and internal customer information could result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data . we collect information relating to our guests for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. the collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the united states and other jurisdictions around the world. privacy regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. 25 compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. in addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us) or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. we also rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, maintain information and manage our businesses. disruptions in the availability of our computer systems, through cyber-attacks or otherwise, could impact our ability to service our customers and adversely affect our sales and the results of operations. we may seek to expand through investments in other businesses and properties or through alliances, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets, any of which may be unsuccessful . we intend to consider strategic and complementary investments in other businesses, properties or other assets. furthermore, we may pursue these opportunities in alliance with third parties. investments in businesses, properties or assets, as well as these alliances, are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: spending cash and incurring debt; assuming contingent liabilities; contributing properties or related assets to hospitality ventures that could result in recognition of losses; or creating additional expenses. we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that we will actually realize any anticipated benefits from such investments or alliances. if the jurisdictions in which we operate increase gaming taxes and fees, our results could be adversely affected. state and local authorities raise a significant amount of revenue through taxes and fees on gaming activities. from time to time, legislators and government officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. periods of economic downturn or uncertainty and budget deficits may intensify such efforts to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. if the jurisdictions in which we operate were to increase gaming taxes or fees, depending on the magnitude of the increase and any offsetting factors, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. for instance, income generated from gaming operations of mgm grand paradise currently has the benefit of a corporate tax exemption in macau, which exempts us from paying the 12% complimentary tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games. we expect to continue to benefit from this tax exemption through the end of 2016 and believe that we will be granted additional five-year exemptions in the future, however, we cannot assure you that any extensions of the tax exemption will be granted. conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of mgm china, the holding company for mgm grand paradise which owns and operates mgm macau. as a result of the initial public offering of shares of mgm china common stock, mgm china now has stockholders who are not affiliated with us, and we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of mgm china may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of mgm china. decisions that could have different implications for us and mgm china, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with mgm china, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest or an actual conflict of interest. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we incorporate by reference the information appearing under market risk in item 7 of this form 10-k.risk factors you should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the sec could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below. risks relating to our substantial indebtedness our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations. as of december 31, 2014, we had approximately $14.2 billion principal amount of indebtedness outstanding, including $2.7 billion of borrowings outstanding under our senior secured credit facility. we had approximately $1.1 billion of available borrowing capacity under our senior secured credit facility as of december 31, 2014. any increase in the interest rates applicable to our existing or future borrowings would increase the cost of our indebtedness and reduce the cash flow available to fund our other liquidity needs. in addition, as of december 31, 2014, mgm grand paradise, s.a. ( mgm grand paradise ), the company that owns and operates mgm macau, had approximately $553 million of debt outstanding under its credit facility. we do not guarantee mgm grand paradise's obligations under its credit agreement and, to the extent mgm macau were to cease to produce cash flow sufficient to service its indebtedness, our ability to make additional investments into that entity is limited by the covenants in our existing senior secured credit facility. in addition, our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could have important negative consequences, including: increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; or placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less-leveraged competitors. moreover, our businesses are capital intensive. for our owned and managed resorts to remain attractive and competitive, we must periodically invest significant capital to keep the properties well-maintained, modernized and refurbished. such investment requires an ongoing supply of cash and, to the extent that we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. similarly, future development projects, including the las vegas arena project and our development projects in massachusetts and maryland, and acquisitions could require significant capital commitments, the incurrence of additional debt, guarantees of third-party debt, or the incurrence of contingent liabilities, any or all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. current and future economic and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make planned expenditures . our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness and to fund planned or committed capital expenditures and investments depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, our ability to receive distributions from our unconsolidated affiliates or subsidiaries, including mgm china, and our ability to borrow under our senior secured credit facility to the extent of available borrowings. if regional and national economic conditions deteriorate we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, continue to receive distributions from our unconsolidated affiliates or subsidiaries, including mgm china, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. we have a significant amount of indebtedness maturing in 2015, including $1.45 billion of our 4.25% convertible senior notes due 2015, and thereafter. fluctuations in our common stock impact the likelihood of the convertible senior notes being converted into equity. if our common stock price is below the conversion price of our convertible senior notes on the date of maturity, holders will not convert them into equity and we will be required to repay the principal amount of the convertible securities for cash. our ability to timely refinance and replace our indebtedness in the future will depend upon the economic and credit market conditions discussed above. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on a timely basis, we might be forced to seek alternate forms of financing, dispose of certain assets or minimize capital expenditures and other investments. there is no assurance that any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms, on terms that would not be disadvantageous to us, or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements. 12 the agreements governing our senior secured credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity, and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations . covenants governing our senior secured credit facility and certain of our debt securities restrict, among other things, our ability to: pay dividends or distributions, repurchase or issue equity, prepay certain debt or make certain investments; incur additional debt; incur liens on assets; sell assets or consolidate with another company or sell all or substantially all assets; enter into transactions with affiliates; allow certain subsidiaries to transfer assets; and enter into sale and lease-back transactions. our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. the breach of any such covenants or obligations not otherwise waived or cured could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. any default under our senior secured credit facility or the indentures governing our other debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt. in addition, mgm grand paradise and mgm china are co-borrowers under an amended and restated credit facility which contains covenants that restrict their ability to engage in certain transactions. in particular, the mgm china amended and restated credit facility requires mgm china to satisfy various financial covenants, including a maximum consolidated total leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio, and imposes certain operating and financial restrictions on mgm china and its subsidiaries (including mgm grand paradise), which include, among other things, limitations on its ability to pay dividends or distributions to us, incur additional debt, make investments or engage in other businesses, merge or consolidate with other companies, or transfer or sell assets. risks related to our business we face significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete, and failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow . the hotel, resort and casino industries are highly competitive. we do not believe that our competition is limited to a particular geographic area, and hotel, resort and gaming operations in other states or countries could attract our customers. to the extent that new casinos enter our markets or hotel room capacity is expanded by others in major destination locations, competition will increase. major competitors, including new entrants, have either recently expanded their hotel room capacity or are currently expanding their capacity or constructing new resorts in las vegas and macau. also, the growth of gaming in areas outside las vegas, including california, has increased the competition faced by our operations in las vegas and elsewhere. in addition, competition could increase if changes in gaming restrictions in the united states and elsewhere result in the addition of new gaming establishments located closer to our customers than our casinos, such as has happened in california. for example, while our macau operations compete to some extent with casinos located elsewhere in or near asia (including singapore, australia, new zealand, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming, and unlicensed gaming operations), certain countries in the region have legalized casino gaming (including malaysia, vietnam, cambodia, the philippines and russia) and others (such as japan, taiwan and thailand) may legalize casino gaming (or online gaming) in the future. furthermore, currently mgm grand paradise holds one of only six gaming concessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or if current concessionaires and subconcessionaires open additional facilities (for example, the facilities currently being developed in cotai, macau), we would face increased competition. furthermore, most jurisdictions in which casino gaming is currently permitted place numerical and/or geographical limitations on the issuance of new gaming licenses. although a number of jurisdictions in the united states and foreign countries are considering legalizing or expanding casino gaming, in some cases new gaming operations may be restricted to specific locations and we expect that there will be intense competition for any attractive new opportunities (which may include acquisitions of existing properties) that do arise. furthermore, certain jurisdictions, including nevada and new jersey, have also legalized forms of online gaming and the expansion of online gaming in these and other jurisdictions may further compete with our operations by reducing customer visitation and spend in our casino resorts. 13 in addition to competition with other hotels, resorts and casinos, we compete with destination travel locations outside of the markets in which we operate. our failure to compete successfully in our various markets and to continue to attract customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations . our ownership and operation of gaming facilities is subject to extensive regulation by the countries, states and provinces in which we operate. these laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. as such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators or, alternatively, cease operations in that jurisdiction. in addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates or subsidiaries in any jurisdiction could have a negative effect on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. the regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to various gaming taxes, which are subject to possible increase at any time by various state and federal legislatures and officials. increases in gaming taxation could also adversely affect our results. for a summary of gaming and other regulations that affect our business, see regulation and licensing and exhibit 99.2 to this annual report on form 10-k. further, our directors, officers, key employees and investors in our properties must meet approval standards of certain state and foreign regulatory authorities. if state regulatory authorities were to find such a person or investor unsuitable, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person or the investor may be required to dispose of his, her or its interest in the property. state regulatory agencies may conduct investigations into the conduct or associations of our directors, officers, key employees or investors to ensure compliance with applicable standards. certain public and private issuances of securities and other transactions also require the approval of certain regulatory authorities. in macau, current laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming concessions are, for the most part, fairly recent and there is little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and regulations. these laws and regulations are complex, and a court or administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue new or modified regulations, that differ from mgm china's interpretation, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, mgm china's activities in macau are subject to administrative review and approval by various government agencies. we cannot assure you that mgm china will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, and any such failure to do so may materially affect its long-term business strategy and operations. macau laws permit redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions; however, to date such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming issues. in addition to gaming regulations, we are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. these laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, smoking, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. for instance, we are subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances, including the clean air act, the clean water act, the resource conservation recovery act, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act and the oil pollution act of 1990. under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or wastes located on its property, regardless of whether or not the present owner or operator knows of, or is responsible for, the presence of such substances or wastes. such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. for example, illinois has enacted a ban on smoking in nearly all public places, including bars, restaurants, work places, schools and casinos. similarly, in october 2014, casinos in macau, including mgm china, implemented a smoking ban which prohibits smoking on all mass market gaming floors and, in 2015, the macau health bureau announced that they will promote the submission of a bill proposing a full smoking ban in casinos, including in vip rooms, in 2015. the likelihood or outcome of similar legislation in other jurisdictions and referendums in the future cannot be predicted, though any smoking ban would be expected to negatively impact our financial performance. in addition, we also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to recordkeeping and reporting obligations as required by various anti-money laundering laws and regulations. for instance, we are subject to regulation under the currency and foreign transactions reporting act of 1970, commonly known as the "bank secrecy act", which, among other things, requires us to report to the internal revenue service ("irs") any currency transactions in excess of $10,000 that occur within a 24-hour gaming day, including identification of the individual(s) involved in the currency transaction. we are also required to report certain suspicious activity, including any transactions aggregating to $5,000 or more, where we know, suspect or have reason to suspect such transactions, among other things, involve funds from illegal 14 activity or are intended to evade federal regulations or avoid reporting requirements or have no business or lawful purpose. in addition, under the bank secrecy act we are subject to various other rules and regulations involving reporting, recordkeeping and retention. our compliance with the bank secrecy act is subject to periodic audits by the irs, and we may be required to pay substantial penalties if we fail to comply with applicable regulations. any such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the futu re, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. any violations of the anti-money laundering laws, including the bank secrecy act, or regulations by any of our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside . our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending and corporate spending on conventions and business development. economic contraction, economic uncertainty or the perception by our customers of weak or weakening economic conditions may cause a decline in demand for hotels, casino resorts, trade shows and conventions, and for the type of luxury amenities we offer. in addition, changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as the increased cost of travel, an unstable job market, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, outbreaks of contagious diseases (such as the recent ebola epidemic) or fears of war and future acts of terrorism. consumer preferences also evolve over time due to a variety of factors, including as a result of demographic changes, which, for instance, has resulted in recent growth in consumer demand for non-gaming offerings. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the preferences of consumers and react to these trends and any failure to do so may negatively impact our results of operations. aria, bellagio and mgm grand las vegas in particular may be affected by economic conditions in the far east, and all of our nevada resorts are affected by economic conditions in the united states, and california in particular. a recession, economic slowdown or any other significant economic condition affecting consumers or corporations generally is likely to cause a reduction in visitation to our resorts, which would adversely affect our operating results. for example, the prior recession and downturn in consumer and corporate spending had a negative impact on our results of operations. in addition, since we expect a significant number of customers to come to mgm macau from mainland china, general economic and market conditions in china could impact our financial prospects. any slowdown in economic growth or changes to china's current restrictions on travel and currency movements, including market impacts resulting from china's recent anti-corruption campaign and related tightening of liquidity provided by non-bank lending entities and cross-border currency monitoring, could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland china to mgm macau and/or the amounts they are willing to spend in the casino. for example, from 2008 through 2010, china readjusted its visa policy toward macau and limited the number of visits that some mainland chinese citizens may make to macau in a given time period. in addition, effective october 2013, china banned zero fare tour groups involving no or low up-front payments and compulsory shopping, which were popular among visitors to macau from mainland china and in december 2014 the chinese government tightened the enforcement of visa transit rules for those seeking to enter macau at the gongbei border (including requirements to present an airplane ticket to a destination country, a visa issued by such destination country and a valid chinese passport). it is unclear whether these and other measures will continue to be in effect, become more restrictive, or be readopted in the future. these developments have had, and any future policy developments that may be implemented may have, the effect of reducing the number of visitors to macau from mainland china, which could adversely impact tourism and the gaming industry in macau. furthermore, our operations in macau may be impacted by competition for limited labor resources. our success in macau will be impacted by our ability to retain and hire employees. we compete with a large number of casino resorts for a limited number of employees and we anticipate that such competition will grow in light of new developments in macau. while we seek employees from other countries to adequately staff our resort, certain macau government policies limit our ability to import labor in certain job classifications. in addition, limitations on the number of gaming tables permitted by the macau government could impact our current expectation on the number of table games we will be able to utilize at our cotai project. such limitations or reduction in table game availability may impact mgm china's results of operations. finally, because additional casino projects are under construction and are to be developed in the future, existing transportation infrastructure may need to be expanded to accommodate increased visitation to macau. if transportation facilities to and from macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting macau, the desirability of macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations at our development in cotai, macau, could be negatively impacted. we have agreed not to have any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in china, macau, hong kong and taiwan, other than through mgm china . in connection with the initial public offering of mgm china, the holding company that indirectly owns and operates mgm macau, we entered into a deed of non-compete undertakings with mgm china and ms. pansy ho pursuant to which we are restricted from having any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in the people's republic of china, macau, hong kong and taiwan, other than through mgm china. while gaming is currently 15 prohibited in china, hong kong and taiwan, if it is legalized in the future our ability to compete in these locations could be limited until the earliest of (i) march 31, 2020, (ii) the date mgm china's ordinary shares cease to be listed on the stock exchange of hong kong limited or (iii) the date when our ownership of mgm china shares is less than 20% of the then issued share capital of mgm china. the macau government can terminate mgm grand paradise's subconcession under certain circumstances without compensating mgm grand paradise , the macau government can exercise its redemption right with respect to the subconcession in 2017 or the macau government can refuse to grant mgm grand paradise an extension of the subconcession in 2020 , any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business , financial condition , results of operations and cash flows . the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the subconcession in the event of fundamental non-compliance by mgm grand paradise with applicable macau laws or mgm grand paradise's basic obligations under the subconcession contract. mgm grand paradise has the opportunity to remedy any such non-compliance with its fundamental obligations under the subconcession contract within a period to be stipulated by the macau government. upon such termination, all of mgm grand paradise's casino area premises and gaming-related equipment would be transferred automatically to the macau government without compensation to mgm grand paradise, and we would cease to generate any revenues from these operations. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will perform all of its obligations under the subconcession contract in a way that satisfies the requirements of the macau government. furthermore, under the subconcession contract, mgm grand paradise is obligated to comply with any laws and regulations that the macau government might promulgate in the future. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will be able to comply with these laws and regulations or that these laws and regulations would not adversely affect our ability to construct or operate our macau businesses. if any disagreement arises between mgm grand paradise and the macau government regarding the interpretation of, or mgm grand paradise's compliance with, a provision of the subconcession contract, mgm grand paradise will be relying on a consultation and negotiation process with the macau government. during any consultation or negotiation, mgm grand paradise will be obligated to comply with the terms of the subconcession contract as interpreted by the macau government. currently, there is no precedent concerning how the macau government will treat the termination of a concession or subconcession upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances mentioned above. the loss of the subconcession would require us to cease conducting gaming operations in macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the subconcession contract expires on march 31, 2020. unless the subconcession is extended, or legislation with regard to reversion of casino premises is amended, all of mgm grand paradise's casino premises and gaming-related equipment will automatically be transferred to the macau government on that date without compensation to us, and we will cease to generate any revenues from such gaming operations. beginning on april 20, 2017, the macau government may redeem the subconcession contract by providing us at least one year's prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, mgm grand paradise is entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of gaming and non-gaming revenue generated by mgm grand paradise, excluding the convention and exhibition facilities, during the taxable year prior to the redemption, before deducting interest, depreciation and amortization, multiplied by the number of remaining years before expiration of the subconcession. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will be able to renew or extend the subconcession contract on terms favorable to mgm grand paradise or at all. we also cannot assure you that if the subconcession is redeemed, the compensation paid to mgm grand paradise will be adequate to compensate for the loss of future revenues. we are required to build and open our development in cotai, macau by january 2018. if we are unable to meet this deadline, and the deadline for the development is not extended, we may lose the land concession, which would prohibit us from operating any facilities developed under such land concession . the land concession for the approximately 18 acre site on cotai, macau was officially gazetted on january 9, 2013. if we are unable to build and open our proposed resort and casino by january 2018, and the deadline is not extended, the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the land concession contract. a loss of the land concession could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. mgm grand paradise is dependent upon gaming promoters for a significant portion of gaming revenues in macau . gaming promoters, who promote gaming and draw high-end customers to casinos, are responsible for a significant portion of mgm grand paradise's gaming revenues in macau. with the rise in gaming in macau and the recent reduction in the number of licensed gaming promoters in macau and in the number of vip rooms operated by licensed gaming promoters, the competition for relationships with gaming promoters has increased. while mgm grand paradise is undertaking initiatives to strengthen relationships with gaming promoters, there can be no assurance that it will be able to maintain, or grow, relationships with gaming promoters. in addition, continued reductions in the gaming promoter segment may result 16 in the closure of additional vip rooms in macau, including vip rooms at mgm macau. if mgm grand paradise is unable to maintain or grow relationships with gaming promoters, or if gaming promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our high-end customers, mgm grand paradise's ability to grow gaming revenues will be hampered. furthermore, if existing vip rooms at mgm macau are closed there can be no assurance that mgm grand paradise will be able to locate acceptable gaming promoters to run such vip rooms in the future in a timely manner, or at all. in addition, the quality of gaming promoters is important to mgm grand paradise's and our reputation and ability to continue to operate in compliance with gaming licenses. while mgm grand paradise strives for excellence in associations with gaming promoters, we cannot assure you that the gaming promoters with whom mgm grand paradise is or becomes associated with will meet the high standards insisted upon. if a gaming promoter falls below mgm grand paradise's standards, mgm grand paradise or we may suffer reputational harm or possibly sanctions from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. we also grant credit lines to certain gaming promoters and any adverse change in the financial performance of those gaming promoters may impact the recoverability of these loans. the future recognition of our foreign tax credit deferred tax asset is uncertain, and the amount of valuation allowance we may apply against such deferred tax asset may change materially in future periods based on changes to the underlying forecasts of future profitability of and distributions from mgm china and changes in our assumption concerning renewals of the five-year exemption from macau's 12% complementary tax on gaming profits . we currently have significant foreign tax credit deferred tax assets resulting from tax credit carryforwards that are available to reduce potential taxable foreign-sourced income in future periods. we evaluate our foreign tax credit deferred tax asset for recoverability and record a valuation allowance to the extent that we determine it is not more likely than not such asset will be recovered. this evaluation is based on available evidence, including assumptions about future profitability of and distributions from mgm china, as well as our assumption concerning renewals of the five-year exemption from macau's 12% complementary tax on gaming profits. as a result, significant judgment is required in assessing the possible need for a deferred tax asset valuation allowance and changes to our assumptions may have a material impact on the amount of the valuation allowance. for example, should we in a future period actually receive or be able to assume an additional five-year exemption, an additional valuation allowance would likely need to be provided on some portion or all of the foreign tax credit deferred tax asset, resulting in an increase in the provision for income taxes in such period and such increase may be material. in addition, a change to our forecasts of future profitability of and distributions from mgm china could also result in a material change in the valuation allowance with a corresponding impact on the provision for income taxes in such period. extreme weather conditions or climate change may cause property damage or interrupt business, which could harm our business and results of operations . certain of our casino properties are located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes in the united states and severe typhoons in macau. such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. in addition, our operations could be adversely impacted by a drought or other cause of water shortage. a severe drought of extensive duration experienced in las vegas or in the other regions in which we operate could adversely affect our business and results of operations. although we maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such extreme weather conditions. furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. because a majority of our major gaming resorts are concentrated on the las vegas strip, we are subject to greater risks than a gaming company that is more geographically diversified . given that a majority of our major resorts are concentrated on the las vegas strip, our business may be significantly affected by risks common to the las vegas tourism industry. for example, the cost and availability of air services and the impact of any events that disrupt air travel to and from las vegas can adversely affect our business. we cannot control the number or frequency of flights to or from las vegas, but we rely on air traffic for a significant portion of our visitors. reductions in flights by major airlines as a result of higher fuel prices or lower demand can impact the number of visitors to our resorts. additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between las vegas and southern california, where a large number of our customers reside. capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may also affect the number of customers who visit our facilities. we extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables . we conduct a portion of our gaming activities on a credit basis through the issuance of markers which are unsecured instruments. table 17 games players typically are issued more markers than slot players, and high-end players typically are issued more markers than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. high-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. furthermore, the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these high-end customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cashflows. we issue markers to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit. in addition, mgm grand paradise extends credit to certain gaming promoters and those promoters can extend credit to their customers. uncollectible receivables from high-end customers and gaming promoters could have a significant impact on our results of operations. while gaming debts evidenced by markers and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the full faith and credit clause of the u.s. constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the u.s. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from united states courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. furthermore, we expect that mgm macau will be able to enforce its gaming debts only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent mgm macau gaming customers and gaming promoters are from other jurisdictions, mgm macau may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and mgm macau may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. moreover, under applicable law, mgm macau remains obligated to pay taxes on uncollectible winnings from customers. even where gaming debts are enforceable, they may not be collectible. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. we may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets which could negatively affect our future profits . we review our goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets on an annual basis and during interim reporting periods in accordance with the authoritative guidance. significant negative trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates or lack of growth have resulted in write-downs and impairment charges in the past and, if one or more of such events occurs in the future, additional impairment charges may be required in future periods. if we are required to record additional impairment charges, this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations. leisure and business travel , especially travel by air , are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events , such as terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility . we are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel by air. since most of our customers travel by air to our las vegas and macau properties, any terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war, or any actual or perceived threat to the security of travel by air could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. furthermore, although we have been able to purchase some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism continues to be unavailable. co-investing in our properties, including our investment in citycenter, decreases our ability to manage risk . in addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement our business directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, as a co-investor. co-investors often have shared control over the operation of the property. therefore, the operation of such properties is subject to inherent risk due to the shared nature of the enterprise and the need to reach agreements on material matters. in addition, investments with other investors may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-investor might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. consequently, actions by a co-investor might subject hotels and resorts owned by such entities to additional risk. further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our co-investors. alternatively, our co-investors could take actions binding on the property without our consent. additionally, should a co-investor become bankrupt, we could become liable for their share of liabilities. for instance, citycenter, which is 50% owned and managed by us, has a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect its business and its ability to meet its obligations. if citycenter is unable to meet its financial commitments and we and our co-investor are unable to support future funding requirements, as necessary, such event could have adverse 18 financial consequences to us. in addition, the agreements governing citycenter's indebtedness subject citycenter and its subsidiaries to significant financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on its ability to incur additional indebtedness, place liens upon assets, make distributions to us, make certain investments, consummate certain asset sales, enter into transactions with affiliates (including us) and merge or consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets. the citycenter third amended and restated credit facility also includes certain financial covenants that require citycenter to maintain a maximum total leverage ratio (as defined in citycenter's third amended and restated credit facility) for each quarter. we cannot be sure that citycenter will be able to meet this test in the future or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet the test. in addition, in accordance with the citycenter third amended and restated credit facility, we provided a cost overrun guarantee which is secured by our interests in the assets of circus circus las vegas and certain adjacent land. any of our future construction or development projects will be subject to significant development and construction risks, which could have a material adverse impact on related project timetables, costs and our ability to complete the projects . any of our future construction or development projects will be subject to a number of risks, including: lack of sufficient, or delays in the availability of, financing; changes to plans and specifications; engineering problems, including defective plans and specifications; shortages of, and price increases in, energy, materials and skilled and unskilled labor, and inflation in key supply markets; delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals; changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, residential, real estate development or construction projects; labor disputes or work stoppages; disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors; personal injuries to workers and other persons; environmental, health and safety issues, including site accidents and the spread of viruses; weather interferences or delays; fires, typhoons and other natural disasters; geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems; and other unanticipated circumstances or cost increases. the occurrence of any of these development and construction risks could increase the total costs, delay or prevent the construction, development or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of any future construction projects which we might undertake. for instance, we currently expect the total development costs of our cotai project to be approximately $2.9 billion, excluding development fees eliminated in consolidation, capitalized interest and land related costs. we currently expect total development costs of our maryland project to be approximately $1.2 billion, total development costs of our massachusetts project to be approximately $760 million and total development costs of our las vegas arena project to be approximately $350 million, each excluding capitalized interest and land related costs. while we believe that the overall budgets for these developments are reasonable, these development costs are estimates and the actual development costs may be higher than expected. we cannot guarantee that our construction costs or total project costs for future projects, including our developments in cotai, maryland and massachusetts will not increase beyond amounts initially budgeted. in addition, the regulatory approvals associated with our development projects may require us to open future casino resorts by a certain specified time and to the extent we are unable to meet those deadlines, and any such deadlines are not extended, we may lose our regulatory approval to open a casino resort in a proposed jurisdiction which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. in addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future . although we have all risk property insurance coverage for our operating properties, which covers damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war, or terrorism), each policy has certain exclusions. in addition, our property insurance coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the facilities if there was a total loss. our level of insurance coverage also may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. in addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes; nuclear events; acts of war; loss of income due to cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism; loss of electrical power due to catastrophic events, rolling blackouts or otherwise; deterioration or corrosion; insect or animal damage; and pollution, may not be covered at all under our policies. therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured losses. 19 in addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties that may be injured or harmed. while we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in any such event. we renew our insurance policies (other than our builder's risk insurance) on an annual basis. the cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits, further increase our deductibles, or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. citycenter has decided to abate the potential for structural collapse of the harmon in the event of a code-level earthquake by demolishing the building, and we are exposed to risks in connection with the demolition process . after partial construction of the harmon, citycenter discovered that in certain elements of the building (known as link beams) the reinforcing steel had been installed incorrectly by citycenter's general contractor perini building company ( perini ) and its subcontractors. after additional structural defects in other areas of the harmon were discovered, further construction at the harmon was indefinitely stopped. during the third quarter of 2010, citycenter determined that the harmon was unlikely to be completed using the existing partially completed structure as it now stands. in response to a request by the clark county building division (the building division ), citycenter engaged an engineer to conduct an analysis, based on all available information, as to the structural stability of the harmon under building-code-specified load combinations. on july 11, 2011, that engineer submitted the results of his analysis of the harmon tower and podium in its current as built condition. the engineer opined, among other things, that [i]n a code-level earthquake, using either the permitted or current code specified loads, it is likely that critical structural members in the tower will fail and become incapable of supporting gravity loads, leading to a partial or complete collapse of the tower. there is missing or misplaced reinforcing steel in columns, beams, shear walls, and transfer walls throughout the structure of the tower below the twenty-first floor. based on this engineering opinion, the building division requested a plan of action from citycenter. citycenter informed the building division that it decided to abate the potential for structural collapse of the harmon in the event of a code-level earthquake by demolishing the building, subject to the receipt of court approval. on august 23, 2013, the court granted citycenter's motion, and citycenter commenced planning for demolition of the building. on january 31, 2014, the court revoked its prior authorization of demolition of the harmon, without prejudice to renewal of the application, on the grounds that citycenter's non-party builder's risk insurer requested further testing in the building. that request for further testing was withdrawn pursuant to the insurer's settleme nt of citycenter's harmon 2008 policy claim. on april 22, 2014 the court granted citycenter's renewed application for permission to demolish the harmon. the clark county building department issued the necessary permits required for demolition of this building. citycenter is in the process of a controlled deconstruction of the harmon structure in accordance with the standards set by its expert consultants and the clark county building department. a partial or complete collapse of the harmon prior to demolition, or the demolition process itself, could result in property damage or injury, which could have a material adverse effect on citycenter's and our business and/or cause reputational harm to citycenter and us. any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business . the development of intellectual property is part of our overall business strategy, and we regard our intellectual property to be an important element of our success. while our business as a whole is not substantially dependent on any one trademark or combination of several of our trademarks or other intellectual property, we seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our business operations through the use of trademarks. we file applications for, and obtain trademarks in, the united states and in foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, parties may infringe our trademarks and our rights may be invalidated or unenforceable. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the united states. monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resource. we cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the united states and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. the unauthorized use or reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. tracinda owns a significant amount of our common stock and may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval . as of december 31, 2014, tracinda corporation beneficially owned approximately 19% of our outstanding common stock. as a result, tracinda may be able to exercise significant influence over any matter requiring stockholder approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions. we are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the united states . our operations outside of the united states are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business under non-united states laws, regulations and customs. 20 in particular, the risks associated with the operation of mgm macau or any future operations in which we may engage in any other foreign territories, include: changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies in macau or other foreign jurisdictions; changes in non-united states government programs; possible failure to comply with anti-bribery laws such as the united states foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions; general economic conditions and policies in china, including restrictions on travel and currency movements; difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non-united states operations; different labor regulations; changes in environmental, health and safety laws; potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; political instability and actual or anticipated military and political conflicts; economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations; and uncertainties regarding judicial systems and procedures. these risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are also exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. if the united states dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other countries, our united states dollar reported income from sources where revenue is dominated in the currencies of other such countries will decrease. any violation of the foreign corrupt practices act or any other similar anti-corruption laws could have a negative impact on us . a significant portion of our revenue is derived from operations outside the united states, which exposes us to complex foreign and u.s. regulations inherent in doing cross-border business and in each of the countries in which we transact business. we are subject to compliance with the united states foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) and other similar anti-corruption laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. while our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. violations of these laws by us or our non-controlled ventures may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties against us, and the sec and u.s. department of justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the fcpa. the occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. we face risks related to pending claims that have been , or future claims that may be , brought against us . claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries in various legal proceedings, and additional legal and tax claims arise from time to time. we may not be successful in the defense or prosecution of our current or future legal proceedings, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. please see the further discussion in legal proceedings and note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. a significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements . work stoppages and other labor problems could negatively affect our business and results of operations. as of december 31, 2014, approximately 30,800 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. a prolonged dispute with the covered employees or any labor unrest, strikes or other business interruptions in connection with labor negotiations or others could have an adverse impact on our operations. also, wage and/or benefit increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations. in addition, to the extent that our non-union employees join unions, we would have greater exposure to risks associated with labor problems. our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results . we are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. accordingly, increases in energy costs may have a negative impact on our operating results. additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices that affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues. the failure to maintain the integrity of our computer systems and internal customer information could result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines , payment of damages , lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data . we collect information relating to our guests for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. the collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the united states and other 21 jurisdictions around the world. privacy regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. in addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us) or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. we also rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, maintain information and manage our businesses. disruptions in the availability of our computer systems, through cyber-attacks or otherwise, could impact our ability to service our customers and adversely affect our sales and the results of operations. for instance, there has been an increase in criminal cyber security attacks against companies where customer and company information has been compromised and company data has been destroyed. our information systems and records, including those we maintain with our third-party service providers, may be subject to cyber security breaches in the future. in addition, our third-party information system service providers face risks relating to cyber security similar to ours, and we do not directly control any of such parties' information security operations. a significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer or company data maintained by us or by a third-party service provider could have an adverse effect on our reputation, cause a material disruption to our operations and management team, and result in remediation expenses, regulatory penalties and litigation by customers and other parties whose information was subject to such attacks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. we may seek to expand through investments in other businesses and properties or through alliances, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets, any of which may be unsuccessful . we intend to consider strategic and complementary investments in other businesses, properties or other assets. furthermore, we may pursue these opportunities in alliance with third parties. investments in businesses, properties or assets, as well as these alliances, are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: spending cash and incurring debt; assuming contingent liabilities; contributing properties or related assets to hospitality ventures that could result in recognition of losses; or creating additional expenses. we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that we will actually realize any anticipated benefits from such investments or alliances. if the jurisdictions in which we operate increase gaming taxes and fees , our results could be adversely affected . state and local authorities raise a significant amount of revenue through taxes and fees on gaming activities. from time to time, legislators and government officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. periods of economic downturn or uncertainty and budget deficits may intensify such efforts to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. if the jurisdictions in which we operate were to increase gaming taxes or fees, depending on the magnitude of the increase and any offsetting factors, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. for instance, income generated from gaming operations of mgm grand paradise currently has the benefit of a corporate tax exemption in macau, which exempts us from paying the 12% complimentary tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games. this exemption is effective through the end of 2016 and we believe that we will be granted additional five-year exemptions in the future, however, we cannot assure you that any extensions of the tax exemption will be granted. conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of mgm china , the holding company for mgm grand paradise which owns and operates mgm macau . as a result of the initial public offering of shares of mgm china common stock, mgm china now has stockholders who are not affiliated with us, and we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of mgm china may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of mgm china. decisions that could have different implications for us and mgm china, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with mgm china, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest or an actual conflict of interest. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we incorporate by reference the information appearing under market risk in item 7 of this form 10-k.risk factors you should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the sec could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below. risks relating to our substantial indebtedness our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations. as of december 31, 2015, we had approximately $12.8 billion principal amount of indebtedness outstanding, including $2.7 billion of borrowings outstanding under our senior secured credit facility and $1.2 billion of available borrowing capacity. any increase in the interest rates applicable to our existing or future borrowings would increase the cost of our indebtedness and reduce the cash flow available to fund our other liquidity needs. in addition, as of december 31, 2015, mgm china had approximately $1.6 billion of debt outstanding under its credit facility. furthermore, in january 2016, our subsidiary mgm national harbor, llc entered into a $525 million senior secured credit facility consisting of a $425 million delayed draw term loan, of which $250 million was funded at closing, and a $100 million revolver. we do not guarantee mgm china's or mgm national harbor, llc's obligations under their respective credit agreements and, to the extent mgm macau or mgm national harbor, llc were to cease to produce cash flow sufficient to service their indebtedness, our ability to make additional investments into such entities is limited by the covenants in our existing senior secured credit facility. in addition, our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could have important negative consequences on us, including: increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; or placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less-leveraged competitors. moreover, our businesses are capital intensive. for our owned and managed resorts to remain attractive and competitive, we must periodically invest significant capital to keep the properties well-maintained, modernized and refurbished. such investment requires an ongoing supply of cash and, to the extent that we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. similarly, development projects, including the t-mobile arena project and our development projects in massachusetts and maryland, and acquisitions could require significant capital commitments, the incurrence of additional debt, guarantees of third-party debt, or the incurrence of contingent liabilities, any or all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. current and future economic and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make planned expenditures . our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness and to fund planned or committed capital expenditures and investments depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, receive distributions from our unconsolidated affiliates or subsidiaries, including mgm china, borrow under our senior secured credit facility or incur new indebtedness. if regional and national economic conditions deteriorate we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, continue to receive distributions from our unconsolidated affiliates or subsidiaries, including mgm china, that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs or that we will be able to access the capital markets in the future to borrow additional indebtedness on terms that are favorable to us. we have a significant amount of indebtedness maturing in 2016, and thereafter. our ability to timely refinance and replace our indebtedness in the future will depend upon the economic and credit market conditions discussed above. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on a timely basis, we might be forced to seek alternate forms of financing, dispose of certain assets or minimize capital expenditures and other investments. there is no assurance that any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms, on terms that would not be disadvantageous to us, or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements. 12 the agreements governing our senior secured credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity, and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations . covenants governing our senior secured credit facility and cert ain of our debt securities restrict, among other things, our ability to: pay dividends or distributions, repurchase or issue equity, prepay certain debt or make certain investments; incur additional debt; incur liens on assets; sell assets or consolidate with another company or sell all or substantially all of our assets; enter into transactions with affiliates; allow certain subsidiaries to transfer assets; and enter into sale and lease-back transactions. our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. the breach of any such covenants or obligations not otherwise waived or cured could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. any default under our senior secured credit facility or the indentures governing our other debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt. in addition, mgm grand paradise and mgm china are co-borrowers under an amended and restated credit facility and mgm national harbor, llc is the borrower under a senior secured credit facility, each of which contains covenants that restrict their ability to engage in certain transactions. in particular, the mgm china credit facility and the mgm national harbor, llc senior secured credit facility require mgm china and mgm national harbor, llc, as applicable, to satisfy various financial covenants, including a maximum consolidated total leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio. these agreements also impose certain operating and financial restrictions on mgm china and mgm national harbor, llc, and each of their subsidiaries (including, with respect to mgm china, mgm grand paradise), including, among other things, limitations on their ability to pay dividends or distributions to us, incur additional debt, make investments or engage in other businesses, merge or consolidate with other companies, or transfer or sell assets. risks related to our business there are risks associated with our proposed reit transaction. on october 29, 2015, we announced the formation of mgp and our intention that it elect to be taxed as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes following the proposed contribution of certain of our properties and related debt and equity financing transactions, including the ipo of mgp shares as reflected in a draft confidential registration statement filed with the sec. following the completion of the ipo and the filing of its election to be taxed as a reit, mgp would be a publicly traded, controlled reit primarily engaged in owning, acquiring and leasing large-scale casino resort properties, which include casino gaming, hotel, convention, dining, entertainment, retail and mixed-use facilities, and other resort amenities. the completion of the proposed reit transaction and ipo is subject to numerous conditions and the finalization of terms relating to the transactions, which are subject to a number of variables, including changes in market conditions, and may not occur on favorable terms or at all. we have not yet determined the number of shares that will be sold in the proposed ipo or the valuation of such shares. therefore, the amount of cash we expect to raise in connection with the proposed ipo and related transactions, and the degree to which we are able to reduce our indebtedness, is uncertain. in connection with the proposed reit transaction and ipo: our stock price could fluctuate significantly in response to developments relating to the proposed reit transaction and ipo or other action or market speculation regarding the proposed reit transaction and ipo; we will incur substantial increases in general and administrative expense associated with the need to retain and compensate third-party consultants and advisors (including legal counsel); although we have no plan or intention of disposing of our interest in mgp and the operating partnership following the proposed transactions, to the extent that future dispositions result in our owning less than a controlling interest in mgp, mgp's financial results may no longer be consolidated with our financial results, which may materially and adversely affect our consolidated results of operations; and we may not complete the proposed reit transaction and ipo, in which event we will have incurred significant expenses that we will be unable to recover, and for which we will not receive any benefit. if the 13 proposed ipo is completed, mgp would be a new publicly traded company. we cannot make any assurances that the proposed ipo, if completed, will increase our market value. in addition, the ipo and related transactions are subject to customa ry approvals and other risks, many of which are outside our control, including changes in legislation and tax rules. we face significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete, and failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow . the hotel, resort and casino industries are highly competitive. we do not believe that our competition is limited to a particular geographic area, and hotel, resort and gaming operations in other states or countries could attract our customers. to the extent that new casinos enter our markets or hotel room capacity is expanded by others in major destination locations, competition will increase. major competitors, including potential new entrants, may also expand their hotel room capacity, expand their range of amenities, improve their level of service, or construct new resorts in las vegas and macau, all of which could attract our customers. also, the growth of gaming in areas outside las vegas, including california, has increased the competition faced by our operations in las vegas and elsewhere. in addition, competition could increase if changes in gaming restrictions in the united states and elsewhere result in the addition of new gaming establishments located closer to our customers than our casinos, such as has happened in california. for example, while our macau operations compete to some extent with casinos located elsewhere in or near asia (including singapore, australia, new zealand, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming, and unlicensed gaming operations), certain countries in the region have legalized casino gaming (including malaysia, vietnam, cambodia, the philippines and russia) and others (such as japan, taiwan and thailand) may legalize casino gaming (or online gaming) in the future. furthermore, currently mgm grand paradise holds one of only six gaming concessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or if current concessionaires and subconcessionaires open additional facilities (for example, the facilities currently being developed in cotai, macau are expected to increase total hotel room inventory by 30% and significantly increase other gaming and non-gaming offerings in macau), we would face increased competition. most jurisdictions where casino gaming is currently permitted place numerical and/or geographical limitations on the issuance of new gaming licenses. although a number of jurisdictions in the united states and foreign countries are considering legalizing or expanding casino gaming, in some cases new gaming operations may be restricted to specific locations and we expect that there will be intense competition for any attractive new opportunities (which may include acquisitions of existing properties) that do arise. furthermore, certain jurisdictions, including nevada and new jersey, have also legalized forms of online gaming and other jurisdictions have legalized video gaming terminals. the expansion of online gaming and other types of gaming in these and other jurisdictions may further compete with our operations by reducing customer visitation and spend in our casino resorts. in addition to competition with other hotels, resorts and casinos, we compete with destination travel locations outside of the markets in which we operate. our failure to compete successfully in our various markets and to continue to attract customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations . our ownership and operation of gaming facilities is subject to extensive regulation by the countries, states and provinces in which we operate. these laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. as such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators or, alternatively, cease operations in that jurisdiction. in addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates or subsidiaries in any jurisdiction could have a negative effect on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. the regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to various gaming taxes, which are subject to possible increase at any time by various federal, state, local and foreign legislatures and officials. increases in gaming taxation could also adversely affect our results. for a summary of gaming and other regulations that affect our business, see regulation and licensing and exhibit 99.2 to this annual report on form 10-k. further, our directors, officers, key employees and investors in our properties must meet approval standards of certain state and foreign regulatory authorities. if state regulatory authorities were to find such a person or investor unsuitable, we 14 would be required to sever our relationship with that person or the investor may be required to dispose of his, her or its interest in the property. state regulatory agencies may conduct investigations into the conduct or associations of our directors, officers, key employees or investors to ensure compliance with applicable standards. certain public and private issuances of securities and other transactions also require the approval of certain regulatory authorities. in macau, current laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming concessions are, for the most part, fairly recent and there is little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and regulations. these laws and regulations are complex, and a court or administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue new or modified regulations, that differ from mgm china's interpretation, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, mgm china's activities in macau are subject to administrative review and approval by various government agencies. we cannot assure you that mgm china will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, and any such failure to do so may materially affect its long-term business strategy and operations. macau laws permit redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions; however, to date such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming issues. in addition to gaming regulations, we are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. these laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, smoking, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. for instance, we are subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances, including the clean air act, the clean water act, the resource conservation recovery act, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act and the oil pollution act of 1990. under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or wastes located on its property, regardless of whether or not the present owner or operator knows of, or is responsible for, the presence of such substances or wastes. such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. for example, illinois has enacted a ban on smoking in nearly all public places, including bars, restaurants, work places, schools and casinos. similarly, in october 2014, casinos in macau, including mgm china, implemented a smoking ban which prohibits smoking on all mass market gaming floors and, in 2015, the macau health bureau announced that they will promote the submission of a bill proposing a full smoking ban in casinos, including in vip rooms. the likelihood or outcome of similar legislation in other jurisdictions and referendums in the future cannot be predicted, though any smoking ban would be expected to negatively impact our financial performance. we also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to recordkeeping and reporting obligations as required by various anti-money laundering laws and regulations. for instance, we are subject to regulation under the currency and foreign transactions reporting act of 1970, commonly known as the "bank secrecy act", which, among other things, requires us to report to the internal revenue service ("irs") any currency transactions in excess of $10,000 that occur within a 24-hour gaming day, including identification of the individual(s) involved in the currency transaction. we are also required to report certain suspicious activity where we know, suspect or have reason to suspect transactions, among other things, involve funds from illegal activity or are intended to evade federal regulations or avoid reporting requirements or have no business or lawful purpose. in addition, under the bank secrecy act we are subject to various other rules and regulations involving reporting, recordkeeping and retention. our compliance with the bank secrecy act is subject to periodic examinations by the irs. any such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. any violations of the anti-money laundering laws, including the bank secrecy act, or regulations by any of our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside . our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending and corporate spending on conventions, trade shows and business development. economic contraction, economic uncertainty or the perception by our customers of weak or weakening economic conditions may cause a decline in demand for hotels, casino resorts, trade shows and conventions, and for the type of luxury amenities we offer. in addition, changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as the increased cost of travel, an unstable job market, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, outbreaks of contagious diseases or fears of war and future acts of terrorism. consumer preferences also evolve over time due to a variety of factors, including as a result of demographic changes, which, for instance, has resulted in recent growth in consumer demand for non-gaming offerings. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the preferences of consumers and react to these trends and any failure to do so may negatively impact our results of operations. aria, bellagio and mgm grand las vegas in particular may be affected by economic conditions in the far east, and all of our nevada resorts are affected by economic conditions in the united states, and california in particular. a recession, economic slowdown or any other significant 15 economic condition affecting consumers or corporations generally is likely to cause a reduction in visitation to our resorts, which would adversely affect our op erating results. for example, the prior recession and downturn in consumer and corporate spending had a negative impact on our results of operations. in addition, since we expect a significant number of customers to come to mgm macau from mainland china, general economic and market conditions in china could impact our financial prospects. any slowdown in economic growth or changes to china's current restrictions on travel and currency movements, including market impacts resulting from china's recent anti-corruption campaign and related tightening of liquidity provided by non-bank lending entities and cross-border currency monitoring (including increased restrictions on union pay withdrawals), could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland china to mgm macau and/or the amounts they are willing to spend in the casino. for example, from 2008 through 2010, china readjusted its visa policy toward macau and limited the number of visits that some mainland chinese citizens may make to macau in a given time period. in addition, effective october 2013, china banned zero fare tour groups involving no or low up-front payments and compulsory shopping, which were popular among visitors to macau from mainland china and in december 2014 the chinese government tightened the enforcement of visa transit rules for those seeking to enter macau at the gongbei border (including requirements to present an airplane ticket to a destination country, a visa issued by such destination country and a valid chinese passport). it is unclear whether these and other measures will continue to be in effect, become more restrictive, or be readopted in the future. these developments have had, and any future policy developments that may be implemented may have, the effect of reducing the number of visitors to macau from mainland china, which could adversely impact tourism and the gaming industry in macau. furthermore, our operations in macau may be impacted by competition for limited labor resources. our success in macau will be impacted by our ability to retain and hire employees. we compete with a large number of casino resorts for a limited number of employees and we anticipate that such competition will grow in light of new developments in macau. while we seek employees from other countries to adequately staff our resort, certain macau government policies limit our ability to import labor in certain job classifications (for instance, the macau government requires that we only hire macau residents as dealers in our casinos). in addition, limitations on the number of gaming tables permitted by the macau government could impact our current expectation on the number of table games we will be able to utilize at our cotai project. such limitations or reduction in table game availability may impact mgm china's results of operations. finally, because additional casino projects are under construction and are to be developed in the future, existing transportation infrastructure may need to be expanded to accommodate increased visitation to macau. if transportation facilities to and from macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting macau, the desirability of macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations at our development in cotai, macau, could be negatively impacted. we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our profit growth plan. we have undertaken an initiative for sustained growth and margin enhancement, focused on improving our business processes to optimize scale for greater efficiency and lower costs throughout our business. while we believe these initiatives will result in approximately $300 million of annual adjusted ebitda benefit by 2017, our optimization efforts may fail to achieve expected results. our profit growth plan is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that may change at any time, and, therefore, our actual adjusted ebitda benefit may differ materially from what we anticipate. we have agreed not to have any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in china, macau, hong kong and taiwan, other than through mgm china . in connection with the initial public offering of mgm china, the holding company that indirectly owns and operates mgm macau, we entered into a deed of non-compete undertakings with mgm china and ms. ho, pansy catilina chiu king ( ms. pansy ho ) pursuant to which we are restricted from having any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in the people's republic of china, macau, hong kong and taiwan, other than through mgm china. while gaming is currently prohibited in china, hong kong and taiwan, if it is legalized in the future our ability to compete in these locations could be limited until the earliest of (i) march 31, 2020, (ii) the date mgm china's ordinary shares cease to be listed on the stock exchange of hong kong limited or (iii) the date when our ownership of mgm china shares is less than 20% of the then issued share capital of mgm china. 16 the macau government can terminate mgm grand paradise's subconcession under certain circumstances without compensating mgm grand paradise , the macau government can exercise its redemption right with respect to the subconcession in 2017 or the macau government can refuse to grant mgm grand paradise an extension of the subcon cession in 2020 , any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business , financial condition , results of operations and cash flows . the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the subconcession in the event of fundamental non-c ompliance by mgm grand paradise with applicable macau laws or mgm grand paradise's basic obligations under the subconcession contract. mgm grand paradise has the opportunity to remedy any such non-compliance with its fundamental obligations under the subc oncession contract within a period to be stipulated by the macau government. upon such termination, all of mgm grand paradise's casino area premises and gaming-related equipment would be transferred automatically to the macau government without compensati on to mgm grand paradise, and we would cease to generate any revenues from these operations. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will perform all of its obligations under the subconcession contract in a way that satisfies the requirements of the macau government. furthermore, under the subconcession contract, mgm grand paradise is obligated to comply with any laws and regulations that the macau government might promulgate in the future. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will be able to comply with these laws and regulations or that these laws and regulations would not adversely affect our ability to construct or operate our macau businesses. if any disagreement arises between mgm grand paradise and the macau government regarding the interpretation of, or mgm grand paradise's compliance with, a provision of the subconcession contract, mgm grand paradise will be relying on a consultation and negotiation process with the macau government. during any consultation or negotiation, mgm grand paradise will be obligated to comply with the terms of the subconcession contract as interpreted by the macau government. currently, there is no precedent concerning how the macau government will treat the termination of a concession or subconcession upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances mentioned above. the loss of the subconcession would require us to cease conducting gaming operations in macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the subconcession contract expires on march 31, 2020. unless the subconcession is extended, or legislation with regard to reversion of casino premises is amended, all of mgm grand paradise's casino premises and gaming-related equipment will automatically be transferred to the macau government on that date without compensation to us, and we will cease to generate any revenues from such gaming operations. beginning on april 20, 2017, the macau government may redeem the subconcession contract by providing us at least one year's prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, mgm grand paradise is entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of gaming and non-gaming revenue generated by mgm grand paradise, excluding the convention and exhibition facilities, during the taxable year prior to the redemption, before deducting interest, depreciation and amortization, multiplied by the number of remaining years before expiration of the subconcession. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will be able to renew or extend the subconcession contract on terms favorable to mgm grand paradise or at all. we also cannot assure you that if the subconcession is redeemed, the compensation paid to mgm grand paradise will be adequate to compensate for the loss of future revenues. we are required to build and open our development in cotai, macau by january 2018. if we are unable to meet this deadline, and the deadline for the development is not extended, we may lose the land concession, which would prohibit us from operating any facilities developed under such land concession . the land concession for the approximately 18 acre site on cotai, macau was officially gazetted on january 9, 2013. if we are unable to build and open our proposed resort and casino by january 2018, and the deadline is not extended, the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the land concession contract. a loss of the land concession could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. mgm grand paradise is dependent upon gaming promoters for a significant portion of gaming revenues in macau . gaming promoters, who promote gaming and draw high-end customers to casinos, are responsible for a significant portion of mgm grand paradise's gaming revenues in macau. with the rise in gaming in macau and the recent reduction in the number of licensed gaming promoters in macau and in the number of vip rooms operated by licensed gaming promoters, the competition for relationships with gaming promoters has increased. while mgm grand paradise is undertaking initiatives to strengthen relationships with gaming promoters, there can be no assurance that it will be able to maintain, or grow, relationships with gaming promoters. in addition, continued reductions in, and new regulations governing, the gaming promoter segment may result in the closure of additional vip rooms in macau, including vip rooms at mgm macau. if mgm grand paradise is unable to maintain or grow relationships with gaming promoters, or if gaming promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our high-end customers (or if, as a result of recent market conditions in macau, gaming promoters encounter difficulties attracting patrons to come to macau), mgm grand paradise's ability to grow gaming revenues will be hampered. furthermore, if existing vip rooms at mgm macau are closed there can be no 17 assurance that mgm grand paradise will be able to locate acceptable gaming promoters to run such vip rooms in the future in a timely manner, or at all. in addition, the quality of gaming promoters is important to mgm grand paradise's and our reputation and ability to continue to operate in compliance with gaming licenses. while mgm grand paradise strives for excellence in associations with gaming promoters, we cannot assure you that the gaming promoters with whom mgm grand paradise is or becomes associated will meet the high standards insisted upon. if a gaming promoter falls below mgm grand paradise's standards, mgm grand paradise or we may suffer reputational harm or possibly sanctions from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. we also grant credit lines to certain gaming promoters and any adverse change in the financial performance of those gaming promoters may impact the recoverability of these loans. the future recognition of our foreign tax credit deferred tax asset is uncertain, and the amount of valuation allowance we may apply against such deferred tax asset may change materially in future periods based on changes to the underlying forecasts of future profitability of and distributions from mgm china, changes in our assumption concerning renewals of the five-year exemption from macau's 12% complementary tax on gaming profits and changes in assumptions concerning future u.s. operating profits . we currently have significant foreign tax credit deferred tax assets resulting from tax credit carryforwards that are available to reduce potential taxable foreign-sourced income in future periods. we evaluate our foreign tax credit deferred tax asset for recoverability and record a valuation allowance to the extent that we determine it is not more likely than not such asset will be recovered. this evaluation is based on available evidence, including assumptions about future profitability of and distributions from mgm china, as well as our assumption concerning renewals of the five-year exemption from macau's 12% complementary tax on gaming profits. as a result, significant judgment is required in assessing the possible need for a deferred tax asset valuation allowance and changes to our assumptions may have a material impact on the amount of the valuation allowance. for example, should we in a future period actually receive or be able to assume an additional five-year exemption, an additional valuation allowance would likely need to be provided on some portion or all of the foreign tax credit deferred tax asset, resulting in an increase in the provision for income taxes in such period and such increase may be material. in addition, a change to our forecasts of future profitability of and distributions from mgm china could also result in a material change in the valuation allowance with a corresponding impact on the provision for income taxes in such period. finally, while we do not currently rely on future u.s. source operating income in assessing future foreign tax credit realization due to our recent history of cumulative losses in the u.s., if the recent improvement in u.s. operating results continues, we could in a future period begin to rely on future u.s. source operating income for such purpose which could result in a reduction in the valuation allowance and a corresponding reduction in the provision for income taxes in such period. extreme weather conditions or climate change may cause property damage or interrupt business, which could harm our business and results of operations . certain of our casino properties are located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes in the united states and severe typhoons in macau. such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. in addition, our operations could be adversely impacted by a drought or other cause of water shortage. a severe drought of extensive duration experienced in las vegas or in the other regions in which we operate could adversely affect our business and results of operations. although we maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such extreme weather conditions. furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. because a majority of our major gaming resorts are concentrated on the las vegas strip, we are subject to greater risks than a gaming company that is more geographically diversified . given that a majority of our major resorts are concentrated on the las vegas strip, our business may be significantly affected by risks common to the las vegas tourism industry. for example, the cost and availability of air services and the impact of any events that disrupt air travel to and from las vegas can adversely affect our business. we cannot control the number or frequency of flights to or from las vegas, but we rely on air traffic for a significant portion of our visitors. reductions in flights by major airlines as a result of higher fuel prices or lower demand can impact the number of visitors to our resorts. additionally, there is one principal interstate highway 18 between las vegas and southern california, where a large number of our customers reside. capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may also affect the numb er of customers who visit our facilities. we extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables . we conduct a portion of our gaming activities on a credit basis through the issuance of markers which are unsecured instruments. table games players typically are issued more markers than slot players, and high-end players typically are issued more markers than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. high-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. furthermore, the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these high-end customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cashflows. we issue markers to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit. in addition, mgm grand paradise extends credit to certain gaming promoters and those promoters can extend credit to their customers. uncollectible receivables from high-end customers and gaming promoters could have a significant impact on our results of operations. while gaming debts evidenced by markers and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the full faith and credit clause of the u.s. constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the u.s. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from united states courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. furthermore, we expect that mgm macau will be able to enforce its gaming debts only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent mgm macau gaming customers and gaming promoters are from other jurisdictions, mgm macau may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and mgm macau may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. moreover, under applicable law, mgm macau remains obligated to pay taxes on uncollectible winnings from customers. even where gaming debts are enforceable, they may not be collectible. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. we may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets which could negatively affect our future profits . we review our goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets on an annual basis and during interim reporting periods in accordance with the authoritative guidance. significant negative trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates or lack of growth have resulted in write-downs and impairment charges in the past and, if one or more of such events occurs in the future, additional impairment charges or write-downs may be required in future periods. for instance, in 2015, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $1.5 billion to reduce the historical carrying value of goodwill related to the mgm china reporting unit. if we are required to record additional impairment charges or write-downs, this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations. leisure and business travel , especially travel by air , are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events , such as terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility . we are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel by air. since most of our customers travel by air to our las vegas and macau properties, any terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war, or any actual or perceived threat to the security of travel by air could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. furthermore, although we have been able to purchase some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism continues to be unavailable. co-investing in our properties, including our investment in citycenter, decreases our ability to manage risk . in addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement our business directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, as a co-investor. co-investors often have shared control over the operation of the property. therefore, the operation of such properties is subject to inherent risk due to the shared nature of the enterprise and the need to reach agreements on material matters. in addition, investments with other investors may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-investor might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. consequently, actions by a co-investor might subject hotels and resorts owned by such entities to additional risk. further, 19 we may be unable to take action with out the approval of our co-investors. alternatively, our co-investors could take actions binding on the property without our consent. additionally, should a co-investor become bankrupt, we could become liable for its share of liabilities. for instance, citycenter, which is 50% owned and managed by us, has a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect its business and its ability to meet its obligations. if citycenter is unable to meet its financial commitments and we and our co-investor are unable to support future funding requirements, as necessary, such event could have adverse financial consequences to us. in addition, the agreements governing citycenter's indebtedness subject citycenter and its subsidiaries to significant financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on its ability to incur additional indebtedness, place liens upon assets, make distributions to us, make certain investments, consummate certain asset sales, enter into transactions with affiliates (including us) and merge or consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets. the citycenter third amended and restated credit facility also includes certain financial covenants that require citycenter to maintain a maximum total leverage ratio (as defined in citycenter's third amended and restated credit facility) for each quarter. we cannot be sure that citycenter will be able to meet this test in the future or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet the test. any of our future construction, development or expansion projects will be subject to significant development and construction risks, which could have a material adverse impact on related project timetables, costs and our ability to complete the projects . any of our future construction, development or expansion projects will be subject to a number of risks, including: lack of sufficient, or delays in the availability of, financing; changes to plans and specifications; engineering problems, including defective plans and specifications; shortages of, and price increases in, energy, materials and skilled and unskilled labor, and inflation in key supply markets; delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals; changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, residential, real estate development or construction projects; labor disputes or work stoppages; disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors; personal injuries to workers and other persons; environmental, health and safety issues, including site accidents and the spread of viruses; weather interferences or delays; fires, typhoons and other natural disasters; geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems; and other unanticipated circumstances or cost increases. the occurrence of any of these development and construction risks could increase the total costs, delay or prevent the construction, development, expansion or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of any future projects which we might undertake. for instance, we currently expect the total development costs of our cotai project to be approximately $3.0 billion, excluding development fees eliminated in consolidation, capitalized interest and land-related costs. we currently expect total development costs of our maryland project to be approximately $1.3 billion, total development costs of our massachusetts project to be approximately $865 million and total development costs of our t-mobile arena project to be approximately $350 million, each excluding capitalized interest and land related costs. while we believe that the overall budgets for these developments are reasonable, these development costs are estimates and the actual development costs may be higher than expected. we cannot guarantee that our construction costs or total project costs for future projects, including our developments in cotai, maryland and massachusetts, will not increase beyond amounts initially budgeted or that the expected design and features of current or future projects will not change. in addition, the regulatory approvals associated with our development projects may require us to open future casino resorts by a certain specified time and to the extent we are unable to meet those deadlines, and any such deadlines are not extended, we may lose our regulatory approval to open a casino resort in a proposed jurisdiction or incur payment penalties in connection with any delays which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. in addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future . although we have all risk property insurance coverage for our operating properties, which covers damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war, or terrorism), each policy has certain exclusions. in addition, our property insurance 20 coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the f acilities if there was a total loss. our level of insurance coverage also may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. in addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes; nuclear events; acts of war; loss of income d ue to cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism; loss of electrical power due to catastrophic events, rolling blackouts or otherwise; deterioration or corrosion; insect or animal damage; and pollution, may not be covered at all under our policies. therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured losses. in addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties that may be injured or harmed. while we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in any such event. we renew our insurance policies (other than our builder's risk insurance) on an annual basis. the cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits, further increase our deductibles, or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business . the development of intellectual property is part of our overall business strategy, and we regard our intellectual property to be an important element of our success. while our business as a whole is not substantially dependent on any one trademark or combination of several of our trademarks or other intellectual property, we seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our business operations through the use of trademarks. we file applications for, and obtain trademarks in, the united states and in foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, parties may infringe our trademarks and our rights may be invalidated or unenforceable. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the united states. monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resource. we cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the united states and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. the unauthorized use or reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. tracinda owns a significant amount of our common stock and may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval . as of december 31, 2015, tracinda corporation beneficially owned approximately 16% of our outstanding common stock and as a result, tracinda may be able to exercise significant influence over any matter requiring stockholder approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions. upon mr. kerkorian's passing, tracinda's position in our common stock became subject to the terms of mr. kerkorian's last will and testament, which provides for an orderly disposition of tracinda's position in our common stock. as a result, while we expect that tracinda's ownership of our common stock will decline in the future, tracinda has not indicated when, if or how it intends to sell its position in our common stock. we are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the united states . our operations outside of the united states are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business under non-united states laws, regulations and customs. in particular, the risks associated with the operation of mgm macau or any future operations in which we may engage in any other foreign territories, include: changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies in macau or other foreign jurisdictions; changes in non-united states government programs; possible failure by our employees or agents to comply with anti-bribery laws such as the united states foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions; general economic conditions and policies in china, including restrictions on travel and currency movements; difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non-united states operations; different labor regulations; changes in environmental, health and safety laws; outbreaks of diseases or epidemics; potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; political instability and actual or anticipated military and political conflicts; economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations; and uncertainties regarding judicial systems and procedures. these risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 21 we are also exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. if the united states dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other countries, our united states dollar reported income from sources where revenue is dominated in the currencies of other such countries will decrease. any violation of the foreign corrupt practices act or any other similar anti-corruption laws could have a negative impact on us . a significant portion of our revenue is derived from operations outside the united states, which exposes us to complex foreign and u.s. regulations inherent in doing cross-border business and in each of the countries in which we transact business. we are subject to compliance with the united states foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) and other similar anti-corruption laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. while our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. violations of these laws by us or our non-controlled ventures may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties against us, and the sec and u.s. department of justice continue to vigorously pursue enforcement of the fcpa. the occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. we face risks related to pending claims that have been , or future claims that may be , brought against us . claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries in various legal proceedings, and additional legal and tax claims arise from time to time. we may not be successful in the defense or prosecution of our current or future legal proceedings, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. please see the further discussion in legal proceedings and note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. a significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements . work stoppages and other labor problems could negatively affect our business and results of operations. as of december 31, 2015, approximately 29,900 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. a prolonged dispute with the covered employees or any labor unrest, strikes or other business interruptions in connection with labor negotiations or others could have an adverse impact on our operations. further, adverse publicity in the marketplace related to union messaging could further harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. also, wage and/or benefit increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations. in addition, to the extent that our non-union employees join unions, we would have greater exposure to risks associated with labor problems. our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results . we are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. accordingly, increases in energy costs may have a negative impact on our operating results. additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices that affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues. the failure to maintain the integrity of our computer systems and internal customer information could result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines , payment of damages , lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data . we collect and store information relating to our employees and guests for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. the collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the united states and other jurisdictions around the world. privacy regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. in addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us), including accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, unapproved dissemination or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. we rely on proprietary and commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of customer and employee information, such as payment card and other confidential or proprietary information. our data security measures are reviewed and evaluated regularly; however, they might not protect us against increasingly sophisticated and aggressive threats. in addition, while we maintain cyber risk insurance to assist in the cost of recovery from a significant cyber event, such coverage may not be sufficient . we also rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, maintain information and manage our businesses. disruptions in the availability of our computer systems, through cyber-attacks or otherwise, could impact our ability to 22 service our customers and adversely affect our sales and the results of operations. for instance, there has been an increase in criminal cyber security attacks against companies where customer and company information has been compromised and company data has been destroyed. our information systems and records, inc luding those we maintain with our third-party service providers, may be subject to cyber security breaches in the future. in addition, our third-party information system service providers face risks relating to cyber security similar to ours, and we do no t directly control any of such parties' information security operations. a significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer or company data maintained by us or by a third-party service provider could have an adverse effect on our reputation, cause a material disruption to our operations and management team, and result in remediation expenses, regulatory penalties and litigation by customers and other parties whose information was subject to such attacks, all of which could have a material adverse eff ect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. we may seek to expand through investments in other businesses and properties or through alliances or acquisitions, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets, any of which may be unsuccessful . we intend to consider strategic and complementary acquisitions and investments in other businesses, properties or other assets. furthermore, we may pursue any of these opportunities in alliance with third parties. acquisitions and investments in businesses, properties or assets, as well as these alliances, are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: spending cash and incurring debt; assuming contingent liabilities; unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; unanticipated incompatibility of purchasing, logistics, marketing and administration methods; retaining key employees; and consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that we will actually realize any anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, investments or alliances. if the jurisdictions in which we operate increase gaming taxes and fees , our results could be adversely affected . state and local authorities raise a significant amount of revenue through taxes and fees on gaming activities. from time to time, legislators and government officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. periods of economic downturn or uncertainty and budget deficits may intensify such efforts to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. if the jurisdictions in which we operate were to increase gaming taxes or fees, depending on the magnitude of the increase and any offsetting factors, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. for instance, income generated from gaming operations of mgm grand paradise currently has the benefit of a corporate tax exemption in macau, which exempts us from paying the 12% complementary tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games. this exemption is effective through the end of 2016 and while we believe that we will be granted additional five-year exemptions in the future we cannot assure you that any extensions of the tax exemption will be granted. conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of mgm china , the holding company for mgm grand paradise which owns and operates mgm macau . as a result of the initial public offering of shares of mgm china common stock, mgm china now has stockholders who are not affiliated with us, and we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of mgm china may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of mgm china. decisions that could have different implications for us and mgm china, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with mgm china, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest or an actual conflict of interest. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we incorporate by reference the information appearing under market risk in item 7 of this form 10-k.risk factors you should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the sec could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below. risks relating to our substantial indebtedness our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments, including the fixed component of our rent payments to mgp, could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations . our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments, including the fixed component of our rent payments to mgp, could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations. as of december 31, 2016, we had approximately $13.1 billion principal amount of indebtedness outstanding, including $250 million of borrowings outstanding and $1.2 billion of available borrowing capacity under our senior secured credit facility, and $1.9 billion, $2.1 billion and $450 million of debt outstanding under the mgm china, operating partnership, and mgm national harbor credit facilities, respectively. in addition, the operating partnership has $1.55 billion of senior notes outstanding. any increase in the interest rates applicable to our existing or future borrowings would increase the cost of our indebtedness and reduce the cash flow available to fund our other liquidity needs. we do not guarantee mgm china's, mgm national harbor's or the operating partnership's obligations under their respective debt agreements and, to the extent mgm macau, mgm national harbor or the operating partnership were to cease to produce cash flow sufficient to service their indebtedness, our ability to make additional investments into such entities is limited by the covenants in our existing senior secured credit facility. in addition, our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could have important negative consequences on us, including: increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; or placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less-leveraged competitors. moreover, our businesses are capital intensive. for our owned, leased and managed resorts to remain attractive and competitive, we must periodically invest significant capital to keep the properties well-maintained, modernized and refurbished (and, under the master lease we are required to spend an aggregate amount of at least 1% of actual adjusted net revenues from the properties included under the master lease on capital expenditures at those properties). such investment requires an ongoing supply of cash and, to the extent that we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. similarly, development projects, including our development project in massachusetts, and acquisitions could require significant capital commitments, the incurrence of additional debt, guarantees of third-party debt, or the incurrence of contingent liabilities, any or all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. current and future economic, capital and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make planned expenditures . our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness and to fund planned or committed capital expenditures and investments depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, receive distributions from our unconsolidated affiliates or subsidiaries, including mgm china and the operating partnership, borrow under our senior secured credit facility or incur new indebtedness. if regional and national economic conditions deteriorate we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, continue to receive distributions from our unconsolidated affiliates or subsidiaries, including mgm china and the operating partnership, that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs or that we will be able to access the capital markets in the future to borrow additional indebtedness on terms that are favorable to us. we have a significant amount of indebtedness maturing in 2018, and thereafter. our ability to timely refinance and replace our indebtedness in the future will depend upon the economic and credit market conditions discussed above. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on a timely basis, we might be forced to seek alternate forms of financing, dispose of certain assets or minimize capital expenditures and other investments. there is no assurance that any of these alternatives 12 would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms, on terms that would not be disadvantageous to us, or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements. the agreements governing our senior secured credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity, and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations . covenants governing our senior secured credit facility and certain of our debt securities restrict, among other things, our ability to: pay dividends or distributions, repurchase or issue equity, prepay certain debt or make certain investments; incur additional debt; incur liens on assets; sell assets or consolidate with another company or sell all or substantially all of our assets; enter into transactions with affiliates; allow certain subsidiaries to transfer assets; and enter into sale and lease-back transactions. our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. the breach of any such covenants or obligations not otherwise waived or cured could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. in addition, our senior secured credit facility requires us to satisfy certain financial covenants, including a maximum total net leverage ratio, a maximum first lien net leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. any default under our senior secured credit facility or the indentures governing our other debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt. in addition, mgm grand paradise and mgm china are co-borrowers under an amended and restated credit facility and the operating partnership and mgm national harbor, llc are each borrowers under their respective senior secured credit facilities, all of which contain covenants that restrict the respective borrower's ability to engage in certain transactions. in particular, these credit agreements require mgm china, the operating partnership and mgm national harbor, llc to satisfy certain financial covenants and impose certain operating and financial restrictions on mgm china, the operating partnership and mgm national harbor, llc, and each of their subsidiaries (including, with respect to mgm china, mgm grand paradise), respectively. these restrictions include, among other things, limitations on their ability to pay dividends or distributions to us, incur additional debt, make investments or engage in other businesses, merge or consolidate with other companies, or transfer or sell assets. we are required to pay a significant portion of our cash flows as fixed and percentage rent under the master lease, which could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations and growth, service our indebtedness and limit our ability to react to competitive and economic changes . we are required to pay annual rent of $650 million, which increased from $550 million as a result of the borgata transaction on august 1, 2016 (with annual escalators of 2% in the second through sixth years of the master lease and the possibility for additional 2% increases thereafter, as well as potential increases in percentage rent every five years), to mgp pursuant to and subject to the terms and conditions of the master lease. as a result, our ability to fund our own operations, raise capital, make acquisitions, make investments, service our debt and otherwise respond to competitive and economic changes may be adversely affected. for example, our obligations under the master lease may: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and to obtain additional indebtedness; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to making rent payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; restrict our ability to make acquisitions, divestitures and engage in other significant transactions; and cause us to lose our rights with respect to all of the properties leased under the master lease if we fail to pay rent or other amounts or otherwise default on the master lease, given that all of the properties we lease from mgp under the master lease are effectively cross-collateralized as a result of the master lease being a single unitary lease. 13 any of the above factors could have a material adverse e ffect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks related to our business we face significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete, and failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow . the hotel, resort and casino industries are highly competitive. we do not believe that our competition is limited to a particular geographic area, and hotel, resort and gaming operations in other states or countries could attract our customers. to the extent that new casinos enter our markets or hotel room capacity is expanded by others in major destination locations, competition will increase. major competitors, including potential new entrants, may also expand their hotel room capacity, expand their range of amenities, improve their level of service, or construct new resorts in las vegas, macau or in the domestic regional markets in which we operate, all of which could attract our customers. also, the growth of gaming in areas outside las vegas, including california, has increased the competition faced by our operations in las vegas and elsewhere. in addition, competition could increase if changes in gaming restrictions in the united states and elsewhere result in the addition of new gaming establishments located closer to our customers than our casinos, such as has happened in california. for example, while our macau operations compete to some extent with casinos located elsewhere in or near asia (including singapore, korea, australia, new zealand, malaysia, vietnam, cambodia, the philippines, russia, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming, and unlicensed gaming operations), certain countries in the region have legalized casino gaming (including japan) and others (such as taiwan and thailand) may legalize casino gaming (or online gaming) in the future. furthermore, currently mgm grand paradise holds one of only six gaming concessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or if current concessionaires and subconcessionaires open additional facilities (for example, the facilities currently being developed in cotai, macau are expected to increase total hotel room inventory by 10% through 2018 and significantly increase other gaming and non-gaming offerings in macau), we would face increased competition. most jurisdictions where casino gaming is currently permitted place numerical and/or geographical limitations on the issuance of new gaming licenses. although a number of jurisdictions in the united states and foreign countries are considering legalizing or expanding casino gaming, in some cases new gaming operations may be restricted to specific locations and we expect that there will be intense competition for any attractive new opportunities (which may include acquisitions of existing properties) that do arise. furthermore, certain jurisdictions, including nevada and new jersey, have also legalized forms of online gaming and other jurisdictions, including illinois, have legalized video gaming terminals. the expansion of online gaming and other types of gaming in these and other jurisdictions may further compete with our operations by reducing customer visitation and spend in our casino resorts. in addition to competition with other hotels, resorts and casinos, we compete with destination travel locations outside of the markets in which we operate. our failure to compete successfully in our various markets and to continue to attract customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations . our ownership and operation of gaming facilities is subject to extensive regulation by the countries, states and provinces in which we operate. these laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. as such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators or, alternatively, cease operations in that jurisdiction. in addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates or subsidiaries in any jurisdiction could have a negative effect on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. the regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to various gaming taxes, which are subject to possible increase at any time by various federal, state, local and foreign legislatures and officials. increases in gaming taxation could also adversely affect our results. for a summary of gaming and other regulations that affect our business, see regulation and licensing and exhibit 99.2 to this annual report on form 10-k. further, our directors, officers, key employees and investors in our properties must meet approval standards of certain state and foreign regulatory authorities. if state regulatory authorities were to find such a person or investor unsuitable, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person or the investor may be required to dispose of his, her or its interest in 14 the property. state regulatory a gencies may conduct investigations into the conduct or associations of our directors, officers, key employees or investors to ensure compliance with applicable standards. certain public and private issuances of securities and other transactions also requir e the approval of certain regulatory authorities. in macau, current laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming concessions are, for the most part, fairly recent and there is little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and regulations. these laws and regulations are complex, and a court or administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue new or modified regulations, that differ from mgm china's interpretation, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, mgm china's activities in macau are subject to administrative review and approval by various government agencies. we cannot assure you that mgm china will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, and any such failure to do so may materially affect its long-term business strategy and operations. macau laws permit redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions; however, to date such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming issues. in addition to gaming regulations, we are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. these laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, smoking, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. for instance, we are subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances, including the clean air act, the clean water act, the resource conservation recovery act, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act and the oil pollution act of 1990. under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or wastes located on its property, regardless of whether or not the present owner or operator knows of, or is responsible for, the presence of such substances or wastes. such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. for example, illinois has enacted a ban on smoking in nearly all public places, including bars, restaurants, work places, schools and casinos. similarly, in october 2014, casinos in macau, including mgm china, implemented a smoking ban which prohibits smoking on all mass market gaming floors and, in 2015, the macau health bureau announced that they will promote the submission of a bill proposing a full smoking ban in casinos, including in vip rooms. the likelihood or outcome of similar legislation in other jurisdictions and referendums in the future cannot be predicted, though any smoking ban would be expected to negatively impact our financial performance. we also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to recordkeeping and reporting obligations as required by various anti-money laundering laws and regulations. for instance, we are subject to regulation under the currency and foreign transactions reporting act of 1970, commonly known as the bank secrecy act" , which, among other things, requires us to report to the internal revenue service ( irs ) any currency transactions in excess of $10,000 that occur within a 24-hour gaming day, including identification of the individual(s) involved in the currency transaction. we are also required to report certain suspicious activity where we know, suspect or have reason to suspect transactions, among other things, involve funds from illegal activity or are intended to evade federal regulations or avoid reporting requirements or have no business or lawful purpose. in addition, under the bank secrecy act we are subject to various other rules and regulations involving reporting, recordkeeping and retention. our compliance with the bank secrecy act is subject to periodic examinations by the irs. any such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. any violations of the anti-money laundering laws, including the bank secrecy act, or regulations by any of our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside . our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending and corporate spending on conventions, trade shows and business development. economic contraction, economic uncertainty or the perception by our customers of weak or weakening economic conditions may cause a decline in demand for hotels, casino resorts, trade shows and conventions, and for the type of luxury amenities we offer. in addition, changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as the increased cost of travel, an unstable job market, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, outbreaks of contagious diseases or fears of war and future acts of terrorism. consumer preferences also evolve over time due to a variety of factors, including demographic changes, which, for instance, have resulted in recent growth in consumer demand for non-gaming offerings. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the preferences of consumers and timely react to these trends, and any failure to do so may negatively impact our results of operations. aria, bellagio and mgm grand las vegas in particular may be affected by economic conditions in the far east, and all of our nevada resorts are affected by economic conditions in the united states, and california in particular. a recession, economic slowdown or any other significant economic condition affecting consumers or corporations generally is likely to cause a reduction in visitation to our resorts, 15 w hich would adversely affect our operating results. for example, the prior recession and downturn in consumer and corporate spending had a negative impact on our results of operations. in addition, since we expect a significant number of customers to come to mgm macau from mainland china, general economic and market conditions in china could impact our financial prospects. any slowdown in economic growth or changes to china's current restrictions on travel and currency conversion or movements, including market impacts resulting from china's recent anti-corruption campaign and related tightening of liquidity provided by non-bank lending entities and cross-border currency monitoring (including increased restrictions on union pay withdrawals and other atm limits on the withdrawal of patacas imposed by the government), could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland china to mgm macau and/or the amounts they are willing to spend in the casino. for example, from 2008 through 2010, china readjusted its visa policy toward macau and limited the number of visits that some mainland chinese citizens may make to macau in a given time period. in addition, effective october 2013, china banned zero fare tour groups involving no or low up-front payments and compulsory shopping, which were popular among visitors to macau from mainland china, and in december 2014 the chinese government tightened the enforcement of visa transit rules for those seeking to enter macau at the gongbei border (including requirements to present an airplane ticket to a destination country, a visa issued by such destination country and a valid chinese passport). it is unclear whether these and other measures will continue to be in effect, become more restrictive, or be readopted in the future. these developments have had, and any future policy developments that may be implemented may have, the effect of reducing the number of visitors to macau from mainland china, which could adversely impact tourism and the gaming industry in macau. furthermore, our operations in macau may be impacted by competition for limited labor resources. our success in macau will be impacted by our ability to retain and hire employees. we compete with a large number of casino resorts for a limited number of employees and we anticipate that such competition will grow in light of new developments in macau. while we seek employees from other countries to adequately staff our resorts, certain macau government policies limit our ability to import labor in certain job classifications (for instance, the macau government requires that we only hire macau residents as dealers in our casinos) and any future government policies that freeze or cancel our ability to import labor could cause labor costs to increase. in addition, limitations on the number of gaming tables permitted by the macau government could impact our current expectation on the number of table games we will be able to utilize at our cotai project. such limitations or reduction in table game availability may impact mgm china's results of operations. finally, because additional casino projects are under construction and are to be developed in the future, existing transportation infrastructure may need to be expanded to accommodate increased visitation to macau. if transportation facilities to and from macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting macau, the desirability of macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations at our development in cotai, macau, could be negatively impacted. we may not be able to sustain continued improvements as a result of our profit growth plan. in 2015, we commenced an initiative for sustained growth and margin enhancement, focused on improving our business processes to optimize scale for greater efficiency and lower costs throughout our business. while we believe these initiatives will continue to result in adjusted ebitda benefit, our optimization efforts may fail to achieve expected results or we may not be able to sustain our historic efforts to produce continuous improvements. in addition, while we expect to continue to explore additional opportunities to drive further improvement to our business processes, we may not be able to achieve the historic adjusted ebitda benefits at the same rate (or at all) and we may not be able to institutionalize the continuous improvement business practices that developed in connection with implementing the profit growth plan. our ability to pay ongoing regular dividends to our stockholders is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and may be limited by our holding company structure, existing and future debt agreements entered into by us or our subsidiaries and state law requirements . we intend to pay ongoing regular quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. however, our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, change the amount or frequency of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. in addition, our ability to pay dividends is restricted by certain covenants in our credit agreement, and because we are a holding company with no material direct operations, we are dependent on receiving cash from our operating subsidiaries to generate the funds from operations necessary to pay dividends on our common stock. we expect our subsidiaries will continue to generate significant cash flow necessary to maintain quarterly dividend payments on our common stock, however, their ability to generate funds will be subject to their operating results, cash requirements and financial condition, any applicable provisions of state law that may limit the amount of funds available to us, and compliance with covenants and financial ratios related to existing or future agreements governing any indebtedness at such subsidiaries and any limitations in other agreements such subsidiaries may have with third parties. in addition, each of the companies in our corporate chain must manage its assets, liabilities and working capital in order to meet all of their respective cash obligations. as a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, future dividend payments may be reduced or eliminated. any change in the level of our dividends or the suspension of the payment thereof could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 16 a significant number of our domestic gaming facilities are leased and could experience risks associated with leased property, including risks relating to lease termination, lease extensions, charges and our relationship with the lessor, which could h ave a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. we lease ten of our destination resorts and the park from a subsidiary of mgp pursuant to the master lease. the master lease has a term of ten years with up to four additional five year extensions, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions. the master lease is commonly known as a triple-net lease. accordingly, in addition to rent, we are required to pay the following, among other things: (1) all facility maintena nce, (2) all insurance required in connection with the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties, (3) taxes levied on or with respect to the leased properties (other than taxes on the income of the lessor), (4) all capital expen ditures, and (5) all utilities and other services necessary or appropriate for the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties. we are responsible for paying for these expenses notwithstanding the fact that many of the benefits re ceived in exchange for such costs shall accrue in part to mgp as owner of the associated facilities. in addition, if some of our leased facilities should prove to be unprofitable or experience other issues that would warrant ceasing operations or if we sho uld otherwise decide to exit a particular property, we would remain obligated for lease payments and other obligations under the master lease even if we decided to cease operations at those locations unless we are able to transfer the rights with respect t o a particular property in accordance with the requirements of the master lease. our ability to transfer our obligations under the master lease to a third-party with respect to individual properties, should we decide to withdraw from a particular location, is limited to non-las vegas properties and no more than two las vegas gaming properties and is subject to identifying a willing third-party who meets the requirements for a transferee set forth in the master lease. we may be unable to find an appropriate transferee willing to assume the obligations under the master lease with respect to any such property. in addition, we could incur special charges relating to the closing of such facilities including sublease termination costs, impairment charges and other special charges that would reduce our net income and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, our obligation to pay rent as well as the other costs described above is absolute in vir tually all circumstances, regardless of the performance of the properties and other circumstances that might abate rent in leases that now place these risks on the tenant, such as certain events of casualty and condemnation. any financial, operational, regulatory or other potential challenges that may arise with respect to mgp, as our sole lessor for a significant portion of our business, may adversely impair our operations . we lease a substantial number of the properties that we operate and manage, which represent a significant portion of our operations, from mgp under the master lease. if mgp has financial, operational, regulatory or other challenges, there can be no assurance that mgp will be able to comply with its obligations under the master lease or its other agreements with us. failure on the part of mgp to fulfill its commitments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. james j. murren, our chairman, daniel j. taylor, one of our directors, and william j. hornbuckle, elisa c. gois, and john m. mcmanus, members of our senior management, may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions at mgp . james j. murren serves as our chairman and as the chairman of mgp. in addition, daniel j. taylor, one of our directors, is also a director of mgp and william j. hornbuckle, elisa c. gois, and john m. mcmanus, members of our senior management, are also directors of mgp. while we have procedures in place to address such situations and the organizational documents with respect to mgp contain provisions that reduce or eliminate duties (including fiduciary duties) to any mgp shareholder to the fullest extent permitted by law, these overlapping positions could nonetheless create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when our or mgp's management and directors pursue the same corporate opportunities, such as potential acquisition targets, or face decisions that could have different implications for us and mgp. further, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and mgp (or its subsidiaries) regarding the terms of the agreements governing the separation and the relationship, between us and mgp, such as under the master lease. potential conflicts of interest could also arise if we and mgp enter into any commercial or other adverse arrangements with each other in the future. despite our ability to exercise control over the affairs of mgp as a result of our ownership of the single outstanding class b share of mgp, mgp has adopted a policy under which certain transactions with us, including transactions involving consideration in excess of $25 million, must be approved by a conflicts committee comprised of independent directors of mgp, which could affect our ability to execute our operational and strategic objectives. we own the single outstanding class b share of mgp. the class b share is a non-economic interest in mgp which does not provide its holder any rights to profits or losses or any rights to receive distributions from operations of mgp or upon liquidation or winding up of mgp and which represents a majority of the voting power of mgp's shares so long as the holder of the class b share and its controlled affiliates' (excluding mgp) aggregate beneficial ownership of the combined economic interests in mgp and the operating partnership does not fall below 30%. we, therefore, have the ability to exercise significant control over mgp's affairs, including control over the outcome of all matters submitted to mgp's shareholders for approval. 17 mgp's operating agreement, however, provides that whenever a potential conflict of interest exists or arises between us or any of our affiliates (other than mgp and its subsidiaries ), on the one hand, and mgp or any of its subsidiaries, on the other hand, any resolution or course of action by mgp's board of directors in respect of such conflict of interest shall be conclusively deemed to be fair and reasonable to mgp if it is (i) app roved by a majority of a conflicts committee which consists solely of independent directors (which mgp refers to as special approval ) (such independence determined in accordance with the nyse's listing standards, the standards established by the exchan ge act to serve on an audit committee of a board of directors and certain additional independence requirements in our operating agreement), (ii) determined by mgp's board of directors to be fair and reasonable to mgp or (iii) approved by the affirmative vo te of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of mgp's outstanding voting shares (excluding voting shares owned by us and our affiliates). furthermore, that mgp's operating agreement provides that any transaction with a value, individually o r in the aggregate, over $25 million between us or any of our affiliates (other than mgp and its subsidiaries), on the one hand, and mgp or any of its subsidiaries, on the other hand (any such transaction (other than the exercise of rights by us or any of our affiliates (other than mgp and its subsidiaries) under any of the material agreements entered into on the closing day of mgp's formation transactions), a threshold transaction ), shall be permitted only if (i) special approval is obtained or (ii) such transaction is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of mgp's outstanding voting shares (excluding voting shares owned by us and our affiliates). as a result, certain transactions, including any threshold transactions that we may want to pursue with mgp and that could have significant benefit to us may require special approval. there can be no assurance that the required approval will be obtained with respect to these transactions either from a conflicts committee comprised of independent mgp directors or the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares not held by us and our affiliates. the failure to obtain such requisite consent could materially affect our ability and the cost to execute our operational and strategic objectives. we have agreed not to have any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in china, macau, hong kong and taiwan, other than through mgm china . in connection with the initial public offering of mgm china, the holding company that indirectly owns and operates mgm macau, we entered into a deed of non-compete undertakings with mgm china and ms. ho, pansy catilina chiu king ( ms. ho ) pursuant to which we are restricted from having any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in the people's republic of china, macau, hong kong and taiwan, other than through mgm china. while gaming is currently prohibited in china, hong kong and taiwan, if it is legalized in the future our ability to compete in these locations could be limited until the earliest of (i) march 31, 2020, (ii) the date mgm china's ordinary shares cease to be listed on the stock exchange of hong kong limited or (iii) the date when our ownership of mgm china shares is less than 20% of the then-issued share capital of mgm china. the macau government can terminate mgm grand paradise's subconcession under certain circumstances without compensating mgm grand paradise , exercise its redemption right with respect to the subconcession in 2017 or refuse to grant mgm grand paradise an extension of the subconcession in 2020 , any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business , financial condition , results of operations and cash flows . the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the subconcession in the event of fundamental non-compliance by mgm grand paradise with applicable macau laws or mgm grand paradise's basic obligations under the subconcession contract. mgm grand paradise has the opportunity to remedy any such non-compliance with its fundamental obligations under the subconcession contract within a period to be stipulated by the macau government. upon such termination, all of mgm grand paradise's casino area premises and gaming-related equipment would be transferred automatically to the macau government without compensation to mgm grand paradise, and we would cease to generate any revenues from these operations. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will perform all of its obligations under the subconcession contract in a way that satisfies the requirements of the macau government. furthermore, under the subconcession contract, mgm grand paradise is obligated to comply with any laws and regulations that the macau government might promulgate in the future. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will be able to comply with these laws and regulations or that these laws and regulations would not adversely affect our ability to construct or operate our macau businesses. if any disagreement arises between mgm grand paradise and the macau government regarding the interpretation of, or mgm grand paradise's compliance with, a provision of the subconcession contract, mgm grand paradise will be relying on a consultation and negotiation process with the macau government. during any consultation or negotiation, mgm grand paradise will be obligated to comply with the terms of the subconcession contract as interpreted by the macau government. currently, there is no precedent concerning how the macau government will treat the termination of a concession or subconcession upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances mentioned above. the loss of the subconcession would require us to cease conducting gaming operations in macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 18 in addition, the subconcession contract expires on march 31, 2020. unless the subconcession is extended, or legislation with regard to reversion of casino premises is amended, all of mgm grand paradise's casino premises and gaming-related equipment will automatically be transferred to the macau government on that date without compensation to us, and we will cease to generate any revenues from such gaming operations. beginning on april 20, 2017, the macau g overnment may redeem the subconcession contract by providing us at least one year's prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, mgm grand paradise is entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compen sation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of gaming and non-gaming revenue generated by mgm grand paradise, excluding the convention and exhibition facilities, during the taxable year prior to the redemption, before deducting interest, dep reciation and amortization, multiplied by the number of remaining years before expiration of the subconcession. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will be able to renew or extend the subconcession contract on terms favorable to mgm grand paradise or at all. we also cannot assure you that if the subconcession is redeemed, the compensation paid to mgm grand paradise will be adequate to compensate for the loss of future revenues. we are required to build and open our development in cotai, macau by january 2018. if we are unable to meet this deadline, and the deadline for the development is not extended, we may lose the land concession, which would prohibit us from operating any facilities developed under such land concession . the land concession for the approximately 18 acre site on cotai, macau was officially gazetted on january 9, 2013. if we are unable to build and open our proposed resort and casino by january 2018, and the deadline is not extended, the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the land concession contract. although mgm cotai is expected to open in the second half of 2017, there can be no assurances that the opening will occur within the anticipated timeframe. a loss of the land concession could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. mgm grand paradise is dependent upon gaming promoters for a significant portion of gaming revenues in macau . gaming promoters, who promote gaming and draw high-end customers to casinos, are responsible for a significant portion of mgm grand paradise's gaming revenues in macau. with the rise in gaming in macau and the recent reduction in the number of licensed gaming promoters in macau and in the number of vip rooms operated by licensed gaming promoters, the competition for relationships with gaming promoters has increased. while mgm grand paradise is undertaking initiatives to strengthen relationships with gaming promoters, there can be no assurance that it will be able to maintain, or grow, relationships with gaming promoters. in addition, continued reductions in, and new regulations governing, the gaming promoter segment may result in the closure of additional vip rooms in macau, including vip rooms at mgm macau. if mgm grand paradise is unable to maintain or grow relationships with gaming promoters, or if gaming promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our high-end customers (or if, as a result of recent market conditions in macau, gaming promoters encounter difficulties attracting patrons to come to macau or experience decreased liquidity limiting their ability to grant credit to patrons), mgm grand paradise's ability to grow gaming revenues will be hampered. furthermore, if existing vip rooms at mgm macau are closed there can be no assurance that mgm grand paradise will be able to locate acceptable gaming promoters to run such vip rooms in the future in a timely manner, or at all. in addition, the quality of gaming promoters is important to mgm grand paradise's and our reputation and ability to continue to operate in compliance with gaming licenses. while mgm grand paradise strives for excellence in associations with gaming promoters, we cannot assure you that the gaming promoters with whom mgm grand paradise is or becomes associated will meet the high standards insisted upon. if a gaming promoter falls below mgm grand paradise's standards, mgm grand paradise or we may suffer reputational harm or possibly sanctions from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. we also grant credit lines to certain gaming promoters and any adverse change in the financial performance of those gaming promoters may impact the recoverability of these loans. the future recognition of our foreign tax credit deferred tax asset is uncertain, and the amount of valuation allowance we may apply against such deferred tax asset may change materially in future periods. we currently have significant foreign tax credit deferred tax assets resulting from tax credit carryforwards that are available to reduce potential taxable foreign-sourced income in future periods. we evaluate our foreign tax credit deferred tax asset for recoverability and record a valuation allowance to the extent that we determine it is not more likely than not such asset will be recovered. this evaluation is based on all available evidence, including assumptions about operating profits in the u.s. and abroad. as a result, significant judgment is required in assessing the possible need for a deferred tax asset valuation allowance and changes to our assumptions may have a material impact on the amount of the valuation allowance. for example, a change to our forecasts of future profitability of and distributions from mgm china or a change in our assumptions concerning future u.s. operating profits could result in a material change in the valuation allowance with a corresponding impact on the provision for income taxes in such period. in addition, a renewal in a future period of the exemption from macau's 12% complementary tax on gaming profits could have a material impact on the provision for income taxes in such period. 19 finally, changes in u.s. tax law under consideration as part of broader corporate tax reform, namely a change from a worldwide to a territo rial tax system, could eliminate our ability to utilize some portion or all of our foreign tax credits in future periods and such change could result in a material change in the valuation allowance, or elimination of the foreign tax credit deferred tax ass et in its entirety, with a corresponding impact on the provision for income taxes in the period of such change. extreme weather conditions or climate change may cause property damage or interrupt business, which could harm our business and results of operations . certain of our casino properties are located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes in the united states and severe typhoons in macau. such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. in addition, our operations could be adversely impacted by a drought or other cause of water shortage. a severe drought of extensive duration experienced in las vegas or in the other regions in which we operate could adversely affect our business and results of operations. although we maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such extreme weather conditions. furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. because a majority of our major gaming resorts are concentrated on the las vegas strip, we are subject to greater risks than a gaming company that is more geographically diversified . given that a majority of our major resorts are concentrated on the las vegas strip, our business may be significantly affected by risks common to the las vegas tourism industry. for example, the cost and availability of air services and the impact of any events that disrupt air travel to and from las vegas can adversely affect our business. we cannot control the number or frequency of flights to or from las vegas, but we rely on air traffic for a significant portion of our visitors. reductions in flights by major airlines as a result of higher fuel prices or lower demand can impact the number of visitors to our resorts. additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between las vegas and southern california, where a large number of our customers reside. capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may also affect the number of customers who visit our facilities. we extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables . we conduct a portion of our gaming activities on a credit basis through the issuance of markers which are unsecured instruments. table games players typically are issued more markers than slot players, and high-end players typically are issued more markers than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. high-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. furthermore, the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these high-end customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we issue markers to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit. in addition, mgm grand paradise extends credit to certain gaming promoters and those promoters can extend credit to their customers. uncollectible receivables from high-end customers and gaming promoters could have a significant impact on our results of operations. while gaming debts evidenced by markers and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the full faith and credit clause of the u.s. constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the u.s. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from united states courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. furthermore, we expect that mgm macau will be able to enforce its gaming debts only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent mgm macau gaming customers and gaming promoters are from other jurisdictions, mgm macau may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and mgm macau may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. moreover, under applicable law, mgm macau remains obligated to pay taxes on uncollectible winnings from customers. even where gaming debts are enforceable, they may not be collectible. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. 20 we may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets which could negatively affect our future profits . we review our goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets on an annual basis and during interim r eporting periods in accordance with the authoritative guidance. significant negative trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates or lack of growth have resulted in write-downs and impairment charges in t he past and, if one or more of such events occurs in the future, additional impairment charges or write-downs may be required in future periods. for instance, in 2015, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $1.5 billion to reduce the historical carryi ng value of goodwill related to the mgm china reporting unit. if we are required to record additional impairment charges or write-downs, this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations. leisure and business travel , especially travel by air , are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events , such as terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility . we are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel by air. since most of our customers travel by air to our las vegas and macau properties, any terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war, or any actual or perceived threat to the security of travel by air could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. furthermore, although we have been able to purchase some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism continues to be unavailable. co-investing in our properties, including our investment in citycenter, decreases our ability to manage risk . in addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement our business directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, as a co-investor. co-investors often have shared control over the operation of the property. therefore, the operation of such properties is subject to inherent risk due to the shared nature of the enterprise and the need to reach agreements on material matters. in addition, investments with other investors may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-investor might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. consequently, actions by a co-investor might subject hotels and resorts owned by such entities to additional risk. further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our co-investors. alternatively, our co-investors could take actions binding on the property without our consent. additionally, should a co-investor become bankrupt, we could become liable for its share of liabilities. for instance, citycenter, which is 50% owned and managed by us, has a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect its business and its ability to meet its obligations. if citycenter is unable to meet its financial commitments and we and our co-investor are unable to support future funding requirements, as necessary, such event could have adverse financial consequences to us. in addition, the agreements governing citycenter's indebtedness subject citycenter and its subsidiaries to significant financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on its ability to incur additional indebtedness, place liens upon assets, make distributions to us, make certain investments, consummate certain asset sales, enter into transactions with affiliates (including us) and merge or consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets. the citycenter third amended and restated credit facility also includes certain financial covenants that require citycenter to maintain a maximum total leverage ratio (as defined in citycenter's third amended and restated credit facility) for each quarter. we cannot be sure that citycenter will be able to meet this test in the future or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet the test. any of our future construction, development or expansion projects will be subject to significant development and construction risks, which could have a material adverse impact on related project timetables, costs and our ability to complete the projects . any of our future construction, development or expansion projects will be subject to a number of risks, including: lack of sufficient, or delays in the availability of, financing; changes to plans and specifications; engineering problems, including defective plans and specifications; shortages of, and price increases in, energy, materials and skilled and unskilled labor, and inflation in key supply markets; delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals; changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, residential, real estate development or construction projects; labor disputes or work stoppages; availability of qualified contractors and subcontractors; 21 disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors; personal injuries to workers and other persons; environmental, health and safety issues, including site accidents and the spread of viruses; weather interferences or delays; fires, typhoons and other natural disasters; geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems; and other unanticipated circumstances or cost increases. the occurrence of any of these development and construction risks could increase the total costs, delay or prevent the construction, development, expansion or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of any future projects which we might undertake. for instance, we currently expect the total development costs of our cotai project to be approximately $3.3 billion, excluding development fees eliminated in consolidation, capitalized interest and land-related costs, and we currently expect total development costs of our massachusetts project to be approximately $865 million, excluding capitalized interest and land-related costs. while we believe that the overall budgets for these developments are reasonable, these development costs are estimates and the actual development costs may be higher than expected. we cannot guarantee that our construction costs or total project costs for future projects, including our developments in cotai and massachusetts, will not increase beyond amounts initially budgeted or that the expected design and features of current or future projects will not change. in addition, the regulatory approvals associated with our development projects may require us to open future casino resorts by a certain specified time and to the extent we are unable to meet those deadlines, and any such deadlines are not extended, we may lose our regulatory approval to open a casino resort in a proposed jurisdiction or incur payment penalties in connection with any delays which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. in addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future . although we have all risk property insurance coverage for our operating properties, which covers damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war, or terrorism), each policy has certain exclusions. in addition, our property insurance coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the facilities if there was a total loss. our level of insurance coverage also may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. in addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes; nuclear events; acts of war; loss of income due to cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism; loss of electrical power due to catastrophic events, rolling blackouts or otherwise; deterioration or corrosion; insect or animal damage; and pollution, may not be covered at all under our policies. therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured losses. in addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties that may be injured or harmed. while we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in any such event. we renew our insurance policies (other than our builder's risk insurance) on an annual basis. the cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits, further increase our deductibles, or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business . the development of intellectual property is part of our overall business strategy, and we regard our intellectual property to be an important element of our success. while our business as a whole is not substantially dependent on any one trademark or combination of several of our trademarks or other intellectual property, we seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our business operations through the use of trademarks. we file applications for, and obtain trademarks in, the united states and in foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, parties may infringe our trademarks and our rights may be invalidated or unenforceable. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the united states. monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resource. we cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the united states and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. the unauthorized use or reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. tracinda owns a significant amount of our common stock and may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval . as of february 21, 2017, tracinda corporation beneficially owned approximately 12% of 22 our outstanding common stock and as a result, tracinda may be able to exercise significant influence over any matter requiring stockholder approval, including the approval of significant c orporate transactions. upon mr. kirk kerkorian's passing, tracinda's position in our common stock became subject to the terms of mr. kerkorian's last will and testament, which provides for an orderly disposition of tracinda's position in our common stock. as a result, while we expect that tracinda's ownership of our common stock will decline in the future, tracinda has not indicated when, if or how it intends to sell its position in our common stock. we are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the united states . our operations outside of the united states are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business under non-united states laws, regulations and customs. in particular, the risks associated with the operation of mgm macau or any future operations in which we may engage in any other foreign territories, include: changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies in macau or other foreign jurisdictions; changes in non-united states government programs; possible failure by our employees or agents to comply with anti-bribery laws such as the united states foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions; general economic conditions and policies in china, including restrictions on travel and currency movements; difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non-united states operations; different labor regulations; changes in environmental, health and safety laws; outbreaks of diseases or epidemics; potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; political instability and actual or anticipated military and political conflicts; economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations; and uncertainties regarding judicial systems and procedures. these risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are also exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. if the united states dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other countries, our united states dollar reported income from sources where revenue is dominated in the currencies of other such countries will decrease. any violation of the foreign corrupt practices act or any other similar anti-corruption laws could have a negative impact on us . a significant portion of our revenue is derived from operations outside the united states, which exposes us to complex foreign and u.s. regulations inherent in doing cross-border business and in each of the countries in which we transact business. we are subject to compliance with the united states foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) and other similar anti-corruption laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. while our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. violations of these laws by us or our non-controlled ventures may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties against us, and the sec and u.s. department of justice continue to vigorously pursue enforcement of the fcpa. the occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. we face risks related to pending claims that have been , or future claims that may be , brought against us . claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries in various legal proceedings, and additional legal and tax claims arise from time to time. we may not be successful in the defense or prosecution of our current or future legal proceedings, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. please see the further discussion in legal proceedings and note 13 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. a significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements . work stoppages and other labor problems could negatively affect our business and results of operations. as of december 31, 2016, approximately 34,000 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. a prolonged dispute with the covered employees or any labor unrest, strikes or other business interruptions in connection with labor negotiations or others could have an adverse impact on our operations. further, adverse publicity in the marketplace related to union messaging could further harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. also, wage and/or benefit increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations. in addition, to the extent that our non-union employees join unions, we would have greater exposure to risks associated with labor problems. 23 furthermore, we may have, or acquire in the future, multi-employer plans that are classified as endangered, seriously endangered, or critical status. for instance, borgata's most significant plan is the legacy plan of the national retirement fund, former hereiu and local 54, which has been listed in critical status and is subject to a rehabilitation plan. plans in these classifications must a dopt measures to improve their funded status through a funding improvement or rehabilitation plan, which may require additional contributions from employers (which may take the form of a surcharge on benefit contributions) and/or modifications to retiree b enefits. in addition, while borgata has no current intention to withdraw from these plans, a withdrawal in the future could result in the incurrence of a contingent liability that would be payable in an amount and at such time (or over a period of time) th at would vary based on a number of factors at the time of (and after) withdrawal. any such additional costs may be significant. our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results . we are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. accordingly, increases in energy costs may have a negative impact on our operating results. additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices that affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues. the failure to maintain the integrity of our computer systems and internal customer information could result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines , payment of damages , lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data . we collect and store information relating to our employees and guests for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. the collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the united states and other jurisdictions around the world. privacy regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. in addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us), including accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, unapproved dissemination or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. we rely on proprietary and commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of customer and employee information, such as payment card and other confidential or proprietary information. our data security measures are reviewed and evaluated regularly; however, they might not protect us against increasingly sophisticated and aggressive threats. in addition, while we maintain cyber risk insurance to assist in the cost of recovery from a significant cyber event, such coverage may not be sufficient . we also rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, maintain information and manage our businesses. disruptions in the availability of our computer systems, through cyber attacks or otherwise, could impact our ability to service our customers and adversely affect our sales and the results of operations. for instance, there has been an increase in criminal cyber security attacks against companies where customer and company information has been compromised and company data has been destroyed. our information systems and records, including those we maintain with our third-party service providers, may be subject to cyber security breaches in the future. in addition, our third-party information system service providers face risks relating to cyber security similar to ours, and we do not directly control any of such parties' information security operations. a significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer or company data maintained by us or by a third-party service provider could have an adverse effect on our reputation, cause a material disruption to our operations and management team, and result in remediation expenses, regulatory penalties and litigation by customers and other parties whose information was subject to such attacks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. we may seek to expand through investments in other businesses and properties or through alliances or acquisitions, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets, any of which may be unsuccessful . we intend to consider strategic and complementary acquisitions and investments in other businesses, properties or other assets. furthermore, we may pursue any of these opportunities in alliance with third parties, including mgp. acquisitions and investments in businesses, properties or assets, as well as these alliances, are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: spending cash and incurring debt; assuming contingent liabilities; unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; unanticipated incompatibility of purchasing, logistics, marketing and administration methods; retaining key employees; and 24 consolidating corporate and administrative infras tructures. we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that we will actually realize any anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, investments or alliances. in addition, we periodically review our business to identify properties or other assets that we believe either are non-core, no longer complement our business, are in markets which may not benefit us as much as other markets or could be sold at significant premiums. from time to time, we may attempt to sell these identified properties and assets. there can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to complete dispositions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. if the jurisdictions in which we operate increase gaming taxes and fees , our results could be adversely affected . state and local authorities raise a significant amount of revenue through taxes and fees on gaming activities. from time to time, legislators and government officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. periods of economic downturn or uncertainty and budget deficits may intensify such efforts to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. if the jurisdictions in which we operate were to increase gaming taxes or fees, depending on the magnitude of the increase and any offsetting factors, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. for instance, income generated from gaming operations of mgm grand paradise currently has the benefit of a corporate tax exemption in macau, which exempts us from paying the 12% complementary tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games. this exemption is effective through march 31, 2020, which also runs concurrent with the end of the term of the current gaming subconcession. due to the uncertainty concerning taxation after the subconcession renewal process, we cannot assure you that any extensions of the tax exemption will be granted beyond march 31, 2020. conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of mgm china , the holding company for mgm grand paradise which owns and operates mgm macau . as a result of the initial public offering of shares of mgm china common stock, mgm china now has stockholders who are not affiliated with us, and we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of mgm china may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of mgm china. decisions that could have different implications for us and mgm china, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with mgm china, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest or an actual conflict of interest. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we incorporate by reference the information appearing under market risk in item 7 of this form 10-k.risk factors you should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the sec could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below. risks relating to our substantial indebtedness our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments, including the fixed component of our rent payments to mgp, could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations . as of december 31, 2017, we had approximately $13.0 billion of principal amount of indebtedness outstanding, including $373 million of borrowings outstanding and $1.1 billion of available borrowing capacity under our senior secured credit facility, and $2.3 billion and $2.1 billion of debt outstanding under the mgm china and the operating partnership credit facilities, respectively. in addition, the operating partnership has $1.9 billion of senior notes outstanding. any increase in the interest rates applicable to our existing or future borrowings would increase the cost of our indebtedness and reduce the cash flow available to fund our other liquidity needs. we do not guarantee mgm china's or the operating partnership's obligations under their respective debt agreements and, to the extent mgm china or the operating partnership were to cease to produce cash flow sufficient to service their indebtedness, our ability to make additional investments into such entities is limited by the covenants in our existing senior secured credit facility. in addition, our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could have important negative consequences on us, including: increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other general operating requirements; making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; or placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less-leveraged competitors. moreover, our businesses are capital intensive. for our owned, leased and managed resorts to remain attractive and competitive, we must periodically invest significant capital to keep the properties well-maintained, modernized and refurbished (and, under the master lease we are required to spend an aggregate amount of at least 1% of actual adjusted net revenues from the properties subject to the master lease on capital expenditures at those properties). such investments require an ongoing supply of cash and, to the extent that we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. similarly, development projects, including our development project in massachusetts, and acquisitions could require significant capital commitments, the incurrence of additional debt, guarantees of third-party debt, or the incurrence of contingent liabilities, any or all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. current and future economic, capital and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make planned expenditures . our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness and to fund planned or committed capital expenditures and investments depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, receive distributions from our unconsolidated affiliates or subsidiaries, including citycenter, mgm china and the operating partnership, borrow under our senior secured credit facility or incur new indebtedness. if regional and national economic conditions deteriorate we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or continue to receive distributions from our unconsolidated affiliates or subsidiaries, including citycenter, mgm china and the operating partnership. we cannot assure you that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. we cannot assure you that we will be able to access the capital markets in the future to borrow additional indebtedness on terms that are favorable to us. we have a significant amount of indebtedness maturing in 2019, and thereafter. our ability to timely refinance and replace our indebtedness in the future will depend upon the economic and credit market conditions discussed above. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on a timely basis, we might be forced to seek alternate forms of financing, dispose of certain assets or minimize capital expenditures and other investments. there is no assurance that any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms, on terms that would not be disadvantageous to us, or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements. 12 the agreements governing our senior secured credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly a ffect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity, and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations . covenants governing our senior secured credit facility and certain of our debt securities restrict, am ong other things, our ability to: pay dividends or distributions, repurchase or issue equity, prepay certain debt or make certain investments; incur additional debt; incur liens on assets; sell assets or consolidate with another company or sell all or substantially all of our assets; enter into transactions with affiliates; allow certain subsidiaries to transfer assets; and enter into sale and lease-back transactions. our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. the breach of any such covenants or obligations not otherwise waived or cured could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. in addition, our senior secured credit facility requires us to satisfy certain financial covenants, including a maximum total net leverage ratio, a maximum first lien net leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. any default under our senior secured credit facility or the indentures governing our other debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt. in addition, mgm grand paradise and mgm china are co-borrowers under an amended and restated credit facility and the operating partnership is a borrower under its senior secured credit facility, all of which contain covenants that restrict the respective borrower's ability to engage in certain transactions. in particular, these credit agreements require mgm china and the operating partnership to satisfy certain financial covenants and impose certain operating and financial restrictions on them and their respective subsidiaries (including, with respect to mgm china, mgm grand paradise). these restrictions include, among other things, limitations on their ability to pay dividends or distributions to us, incur additional debt, make investments or engage in other businesses, merge or consolidate with other companies, or transfer or sell assets. we are required to pay a significant portion of our cash flows as fixed and percentage rent under the master lease, which could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations and growth, service our indebtedness and limit our ability to react to competitive and economic changes . for the second lease year commencing april 1, 2017, we were required to make annual rent payments of $662 million under the master lease. in october 2017, subsequent to mgp's acquisition of mgm national harbor's real property, annual rent payments under the master lease increased to $757 million, prorated for the remainder of the second lease year . the master lease also provides for fixed annual escalators of 2% on the base rent in the second through sixth years and the possibility for additional 2% increases thereafter subject to the tenant meeting an adjusted net revenue to rent ratio, as well as potential increases in percentage rent in year six and every five years thereafter based on a percentage of average actual annual net revenue during the preceding five year period. as a result, our ability to fund our own operations, raise capital, make acquisitions, make investments, service our debt and otherwise respond to competitive and economic changes may be adversely affected. for example, our obligations under the master lease may: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and to obtain additional indebtedness; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to making rent payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; restrict our ability to make acquisitions, divestitures and engage in other significant transactions; and cause us to lose our rights with respect to all of the properties leased under the master lease if we fail to pay rent or other amounts or otherwise default on the master lease, given that all of the properties we lease from mgp under the master lease are effectively cross-collateralized as a result of the master lease being a single unitary lease. any of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 risks related to our business we face significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete, and failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow . the hotel, resort and casino industries are highly competitive. we do not believe that our competition is limited to a particular geographic area, and hotel, resort and gaming operations in other states or countries could attract our customers. to the extent that new casinos enter our markets or hotel room capacity is expanded by others in major destination locations, competition will increase. major competitors, including potential new entrants, may also expand their hotel room capacity, expand their range of amenities, improve their level of service, or construct new resorts in las vegas, macau or in the domestic regional markets in which we operate, all of which could attract our customers. also, the growth of gaming in areas outside las vegas, including california, has increased the competition faced by our operations in las vegas and elsewhere. in addition, competition could increase if changes in gaming restrictions in the united states and elsewhere result in the addition of new gaming establishments located closer to our customers than our casinos. for example, while our macau operations compete to some extent with casinos located elsewhere in or near asia, certain countries in the region have legalized casino gaming (including japan) and others (such as taiwan and thailand) may legalize casino gaming (or online gaming) in the future (including, for example, a recent proposal by china to allow gambling on hainan island). furthermore, currently mgm grand paradise holds one of only six gaming concessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or if current concessionaires and subconcessionaires open additional facilities, we would face increased competition. most jurisdictions where casino gaming is currently permitted place numerical and/or geographical limitations on the issuance of new gaming licenses. although a number of jurisdictions in the united states and foreign countries are considering legalizing or expanding casino gaming, in some cases new gaming operations may be restricted to specific locations and we expect that there will be intense competition for any attractive new opportunities (which may include acquisitions of existing properties) that do arise. furthermore, certain jurisdictions, including nevada and new jersey, have also legalized forms of online gaming and other jurisdictions, including illinois, have legalized video gaming terminals. the expansion of online gaming and other types of gaming in these and other jurisdictions may further compete with our operations by reducing customer visitation and spend in our casino resorts. in addition to competition with other hotels, resorts and casinos, we compete with destination travel locations outside of the markets in which we operate. our failure to compete successfully in our various markets and to continue to attract customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations . our ownership and operation of gaming facilities is subject to extensive regulation by the countries, states and provinces in which we operate. these laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. as such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators or, alternatively, cease operations in that jurisdiction. in addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates or subsidiaries in any jurisdiction could have a negative effect on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. the regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to various gaming taxes, which are subject to possible increase at any time by various federal, state, local and foreign legislatures and officials. increases in gaming taxation could also adversely affect our results. for a summary of gaming and other regulations that affect our business, see regulation and licensing and exhibit 99.2 to this annual report on form 10-k. further, our directors, officers, key employees and investors in our properties must meet approval standards of certain state and foreign regulatory authorities. if state regulatory authorities were to find such a person or investor unsuitable, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person or the investor may be required to dispose of his, her or its interest in the property. state regulatory agencies may conduct investigations into the conduct or associations of our directors, officers, key employees or investors to ensure compliance with applicable standards. certain public and private issuances of securities and other transactions also require the approval of certain regulatory authorities. 14 in macau, current laws and regulations co ncerning gaming and gaming concessions are, for the most part, fairly recent and there is little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and regulations. these laws and regulations are complex, and a court or administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue new or modified regulations, that differ from mgm china's interpretation, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, mgm china's activities in macau are subject to administrative review and approval by various government agencies. we cannot assure you that mgm china will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, and any such failure to do so may materially affect its long-term business strategy and operations. macau laws permit redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions; however, to date such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming issues. in addition to gaming regulations, we are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. these laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, smoking, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. for instance, we are subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances, including the clean air act, the clean water act, the resource conservation recovery act, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act and the oil pollution act of 1990. under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or wastes located on its property, regardless of whether or not the present owner or operator knows of, or is responsible for, the presence of such substances or wastes. such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. for example, illinois has enacted a ban on smoking in nearly all public places, including bars, restaurants, work places, schools and casinos. similarly, in october 2014, casinos in macau, including mgm china, implemented a smoking ban which prohibits smoking on all mass market gaming floors and, in 2015, the macau health bureau announced that they will promote the submission of a bill proposing a full smoking ban in casinos, including in vip rooms. the likelihood or outcome of similar legislation in other jurisdictions and referendums in the future cannot be predicted, though any smoking ban would be expected to negatively impact our financial performance. we also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to recordkeeping and reporting obligations as required by various anti-money laundering laws and regulations. for instance, we are subject to regulation under the currency and foreign transactions reporting act of 1970, commonly known as the bank secrecy act, which, among other things, requires us to report to the internal revenue service ( irs ) any currency transactions in excess of $10,000 that occur within a 24-hour gaming day, including identification of the individual(s) involved in the currency transaction. we are also required to report certain suspicious activity where we know, suspect or have reason to suspect transactions, among other things, involve funds from illegal activity or are intended to evade federal regulations or avoid reporting requirements or have no business or lawful purpose. in addition, under the bank secrecy act we are subject to various other rules and regulations involving reporting, recordkeeping and retention. our compliance with the bank secrecy act is subject to periodic examinations by the irs. any such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. any violations of the anti-money laundering laws, including the bank secrecy act, or regulations by any of our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the jurisdictions in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside . our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending and corporate spending on conventions, trade shows and business development. economic contraction, economic uncertainty or the perception by our customers of weak or weakening economic conditions may cause a decline in demand for hotels, casino resorts, trade shows and conventions, and for the type of luxury amenities we offer. in addition, changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as the increased cost of travel, an unstable job market, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, outbreaks of contagious diseases or fears of war and acts of terrorism or other acts of violence. consumer preferences also evolve over time due to a variety of factors, including demographic changes, which, for instance, have resulted in recent growth in consumer demand for non-gaming offerings. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the preferences of consumers and timely react to these trends, and any failure to do so may negatively impact our results of operations. aria, bellagio and mgm grand las vegas in particular may be affected by economic conditions in the far east, and all of our nevada resorts are affected by economic conditions in the united states, and california in particular. a recession, economic slowdown or any other significant economic condition affecting consumers or corporations generally is likely to cause a reduction in visitation to our resorts, which would adversely affect our operating results. for example, the prior recession and downturn in consumer and corporate spending had a negative impact on our results of operations. 15 in addition, since we expect a significant number of customers to come to mgm macau from mainland china, general economic and market condit ions in china could impact our financial prospects. any slowdown in economic growth or changes to china's current restrictions on travel and currency conversion or movements, including market impacts resulting from china's recent anti-corruption campaign a nd related tightening of liquidity provided by non-bank lending entities and cross-border currency monitoring (including increased restrictions on union pay withdrawals and other atm limits on the withdrawal of patacas imposed by the government), could dis rupt the number of visitors from mainland china to mgm macau and/or the amounts they are willing to spend in the casino. for example, from 2008 through 2010, china readjusted its visa policy toward macau and limited the number of visits that some mainland chinese citizens may make to macau in a given time period. in addition, effective october 2013, china banned zero fare tour groups involving no or low up-front payments and compulsory shopping, which were popular among visitors to macau from mainland chi na, and in december 2014 the chinese government tightened the enforcement of visa transit rules for those seeking to enter macau at the gongbei border (including requirements to present an airplane ticket to a destination country, a visa issued by such des tination country and a valid chinese passport). most recently, in july 2017, the chinese government, along with macau authorities, implemented new facial recognition technology on atm machines in macau to strictly enforce the know you r customer regulatio ns for mainland chinese bank cardholders. it is unclear whether these and other measures will continue to be in effect, become more restrictive, or be readopted in the future. these developments have had, and any future policy developments that may be impl emented may have, the effect of reducing the number of visitors to macau from mainland china, which could adversely impact tourism and the gaming industry in macau. furthermore, our operations in macau may be impacted by competition for limited labor resources. our success in macau will be impacted by our ability to retain and hire employees. we compete with a large number of casino resorts for a limited number of employees and we anticipate that such competition will grow in light of new developments in macau. while we seek employees from other countries to adequately staff our resorts, certain macau government policies limit our ability to import labor in certain job classifications (for instance, the macau government requires that we only hire macau residents as dealers in our casinos) and any future government policies that freeze or cancel our ability to import labor could cause labor costs to increase. finally, because additional casino projects are under construction and are to be developed in the future, existing transportation infrastructure may need to be expanded to accommodate increased visitation to macau. if transportation facilities to and from macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting macau, the desirability of macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations at our development in cotai, macau, could be negatively impacted. we may not be able to sustain our continuous improvement efforts. in 2015, we commenced an initiative for sustained growth and margin enhancement, focused on improving our business processes to optimize scale for greater efficiency and lower costs throughout our business. while we believe these initiatives will continue to result in adjusted ebitda benefit, our optimization efforts may fail to achieve expected results or we may not be able to sustain our historic efforts to produce continuous improvements. in addition, while we expect to continue to explore additional opportunities to drive further improvement to our business processes, we may not be able to achieve the historic adjusted ebitda benefits at the same rate (or at all) and we may not be able to institutionalize the continuous improvement business practices that developed in connection with implementing the profit growth plan. our ability to pay ongoing regular dividends to our stockholders is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and may be limited by our holding company structure, existing and future debt agreements entered into by us or our subsidiaries and state law requirements. we intend to pay ongoing regular quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. however, our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, change the amount or frequency of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. in addition, our ability to pay dividends is restricted by certain covenants in our credit agreement, and because we are a holding company with no material direct operations, we are dependent on receiving cash from our operating subsidiaries to generate the funds from operations necessary to pay dividends on our common stock. we expect our subsidiaries will continue to generate significant cash flow necessary to maintain quarterly dividend payments on our common stock; however, their ability to generate funds will be subject to their operating results, cash requirements and financial condition, any applicable provisions of state law that may limit the amount of funds available to us, and compliance with covenants and financial ratios related to existing or future agreements governing any indebtedness at such subsidiaries and any limitations in other agreements such subsidiaries may have with third parties. in addition, each of the companies in our corporate chain must manage its assets, liabilities and working capital in order to meet all of their respective cash obligations. as a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, future dividend payments may be reduced or eliminated. any change in the level of our dividends or the suspension of the payment thereof could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. a significant number of our domestic gaming facilities are leased and could experience risks associated with leased property, including risks relating to lease termination, lease extensions, charges and our relationship with the lessor, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. we lease eleven of our 16 destination resorts and the park from a subsidiary of mgp pursuant to the master lease. the master lease has a term of ten years with up to four additional five year extensions, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions. the master lease is commonly known as a triple-net lease. accordingly, in addition to rent, we are required to pay the following, among other things: (1) all facility maintenance, (2) all insurance required in connection with the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties, (3) taxes levied on or wi th respect to the leased properties (other than taxes on the income of the lessor), (4) all capital expenditures, and (5) all utilities and other services necessary or appropriate for the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased propertie s. we are responsible for paying these expenses notwithstanding the fact that many of the benefits received in exchange for such costs shall accrue in part to mgp as owner of the associated facilities. in addition, if some of our leased facilities should p rove to be unprofitable or experience other issues that would warrant ceasing operations, or if we should otherwise decide to exit a particular property, we would remain obligated for lease payments and other obligations under the master lease even if we d ecided to cease operations at those locations unless we are able to transfer the rights with respect to a particular property in accordance with the requirements of the master lease. our ability to transfer our obligations under the master lease to a third -party with respect to individual properties, should we decide to withdraw from a particular location, is limited to non-las vegas properties and no more than two las vegas gaming properties, and is subject to identifying a willing third-party who meets th e requirements for a transferee set forth in the master lease. we may be unable to find an appropriate transferee willing to assume the obligations under the master lease with respect to any such property. in addition, we could incur special charges relati ng to the closing of such facilities including sublease termination costs, impairment charges and other special charges that would reduce our net income and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations . furthermore, our obligation to pay rent as well as the other costs described above is absolute in virtually all circumstances, regardless of the performance of the properties and other circumstances that might abate rent in leases that now place these ri sks on the tenant, such as certain events of casualty and condemnation. any financial, operational, regulatory or other potential challenges that may arise with respect to mgp, as our sole lessor for a significant portion of our properties, may adversely impair our operations . we lease a substantial number of the properties that we operate and manage, which represents a significant portion of our operations, from mgp under the master lease. if mgp has financial, operational, regulatory or other challenges, there can be no assurance that mgp will be able to comply with its obligations under the master lease or its other agreements with us. failure on the part of mgp to fulfill its commitments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. james j. murren, our chairman, daniel j. taylor, one of our directors, and william j. hornbuckle, elisa c. gois, and john m. mcmanus, members of our senior management, may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions at mgp . james j. murren serves as our chairman and as the chairman of mgp. in addition, daniel j. taylor, one of our directors, is also a director of mgp and william j. hornbuckle, elisa c. gois, and john m. mcmanus, members of our senior management, are also directors of mgp. while we have procedures in place to address such situations and the organizational documents with respect to mgp contain provisions that reduce or eliminate duties (including fiduciary duties) to any mgp shareholder to the fullest extent permitted by law, these overlapping positions could nonetheless create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when our or mgp's management and directors pursue the same corporate opportunities, such as potential acquisition targets, or face decisions that could have different implications for us and mgp. further, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and mgp (or its subsidiaries) regarding the terms of the agreements governing the separation and the relationship, between us and mgp, such as under the master lease. potential conflicts of interest could also arise if we and mgp enter into any commercial or other adverse arrangements with each other in the future. despite our ability to exercise control over the affairs of mgp as a result of our ownership of the single outstanding class b share of mgp, mgp has adopted a policy under which certain transactions with us, including transactions involving consideration in excess of $25 million, must be approved in accordance with certain specified procedures, which could affect our ability to execute our operational and strategic objectives. we own the single outstanding class b share of mgp. the class b share is a non-economic interest in mgp which does not provide its holder any rights to profits or losses or any rights to receive distributions from operations of mgp or upon liquidation or winding up of mgp, and which represents a majority of the voting power of mgp's shares so long as the holder of the class b share and its controlled affiliates' (excluding mgp) aggregate beneficial ownership of the combined economic interests in mgp and the operating partnership does not fall below 30%. we, therefore, have the ability to exercise significant control over mgp's affairs, including control over the outcome of all matters submitted to mgp's shareholders for approval. mgp's operating agreement, however, provides that whenever a potential conflict of interest exists or arises between us or any of our affiliates (other than mgp and its subsidiaries), on the one hand, and mgp or any of its subsidiaries, on the other hand, any resolution or course of action by mgp's board of directors in respect of such conflict of interest shall be conclusively deemed to be fair and reasonable to mgp if it is (i) approved by a majority of a conflicts committee which 17 consists solely of independent directors (which mgp refers to as special approval ) (such independence determined in accordance with the nyse's listing standards, the standards established by the exchange act to serve on an audit committee of a board of directors and certain additional independence requirements in our operating agreement), (ii) determined by mgp's boa rd of directors to be fair and reasonable to mgp or (iii) approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of mgp's outstanding voting shares (excluding voting shares owned by us and our affiliates). furthermore, m gp's operating agreement provides that any transaction with a value, individually or in the aggregate, over $25 million between us or any of our affiliates (other than mgp and its subsidiaries), on the one hand, and mgp or any of its subsidiaries, on the o ther hand (any such transaction (other than the exercise of rights by us or any of our affiliates (other than mgp and its subsidiaries) under any of the material agreements entered into on the closing day of mgp's formation transactions), a threshold tran saction ), shall be permitted only if (i) special approval is obtained or (ii) such transaction is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of mgp's outstanding voting shares (excluding voting shares owned by us and our affiliates). as a result, certain transactions, including any threshold transactions that we may want to pursue with mgp and that could have significant benefit to us may require special approval. there can be no assurance that the required approval will be obtained with respect to these transactions either from a conflicts committee comprised of independent mgp directors or the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares not held by us and our affiliates. the failure to obtain such requisite consent could materially affect our ability and the cost to execute our operational and strategic objectives. we have agreed not to have any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in china, macau, hong kong and taiwan, other than through mgm china . in connection with the initial public offering of mgm china, the holding company that indirectly owns and operates mgm macau, we entered into a deed of non-compete undertakings with mgm china and ms. ho, pansy catilina chiu king ( ms. ho ) pursuant to which we are restricted from having any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in the people's republic of china, macau, hong kong and taiwan, other than through mgm china. while gaming is currently prohibited in china, hong kong and taiwan, if it is legalized in the future our ability to compete in these locations could be limited until the earliest of (i) march 31, 2020, (ii) the date mgm china's ordinary shares cease to be listed on the stock exchange of hong kong limited or (iii) the date when our ownership of mgm china shares is less than 20% of the then-issued share capital of mgm china. the macau government can terminate mgm grand paradise's subconcession under certain circumstances without compensating mgm grand paradise , exercise its redemption right with respect to the subconcession, or refuse to grant mgm grand paradise an extension of the subconcession in 2020 , any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business , financial condition , results of operations and cash flows . the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the subconcession in the event of fundamental non-compliance by mgm grand paradise with applicable macau laws or mgm grand paradise's basic obligations under the subconcession contract. mgm grand paradise has the opportunity to remedy any such non-compliance with its fundamental obligations under the subconcession contract within a period to be stipulated by the macau government. upon such termination, all of mgm grand paradise's casino area premises and gaming-related equipment would be transferred automatically to the macau government without compensation to mgm grand paradise, and we would cease to generate any revenues from these operations. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will perform all of its obligations under the subconcession contract in a way that satisfies the requirements of the macau government. furthermore, under the subconcession contract, mgm grand paradise is obligated to comply with any laws and regulations that the macau government might promulgate in the future. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will be able to comply with these laws and regulations or that these laws and regulations would not adversely affect our ability to construct or operate our macau businesses. if any disagreement arises between mgm grand paradise and the macau government regarding the interpretation of, or mgm grand paradise's compliance with, a provision of the subconcession contract, mgm grand paradise will be relying on a consultation and negotiation process with the macau government. during any consultation or negotiation, mgm grand paradise will be obligated to comply with the terms of the subconcession contract as interpreted by the macau government. currently, there is no precedent concerning how the macau government will treat the termination of a concession or subconcession upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances mentioned above. the loss of the subconcession would require us to cease conducting gaming operations in macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the subconcession contract expires on march 31, 2020. unless the subconcession is extended, or legislation with regard to reversion of casino premises is amended, all of mgm grand paradise's casino premises and gaming-related equipment will automatically be transferred to the macau government on that date without compensation to us, and we will cease to generate any revenues from such gaming operations. beginning on april 20, 2017, the macau government may redeem the subconcession contract by providing us at least one year's prior notice. in the event the macau government 18 exercises t his redemption right, mgm grand paradise is entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of gaming and non-gaming revenue generated by mgm grand paradise, excluding the conv ention and exhibition facilities, during the taxable year prior to the redemption, before deducting interest, depreciation and amortization, multiplied by the number of remaining years before expiration of the subconcession. we cannot assure you that mgm g rand paradise will be able to renew or extend the subconcession contract on terms favorable to mgm grand paradise or at all. we also cannot assure you that if the subconcession is redeemed, the compensation paid to mgm grand paradise will be adequate to co mpensate for the loss of future revenues. mgm grand paradise is dependent upon gaming promoters for a significant portion of gaming revenues in macau . gaming promoters, who promote gaming and draw high-end customers to casinos, are responsible for a significant portion of mgm grand paradise's gaming revenues in macau. with the rise in gaming in macau and the recent reduction in the number of licensed gaming promoters in macau and in the number of vip rooms operated by licensed gaming promoters, the competition for relationships with gaming promoters has increased. while mgm grand paradise is undertaking initiatives to strengthen relationships with gaming promoters, there can be no assurance that it will be able to maintain, or grow, relationships with gaming promoters. in addition, continued reductions in, and new regulations governing, the gaming promoter segment may result in the closure of additional vip rooms in macau, including vip rooms at mgm macau. if mgm grand paradise is unable to maintain or grow relationships with gaming promoters, or if gaming promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our high-end customers (or if, as a result of recent market conditions in macau, gaming promoters encounter difficulties attracting patrons to come to macau or experience decreased liquidity limiting their ability to grant credit to patrons), mgm grand paradise's ability to grow gaming revenues will be hampered. furthermore, if existing vip rooms at mgm macau are closed there can be no assurance that mgm grand paradise will be able to locate acceptable gaming promoters to run such vip rooms in the future in a timely manner, or at all. in addition, the quality of gaming promoters is important to mgm grand paradise's and our reputation and ability to continue to operate in compliance with gaming licenses. while mgm grand paradise strives for excellence in associations with gaming promoters, we cannot assure you that the gaming promoters with whom mgm grand paradise is or becomes associated will meet the high standards insisted upon. if a gaming promoter falls below mgm grand paradise's standards, mgm grand paradise or we may suffer reputational harm or possibly sanctions from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. we also grant credit lines to certain gaming promoters and any adverse change in the financial performance of those gaming promoters may impact the recoverability of these loans. we are subject to taxation by various governments and agencies and the rate of taxation in the jurisdictions in which we operate could change in the future. we are subject to tax by various governments and agencies, both in the u.s. and in macau. changes in the rates of taxation, the amount of taxes we owe and the time when income is subject to taxation, the macau income tax exemption or the imposition of foreign withholding taxes could increase our overall rate of taxation. any of these changes could materially impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the future recognition of our foreign tax credit deferred tax asset is uncertain, and the amount of valuation allowance we may apply against such deferred tax asset may change materially in future periods. we currently have significant deferred tax assets resulting from foreign tax credit carryforwards that are available to reduce potential taxable foreign-sourced income in future periods. we evaluate our foreign tax credit deferred tax asset for recoverability and record a valuation allowance to the extent that we determine it is not more likely than not such asset will be recovered. this evaluation is based on all available evidence, including assumptions concerning future u.s. operating profits and our initial interpretations of the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) in the absence of regulatory or other clarifying guidance. as a result, significant judgment is required in assessing the possible need for a valuation allowance and changes to our assumptions could result in a material change in the valuation allowance with a corresponding impact on the provision for income taxes in the period including such change. extreme weather conditions or climate change may cause property damage or interrupt business, which could harm our business and results of operations . certain of our casino properties are located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes in the united states and severe typhoons in macau. such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. in addition, our operations could be adversely impacted by a drought or other cause of water shortage. a severe drought of extensive duration experienced in las vegas or in the other regions in which we operate could adversely affect our business and results of operations. although we maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that 19 we will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims re sulting from such extreme weather conditions. furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period, which would have a ma terial adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. because a majority of our major gaming resorts are concentrated on the las vegas strip, we are subject to greater risks than a gaming company that is more geographically diversified . given that a majority of our major resorts are concentrated on the las vegas strip, our business may be significantly affected by risks common to the las vegas tourism industry. for example, the cost and availability of air services and the impact of any events that disrupt air travel to and from las vegas can adversely affect our business. we cannot control the number or frequency of flights to or from las vegas, but we rely on air traffic for a significant portion of our visitors. reductions in flights by major airlines as a result of higher fuel prices or lower demand can impact the number of visitors to our resorts. additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between las vegas and southern california, where a large number of our customers reside. capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may also affect the number of customers who visit our facilities. we extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables . we conduct a portion of our gaming activities on a credit basis through the issuance of markers which are unsecured instruments. table games players typically are issued more markers than slot players, and high-end players typically are issued more markers than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. high-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. furthermore, the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these high-end customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we issue markers to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit. in addition, mgm grand paradise extends credit to certain gaming promoters and those promoters can extend credit to their customers. uncollectible receivables from high-end customers and gaming promoters could have a significant impact on our results of operations. while gaming debts evidenced by markers and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the full faith and credit clause of the u.s. constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the u.s. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from united states courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. furthermore, we expect that mgm macau will be able to enforce its gaming debts only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent mgm macau gaming customers and gaming promoters are from other jurisdictions, mgm macau may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and mgm macau may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. moreover, under applicable law, mgm macau remains obligated to pay taxes on uncollectible winnings from customers. even where gaming debts are enforceable, they may not be collectible. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. we may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets which could negatively affect our future profits . we review our goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets on an annual basis and during interim reporting periods in accordance with the authoritative guidance. significant negative trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates or lack of growth have resulted in write-downs and impairment charges in the past and, if one or more of such events occurs in the future, additional impairment charges or write-downs may be required in future periods. for instance, in 2015, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $1.5 billion to reduce the historical carrying value of goodwill related to the mgm china reporting unit. if we are required to record additional impairment charges or write-downs, this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations. leisure and business travel , especially travel by air , are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events , such as terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or acts of war or hostility . we are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel by air. since most of our customers travel by air to our las vegas and macau properties, any terrorist act or other acts of violence, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war, or any actual or perceived threat to the security of travel by air could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. furthermore, although we have been able to purchase some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism continues to be unavailable. 20 co-investing in our properties, including our investment in citycenter, decreases our ability to manage risk . in addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement our business directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, as a co-investor. co-investors often have shared control over the operation of the property. therefore, the operation of such properties is subject to inherent risk due to the shared nature of the enterprise and the need to reach agreements on material matters. in addition, investments with other investors may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-investor might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. consequently, actions by a co-investor might subject hotels and resorts owned by such entities to additional risk. further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our co-investors. alternatively, our co-investors could take actions binding on the property without our consent. additionally, should a co-investor become bankrupt, we could become liable for its share of liabilities. for instance, citycenter, which is 50% owned and managed by us, has a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect its business and its ability to meet its obligations. if citycenter is unable to meet its financial commitments and we and our co-investor are unable to support future funding requirements, as necessary, such event could have adverse financial consequences to us. in addition, the agreements governing citycenter's indebtedness subject citycenter and its subsidiaries to significant financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on its ability to incur additional indebtedness, place liens upon assets, make distributions to us, make certain investments, consummate certain asset sales, enter into transactions with affiliates (including us) and merge or consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets. the citycenter credit facility also includes certain financial covenants that require citycenter to maintain a maximum total net leverage ratio (as defined in citycenter's credit facility) for each quarter. we cannot be sure that citycenter will be able to meet this test in the future or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet the test. any of our future construction, development or expansion projects will be subject to significant development and construction risks, which could have a material adverse impact on related project timetables, costs and our ability to complete the projects . any of our future construction, development or expansion projects will be subject to a number of risks, including: lack of sufficient, or delays in the availability of, financing; changes to plans and specifications; engineering problems, including defective plans and specifications; shortages of, and price increases in, energy, materials and skilled and unskilled labor, and inflation in key supply markets; delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals; changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, residential, real estate development or construction projects; labor disputes or work stoppages; availability of qualified contractors and subcontractors; disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors; personal injuries to workers and other persons; environmental, health and safety issues, including site accidents and the spread of viruses; weather interferences or delays; fires, typhoons and other natural disasters; geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems; and other unanticipated circumstances or cost increases. the occurrence of any of these development and construction risks could increase the total costs, delay or prevent the construction, development, expansion or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of any future projects which we might undertake. for instance, we currently expect the total development costs of our cotai project to be approximately $3.4 billion, excluding development fees eliminated in consolidation, capitalized interest and land-related costs, and we currently expect total development costs of our massachusetts project to be approximately $960 million, excluding capitalized interest and land-related costs. while we believe that the overall budgets for these developments are reasonable, these development costs are estimates and the actual development costs may be higher than expected. we cannot guarantee that our construction costs or total project costs for future projects, including our development in massachusetts, will not increase beyond amounts initially budgeted or that the expected design and features of current or future projects will not 21 change. in additio n, the regulatory approvals associated with our development projects may require us to open future casino resorts by a certain specified time and to the extent we are unable to meet those deadlines, and any such deadlines are not extended, we may lose our regulatory approval to open a casino resort in a proposed jurisdiction, or incur payment penalties in connection with any delays which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we also make significant capital expenditures to maintain and upgrade our resorts, which may disrupt operations and displace revenue at the properties, including revenue lost while rooms, restaurants and meeting spaces are under renovation and out of service. we are required to commence gaming operations at mgm springfield no later than september 2019, one year from the opening date approved by the massachusetts gaming commission. if we are unable to meet this deadline, the massachusetts gaming commission may suspend or revoke our gaming license. pursuant to the gaming act, we are required to commence gaming operations at mgm springfield no later than september 2019, one year from the opening date approved by the massachusetts gaming commission (the mgc ). if mgm springfield fails to begin gaming operations by september 2019 or receive an extension, mgm springfield is subject to suspension or revocation of its gaming license by the mgc and may, after being found by the mgc after a hearing to have acted in bad faith in its application, be assessed a fine of up to $50,000,000. failure to meet the deadline could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows from this property. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. in addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future . although we have all risk property insurance coverage for our operating properties, which covers damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war, or terrorism or other acts of violence), each policy has certain exclusions. in addition, our property insurance coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the facilities if there was a total loss. our level of insurance coverage also may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. in addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, acts of war, loss of income due to cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism or other acts of violence, loss of electrical power due to catastrophic events, rolling blackouts or otherwise, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage, and pollution, may not be covered at all under our policies. therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured losses. in addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties that may be injured or harmed. while we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in any such event. we renew our insurance policies (other than our builder's risk insurance) on an annual basis. the cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits, further increase our deductibles, or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business . the development of intellectual property is part of our overall business strategy, and we regard our intellectual property to be an important element of our success. while our business as a whole is not substantially dependent on any one trademark or combination of several of our trademarks or other intellectual property, we seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our business operations through the use of trademarks. we file applications for, and obtain trademarks in, the united states and in foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, parties may infringe our trademarks and our rights may be invalidated or unenforceable. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the united states. monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resource. we cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the united states and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. the unauthorized use or reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. 22 we are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the united states . our operations outside of the united states are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business under non-united states laws, regulations and customs. in particular, the risks associated with the operation of mgm macau or any f uture operations in which we may engage in any other foreign territories, include: changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies in macau or other foreign jurisdictions; changes in non-united states government programs; possible failure by our employees or agents to comply with anti-bribery laws such as the united states foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions; general economic conditions and policies in china, including restrictions on travel and currency movements; difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non-united states operations; different labor regulations; changes in environmental, health and safety laws; outbreaks of diseases or epidemics; potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; political instability and actual or anticipated military and political conflicts; economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations; and uncertainties regarding judicial systems and procedures. these risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are also exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. if the united states dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other countries, our united states dollar reported income from sources where revenue is denominated in the currencies of other such countries will decrease. any violation of the foreign corrupt practices act or any other similar anti-corruption laws could have a negative impact on us . a significant portion of our revenue is derived from operations outside the united states, which exposes us to complex foreign and u.s. regulations inherent in doing cross-border business and in each of the countries in which we transact business. we are subject to compliance with the united states foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) and other similar anti-corruption laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. while our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. violations of these laws by us or our non-controlled ventures may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties against us, and the sec and u.s. department of justice continue to vigorously pursue enforcement of the fcpa. the occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. we face risks related to pending claims that have been , or future claims that may be , brought against us . claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries in various legal proceedings, and additional legal and tax claims arise from time to time. we may not be successful in the defense or prosecution of our current or future legal proceedings, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. please see the further discussion in legal proceedings and note 12 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. a significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements. work stoppages and other labor problems could negatively affect our business and results of operations. as of december 31, 2017, approximately 36,000 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. the collective bargaining agreements covering most of our las vegas union employees expire in 2018. a prolonged dispute with the covered employees or any labor unrest, strikes or other business interruptions in connection with labor negotiations or others could have an adverse impact on our operations. further, adverse publicity in the marketplace related to union messaging could further harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. also, wage and/or benefit increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations. for instance, beau rivage is currently engaged in negotiations for an initial collective bargaining agreement with a council of unions representing various hotel and food and beverage constituencies, borgata will be engaged in negotiations with three unions in 2018, and mgm national harbor is in negotiations with one union . in addition, to the extent that our non-union employees join unions, we would have greater exposure to risks associated with labor problems. furthermore, we may have, or acquire in the future, multi-employer plans that are classified as endangered, seriously endangered, or critical status. for instance, borgata's most significant plan as of december 31, 2017 is the legacy plan of the national retirement fund, which has 23 been listed in critical status and is subject to a rehabilitation plan. plans in these classifications must adopt measures to improve their funded status through a funding improvement or rehabilitation p lan, which may require additional contributions from employers (which may take the form of a surcharge on benefit contributions) and/or modifications to retiree benefits. in addition, while borgata has no current intention to withdraw from these plans, a w ithdrawal in the future could result in the incurrence of a contingent liability that would be payable in an amount and at such time (or over a period of time) that would vary based on a number of factors at the time of (and after) withdrawal. any such add itional costs may be significant. our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results . we are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. accordingly, increases in energy costs may have a negative impact on our operating results. additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices that affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues. the failure to maintain the integrity of our computer systems and internal customer information could result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. we collect and store information relating to our employees, guests, and others for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. the collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the united states and other jurisdictions around the world. privacy laws and regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. various federal, state and foreign legislative or regulatory bodies may enact or adopt new or additional laws and regulations concerning privacy, data retention, data transfer, and data protection issues. for example, the european union has adopted a data protection regulation, known as the general data protection regulation, which will become fully enforceable in may 2018 that includes operational and compliance requirements that are different from those currently in place and that also include significant penalties for non-compliance. compliance with applicable privacy laws and regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. in addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy laws and regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us), including accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, unapproved dissemination or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. we rely on proprietary and commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of customer and employee information, such as payment card and other confidential or proprietary information. our data security measures are reviewed and evaluated regularly; however, they might not protect us against increasingly sophisticated and aggressive threats including, but not limited to, computer malware, viruses, and hacking and phishing attacks by third parties. in addition, while we maintain cyber risk insurance to assist in the cost of recovery from a significant cyber event, such coverage may not be sufficient . we also rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, maintain information and manage our businesses. disruptions in the availability of our computer systems, through cyber-attacks or otherwise, could impact our ability to service our customers and adversely affect our sales and the results of operations. for instance, there has been an increase in criminal cyber security attacks against companies where customer and company information has been compromised and company data has been destroyed. our information systems and records, including those we maintain with our third-party service providers, may be subject to cyber security breaches in the future. in addition, our third-party information system service providers face risks relating to cyber security similar to ours, and we do not directly control any of such parties' information security operations. a significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer or company data maintained by us or by a third-party service provider could have an adverse effect on our reputation, cause a material disruption to our operations and management team, and result in remediation expenses, regulatory penalties and litigation by customers and other parties whose information was subject to such attacks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to risks related to corporate social responsibility and reputation. many factors influence our reputation and the value of our brands including the perception held by our customers, business partners, other key stakeholders and the communities in which we do business. our business faces increasing scrutiny related to environmental, social and governance activities and risk of damage to our reputation and the value of our brands if we fail to act responsibly in a number of areas, such as environmental stewardship, supply chain management, climate change, diversity and inclusion, workplace conduct, human rights, philanthropy and support for local communities. any harm to our reputation could impact employee engagement and retention and the willingness of customers and our partners to do business with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. 24 we may seek to expand through investments in other businesses and properties or through alliances or acquisitions, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets, any of which may be unsuccessful . we intend to consider strategic and compl ementary acquisitions and investments in other businesses, properties or other assets. furthermore, we may pursue any of these opportunities in alliance with third parties, including mgp. acquisitions and investments in businesses, properties or assets, as well as these alliances, are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: spending cash and incurring debt; assuming contingent liabilities; unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; unanticipated incompatibility of purchasing, logistics, marketing and administration methods; retaining key employees; and consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that we will actually realize any anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, investments or alliances. in addition, even if we are able to successfully integrate new assets and businesses, the integration of such assets and businesses may result in unanticipated costs, competitive responses, loss or customer or other business relationships and the diversion of management attention. in addition, we periodically review our business to identify properties or other assets that we believe either are non-core, no longer complement our business, are in markets which may not benefit us as much as other markets or could be sold at significant premiums. from time to time, we may attempt to sell these identified properties and assets. there can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to complete dispositions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. if the jurisdictions in which we operate increase gaming taxes and fees , our results could be adversely affected . state and local authorities raise a significant amount of revenue through taxes and fees on gaming activities. from time to time, legislators and government officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. periods of economic downturn or uncertainty and budget deficits may intensify such efforts to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. if the jurisdictions in which we operate were to increase gaming taxes or fees, depending on the magnitude of the increase and any offsetting factors, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. for instance, income generated from gaming operations of mgm grand paradise currently has the benefit of a corporate tax exemption in macau, which exempts us from paying the 12% complementary tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games. this exemption is effective through march 31, 2020, which also runs concurrent with the end of the term of the current gaming subconcession. due to the uncertainty concerning taxation after the subconcession renewal process, we cannot assure you that any extensions of the tax exemption will be granted beyond march 31, 2020. conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of mgm china , the holding company for mgm grand paradise which owns and operates mgm macau . as a result of the initial public offering of shares of mgm china common stock, mgm china now has stockholders who are not affiliated with us, and we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of mgm china may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of mgm china. decisions that could have different implications for us and mgm china, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with mgm china, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest or an actual conflict of interest. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we incorporate by reference the information appearing under market risk in item 7 of this form 10-k.risk factors 11 risk factors you should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the sec could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below. risks relating to our substantial indebtedness our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments, including the fixed component of our rent payments to mgp, could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations . as of december 31, 2018, we had approximately $15.3 billion of principal amount of indebtedness outstanding, including $750 million of borrowings outstanding and $1.5 billion of available borrowing capacity under our senior secured credit facility, and $2.4 billion and $2.8 billion of debt outstanding under the mgm china and the operating partnership credit facilities, respectively. in addition, as of december 31, 2018, the operating partnership had $1.9 billion of senior notes outstanding. any increase in the interest rates applicable to our existing or future borrowings would increase the cost of our indebtedness and reduce the cash flow available to fund our other liquidity needs. we do not guarantee mgm china's or the operating partnership's obligations under their respective debt agreements and, to the extent mgm china or the operating partnership were to cease to produce cash flow sufficient to service their indebtedness, our ability to make additional investments into such entities is limited by the covenants in our existing senior secured credit facility. in addition, our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could have important negative consequences on us, including: increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy (including returning value to our shareholders) or other general operating requirements; making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; or placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less-leveraged competitors. moreover, our businesses are capital intensive. for our owned, leased and managed resorts to remain attractive and competitive, we must periodically invest significant capital to keep the properties well-maintained, modernized and refurbished (and, under the master lease we are required to spend an aggregate amount of at least 1% of actual adjusted net revenues from the properties subject to the master lease on capital expenditures at those properties). such investments require an ongoing supply of cash and, to the extent that we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. similarly, development projects, including any potential future development of an integrated resort in japan, and acquisitions could require significant capital commitments, the incurrence of additional debt, guarantees of third-party debt, or the incurrence of contingent liabilities, any or all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. current and future economic, capital and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make planned expenditures . our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness and to fund planned or committed capital expenditures and investments depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, receive distributions from our unconsolidated affiliates or subsidiaries, including citycenter, mgm china and the operating partnership, borrow under our senior secured credit facility or incur new indebtedness. if regional and national economic conditions deteriorate we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or continue to receive distributions from our unconsolidated affiliates or subsidiaries, including citycenter, mgm china and the operating partnership. we cannot assure you that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. we cannot assure you that we will be able to access the capital markets in the future to borrow additional indebtedness on terms that are favorable to us. we have a significant amount of indebtedness maturing in 2020, and thereafter. our ability to timely refinance and replace our indebtedness in the future will depend upon the economic and credit market conditions discussed above. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on a timely basis, we might be forced to seek alternate forms of financing, dispose of certain assets or minimize capital expenditures and other investments. there is no assurance that any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms, on terms that would not be disadvantageous to us, or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements. 11 the agreements governing our senior secured credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquid ity, and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations . covenants governing our senior secured credit facility and certain of our debt securities restrict, among other things, our ability to: pay dividends or distributions, repurchase equity, prepay certain debt or make certain investments; incur additional debt; incur liens on assets; sell assets or consolidate with another company or sell all or substantially all of our assets; enter into transactions with affiliates; allow certain subsidiaries to transfer assets or enter into certain agreements; and enter into sale and lease-back transactions. our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. the breach of any such covenants or obligations not otherwise waived or cured could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. in addition, our senior secured credit facility requires us to satisfy certain financial covenants, including a maximum total net leverage ratio, a maximum first lien net leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. any default under our senior secured credit facility or the indentures governing our other debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt. in addition, mgm grand paradise and mgm china are co-borrowers under an amended and restated credit facility and the operating partnership is a borrower under its senior secured credit facility, all of which contain covenants that restrict the respective borrower's ability to engage in certain transactions. in particular, these credit agreements require mgm china and the operating partnership to satisfy certain financial covenants and impose certain operating and financial restrictions on them and their respective subsidiaries (including, with respect to mgm china, mgm grand paradise). these restrictions include, among other things, limitations on their ability to pay dividends or distributions to us, incur additional debt, make investments or engage in other businesses, merge or consolidate with other companies, or transfer or sell assets. we are required to pay a significant portion of our cash flows as fixed and percentage rent under the master lease, which could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations and growth, service our indebtedness and limit our ability to react to competitive and economic changes . for the third lease year which commenced on april 1, 2018, we were required to make annual rent payments of $770 million under the master lease. the master lease also provides for fixed annual escalators of 2% on the base rent in the second through sixth years and the possibility for additional 2% increases thereafter subject to the tenant meeting an adjusted net revenue to rent ratio, as well as potential increases in percentage rent in year six and every five years thereafter based on a percentage of average actual annual net revenue during the preceding five year period. as a result, our ability to fund our own operations, raise capital, make acquisitions, make investments, service our debt and otherwise respond to competitive and economic changes may be adversely affected. for example, our obligations under the master lease may: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and to obtain additional indebtedness; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to making rent payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; restrict our ability to make acquisitions, divestitures and engage in other significant transactions; and cause us to lose our rights with respect to all of the properties leased under the master lease if we fail to pay rent or other amounts or otherwise default on the master lease, given that all of the properties we lease from mgp under the master lease are effectively cross-collateralized as a result of the master lease being a single unitary lease. any of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 risks related to our business we face significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete, and failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow . the hotel, resort and casino industries are highly competitive. we do not believe that our competition is limited to a particular geographic area, and hotel, resort and gaming operations in other states or countries could attract our customers. to the extent that new casinos enter our markets or hotel room capacity is expanded by others in major destination locations, competition will increase. major competitors, including potential new entrants, may also expand their hotel room capacity, expand their range of amenities, improve their level of service, or construct new resorts in las vegas, macau or in the domestic regional markets in which we operate, all of which could attract our customers. also, the growth of gaming in areas outside las vegas, including california, has increased the competition faced by our operations in las vegas and elsewhere. while we believe our principal competitors are major gaming and hospitality resorts with well-established and recognized brands, we also compete against smaller hotel offerings and peer-to-peer inventory sources, which allow travelers to book short-term rentals of homes and apartments from owners. we expect that we will continue to face increased competition from new channels of distribution, innovations in consumer-facing technology platforms and other transformations in the travel industry that could impact our ability to attract and retain business. in addition, competition could increase if changes in gaming restrictions in the united states and elsewhere result in the addition of new gaming establishments located closer to our customers than our casinos. for example, while our macau operations compete to some extent with casinos located elsewhere in or near asia, certain countries in the region have legalized casino gaming (including japan) and others (such as taiwan and thailand) may legalize casino gaming (or online gaming) in the future (including, for example, a recent proposal by china to allow gambling on hainan island). furthermore, currently mgm grand paradise holds one of only six gaming concessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or if current concessionaires and subconcessionaires open additional facilities, we would face increased competition. most jurisdictions where casino gaming is currently permitted place numerical and/or geographical limitations on the issuance of new gaming licenses. although a number of jurisdictions in the united states and foreign countries are considering legalizing or expanding casino gaming, in some cases new gaming operations may be restricted to specific locations and we expect that there will be intense competition for any attractive new opportunities (which may include acquisitions of existing properties) that do arise. furthermore, certain jurisdictions, including nevada and new jersey, have also legalized forms of online gaming and other jurisdictions, including illinois, have legalized video gaming terminals. additionally, in may 2018, the united states supreme court overturned a federal ban on sports betting that had prohibited single-game gambling in most states, raising the potential for increased competition in sports betting should additional states pass legislation to legalize it. the expansion of online gaming, sports betting, and other types of gaming in these and other jurisdictions may further compete with our operations by reducing customer visitation and spend in our casino resorts. in addition to competition with other hotels, resorts and casinos, we compete with destination travel locations outside of the markets in which we operate. our failure to compete successfully in our various markets and to continue to attract customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations . our ownership and operation of gaming facilities is subject to extensive regulation by the countries, states and provinces in which we operate. these laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. as such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators or, alternatively, cease operations in that jurisdiction. in addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates or subsidiaries in any jurisdiction could have a negative effect on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. the regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. for example, recently the u.s. department of justice reversed a 2011 opinion that had concluded that the wire act of 1961 was limited to gaming relating to sports; the department of justice concluded instead that certain of the wire act's provisions apply also to other forms of wagering activity. this may impact our ability to engage in online gaming in the future. in addition, we are subject to various gaming taxes, which are subject to possible increase at any time by various federal, state, local and foreign legislatures and officials. increases in gaming taxation could also adversely affect our results. for a summary of gaming and other regulations that affect our business, see regulation and licensing and exhibit 99.2 to this annual report on form 10-k. 13 further, our directors, officers, key employees and investors in our properties must meet approval standards of certain state and foreign regulatory authorities. if state regulatory authorities were to find such a person or investor unsuitable, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person or the investor may be required to dispose of his, her or its interest in the property. state regulatory agencies may conduct investigations into the conduct or associations of our directors, officers, key employees or investors to ensure compliance with applicable standards. certain public and private issuances of securities and other transactions also require the approval of certain regulatory authorities. in macau, current laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming concessions are, for the most part, fairly recent and there is little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and regulations. these laws and regulations are complex, and a court or administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue new or modified regulations, that differ from mgm china's interpretation, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, mgm china's activities in macau are subject to administrative review and approval by various government agencies. we cannot assure you that mgm china will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, and any such failure to do so may materially affect its long-term business strategy and operations. macau laws permit redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions; however, to date such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming issues. in addition to gaming regulations, we are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. these laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, smoking, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. for instance, we are subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances, including the clean air act, the clean water act, the resource conservation recovery act, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act and the oil pollution act of 1990. under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or wastes located on its property, regardless of whether or not the present owner or operator knows of, or is responsible for, the presence of such substances or wastes. such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. for example, illinois has enacted a ban on smoking in nearly all public places, including bars, restaurants, work places, schools and casinos. in addition, effective january 1, 2019, smoking in casinos in macau, including mgm macau and mgm cotai, will only be permitted inside specially ventilated smoking rooms, rather than outside smoking areas or vip areas. the likelihood or outcome of similar legislation in other jurisdictions and referendums in the future cannot be predicted, though any smoking ban would be expected to negatively impact our financial performance. we also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to recordkeeping and reporting obligations as required by various anti-money laundering laws and regulations. for instance, we are subject to regulation under the currency and foreign transactions reporting act of 1970, commonly known as the bank secrecy act, which, among other things, requires us to report to the internal revenue service ( irs ) any currency transactions in excess of $10,000 that occur within a 24-hour gaming day, including identification of the individual(s) involved in the currency transaction. we are also required to report certain suspicious activity where we know, suspect or have reason to suspect transactions, among other things, involve funds from illegal activity or are intended to evade federal regulations or avoid reporting requirements or have no business or lawful purpose. in addition, under the bank secrecy act we are subject to various other rules and regulations involving reporting, recordkeeping and retention. our compliance with the bank secrecy act is subject to periodic examinations by the irs. any such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. any violations of the anti-money laundering laws, including the bank secrecy act, or regulations by any of our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the jurisdictions in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside . our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending and corporate spending on conventions, trade shows and business development. economic contraction, economic uncertainty or the perception by our customers of weak or weakening economic conditions may cause a decline in demand for hotels, casino resorts, trade shows and conventions, and for the type of luxury amenities we offer. in addition, changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as the increased cost of travel, an unstable job market, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, outbreaks of contagious diseases or fears of war and acts of terrorism or other acts of violence. consumer preferences also evolve over time due to a variety of factors, including demographic changes, which, for instance, have resulted in recent growth in consumer demand for non-gaming offerings. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the preferences of consumers and timely react to 14 these trends, and any failure to do so may negatively impact our results of operations. aria, bellagio and mgm grand las vegas in particular may be affected by economic conditions in the far east, and all of our nevada resorts are affected by economic conditions in the united states, and california in particular. a recession, economic slowdown or any other significant economic condition affecting consumers or corporations generally is likely to cause a reduction i n visitation to our resorts, which would adversely affect our operating results. for example, the prior recession and downturn in consumer and corporate spending had a negative impact on our results of operations. in addition, since we expect a significant number of customers to come to mgm macau and mgm cotai from mainland china, general economic and market conditions in china could impact our financial prospects. any slowdown in economic growth or changes to china's current restrictions on travel and currency conversion or movements, including market impacts resulting from china's recent anti-corruption campaign and related tightening of liquidity provided by non-bank lending entities and cross-border currency monitoring (including increased restrictions on union pay withdrawals and other atm limits on the withdrawal of patacas imposed by the government), could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland china and/or the amounts they are willing to spend in the casino. most recently, in july 2017, the chinese government, along with macau authorities, implemented new facial recognition technology on atm machines in macau to strictly enforce the know you r customer regulations for mainland chinese bank cardholders and in november 2017 new rules were adopted to control the cross-border transportation of cash and bearer negotiable instruments. it is unclear whether these and other measures will continue to be in effect, become more restrictive, or be readopted in the future. these developments have had, and any future policy developments that may be implemented may have, the effect of reducing the number of visitors to macau from mainland china, which could adversely impact tourism and the gaming industry in macau. furthermore, our operations in macau may be impacted by competition for limited labor resources. our success in macau will be impacted by our ability to retain and hire employees. we compete with a large number of casino resorts for a limited number of employees and we anticipate that such competition will grow in light of new developments in macau. while we seek employees from other countries to adequately staff our resorts, certain macau government policies limit our ability to import labor in certain job classifications (for instance, the macau government requires that we only hire macau residents as dealers in our casinos) and any future government policies that freeze or cancel our ability to import labor could cause labor costs to increase. finally, because additional casino projects have commenced operations and other projects are under construction, existing transportation infrastructure may need to be expanded to accommodate increased visitation to macau. if transportation facilities to and from macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting macau, the desirability of macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations at our development in cotai, macau, could be negatively impacted. we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our mgm 2020 plan. we have undertaken an initiative to reduce costs, improve efficiencies and further position us for growth. while we believe these initiatives will result in approximately $200 million of annual adjusted ebitda benefit by the end of 2020 and an additional $100 million by the end of 2021, our efforts may fail to achieve expected results. our mgm 2020 plan is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that may change at any time, and, therefore, our actual adjusted ebitda benefit may differ materially from what we anticipate. our ability to pay ongoing regular dividends to our stockholders is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and may be limited by our holding company structure, existing and future debt agreements entered into by us or our subsidiaries and state law requirements. we intend to pay ongoing regular quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. however, our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, change the amount or frequency of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. in addition, our ability to pay dividends is restricted by certain covenants in our credit agreement, and because we are a holding company with no material direct operations, we are dependent on receiving cash from our operating subsidiaries to generate the funds from operations necessary to pay dividends on our common stock. we expect our subsidiaries will continue to generate significant cash flow necessary to maintain quarterly dividend payments on our common stock; however, their ability to generate funds will be subject to their operating results, cash requirements and financial condition, any applicable provisions of state law that may limit the amount of funds available to us, and compliance with covenants and financial ratios related to existing or future agreements governing any indebtedness at such subsidiaries and any limitations in other agreements such subsidiaries may have with third parties. in addition, each of the companies in our corporate chain must manage its assets, liabilities and working capital in order to meet all of their respective cash obligations. as a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, future dividend payments may be reduced or eliminated. any change in the level of our dividends or the suspension of the payment thereof could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. a significant number of our domestic gaming facilities are leased and could experience risks associated with leased property, including risks relating to lease termination, lease extensions, charges and our relationship with the lessor, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. we lease eleven of our destination resorts and the park from a subsidiary of mgp pursuant to the master lease. the master lease has a term of ten 15 years with up to four additional five-year extensions, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions. the master lease is commonly known as a triple-net lease. accor dingly, in addition to rent, we are required to pay the following, among other things: (1) all facility maintenance, (2) all insurance required in connection with the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties, (3) taxes levied o n or with respect to the leased properties (other than taxes on the income of the lessor), (4) all capital expenditures, and (5) all utilities and other services necessary or appropriate for the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased pr operties. we are responsible for paying these expenses notwithstanding the fact that many of the benefits received in exchange for such costs shall accrue in part to mgp as owner of the associated facilities. in addition, if some of our leased facilities hould prove to be unprofitable or experience other issues that would warrant ceasing operations, or if we should otherwise decide to exit a particular property, we would remain obligated for lease payments and other obligations under the master lease even if we decided to cease operations at those locations unless we are able to transfer the rights with respect to a particular property in accordance with the requirements of the master lease. our ability to transfer our obligations under the master lease to a third-party with respect to individual properties, should we decide to withdraw from a particular location, is limited to non-las vegas properties and no more than two las vegas gaming properties, and is subject to identifying a willing third-party who m eets the requirements for a transferee set forth in the master lease. we may be unable to find an appropriate transferee willing to assume the obligations under the master lease with respect to any such property. in addition, we could incur special charges relating to the closing of such facilities including sublease termination costs, impairment charges and other special charges that would reduce our net income and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of ope rations. furthermore, our obligation to pay rent as well as the other costs described above is absolute in virtually all circumstances, regardless of the performance of the properties and other circumstances that might abate rent in leases that now place t hese risks on the tenant, such as certain events of casualty and condemnation. any financial, operational, regulatory or other potential challenges that may arise with respect to mgp, as our sole lessor for a significant portion of our properties, may adversely impair our operations . we lease a substantial number of the properties that we operate and manage, which represents a significant portion of our operations, from mgp under the master lease. if mgp has financial, operational, regulatory or other challenges, there can be no assurance that mgp will be able to comply with its obligations under the master lease or its other agreements with us. failure on the part of mgp to fulfill its commitments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. james j. murren, our chairman, daniel j. taylor, one of our directors, and william j. hornbuckle, and john m. mcmanus, members of our senior management, may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions at mgp . james j. murren serves as our chairman and as the chairman of mgp. in addition, daniel j. taylor, one of our directors, is also a director of mgp and william j. hornbuckle, and john m. mcmanus, members of our senior management, are also directors of mgp. while we have procedures in place to address such situations and the organizational documents with respect to mgp contain provisions that reduce or eliminate duties (including fiduciary duties) to any mgp shareholder to the fullest extent permitted by law, these overlapping positions could nonetheless create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when our or mgp's management and directors pursue the same corporate opportunities, such as potential acquisition targets, or face decisions that could have different implications for us and mgp. further, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and mgp (or its subsidiaries) regarding the terms of the agreements governing the separation and the relationship, between us and mgp, such as under the master lease. potential conflicts of interest could also arise if we and mgp enter into any commercial or other adverse arrangements with each other in the future. despite our ability to exercise control over the affairs of mgp as a result of our ownership of the single outstanding class b share of mgp, mgp has adopted a policy under which certain transactions with us, including transactions involving consideration in excess of $25 million, must be approved in accordance with certain specified procedures, which could affect our ability to execute our operational and strategic objectives. we own the single outstanding class b share of mgp. the class b share is a non-economic interest in mgp which does not provide its holder any rights to profits or losses or any rights to receive distributions from operations of mgp or upon liquidation or winding up of mgp, and which represents a majority of the voting power of mgp's shares so long as the holder of the class b share and its controlled affiliates' (excluding mgp) aggregate beneficial ownership of the combined economic interests in mgp and the operating partnership does not fall below 30%. we, therefore, have the ability to exercise significant control over mgp's affairs, including control over the outcome of all matters submitted to mgp's shareholders for approval. mgp's operating agreement, however, provides that whenever a potential conflict of interest exists or arises between us or any of our affiliates (other than mgp and its subsidiaries), on the one hand, and mgp or any of its subsidiaries, on the other hand, any resolution or course of action by mgp's board of directors in respect of such conflict of interest shall be conclusively deemed to be fair and reasonable to mgp if it is (i) approved by a majority of a conflicts committee which consists solely of independent directors (which mgp refers to as special approval ) (such independence determined in accordance with the nyse's listing standards, the standards established by the exchange act to serve on an audit committee of a board of directors and certain additional independence requirements in our operating agreement), (ii) determined by mgp's board of directors to be fair and reasonable to mgp or (iii) approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of mgp's outstanding voting shares (excluding voting shares owned by us and our affiliates). furthermore, mgp's operating agreement provides that any transaction with a value, individually or in 16 the aggregate, over $25 million between us or any of our affiliates (other than mgp and its subsidiaries), on the one hand, and mgp or any of its subsidiaries, on the other hand (any such tra nsaction (other than the exercise of rights by us or any of our affiliates (other than mgp and its subsidiaries) under any of the material agreements entered into on the closing day of mgp's formation transactions), a threshold transaction ), shall be per mitted only if (i) special approval is obtained or (ii) such transaction is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of mgp's outstanding voting shares (excluding voting shares owned by us and our affiliate s). as a result, certain transactions, including any threshold transactions that we may want to pursue with mgp and that could have significant benefit to us may require special approval. there can be no assurance that the required approval will be obtained with respect to these transactions either from a conflicts committee comprised of independent mgp directors or the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares not held by us and our affiliates. the failure to obtain such requisite consent could materially affect our ability and the cost to execute our operational and strategic objectives. we have agreed not to have any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in china, macau, hong kong and taiwan, other than through mgm china . in connection with the initial public offering of mgm china, the holding company that indirectly owns and operates mgm macau, we entered into a deed of non-compete undertakings with mgm china and ms. ho, pansy catilina chiu king ( ms. ho ) pursuant to which we are restricted from having any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in the people's republic of china, macau, hong kong and taiwan, other than through mgm china. while gaming is currently prohibited in china, hong kong and taiwan, if it is legalized in the future our ability to compete in these locations could be limited until the earliest of (i) march 31, 2020, (ii) the date mgm china's ordinary shares cease to be listed on the stock exchange of hong kong limited or (iii) the date when our ownership of mgm china shares is less than 20% of the then-issued share capital of mgm china. the macau government can terminate mgm grand paradise's subconcession under certain circumstances without compensating mgm grand paradise , exercise its redemption right with respect to the subconcession, or refuse to grant mgm grand paradise an extension of the subconcession in 2020 , any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business , financial condition , results of operations and cash flows . the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the subconcession in the event of fundamental non-compliance by mgm grand paradise with applicable macau laws or mgm grand paradise's basic obligations under the subconcession contract. mgm grand paradise has the opportunity to remedy any such non-compliance with its fundamental obligations under the subconcession contract within a period to be stipulated by the macau government. upon such termination, all of mgm grand paradise's casino area premises and gaming-related equipment would be transferred automatically to the macau government without compensation to mgm grand paradise, and we would cease to generate any revenues from these operations. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will perform all of its obligations under the subconcession contract in a way that satisfies the requirements of the macau government. furthermore, under the subconcession contract, mgm grand paradise is obligated to comply with any laws and regulations that the macau government might promulgate in the future. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will be able to comply with these laws and regulations or that these laws and regulations would not adversely affect our ability to construct or operate our macau businesses. if any disagreement arises between mgm grand paradise and the macau government regarding the interpretation of, or mgm grand paradise's compliance with, a provision of the subconcession contract, mgm grand paradise will be relying on a consultation and negotiation process with the macau government. during any consultation or negotiation, mgm grand paradise will be obligated to comply with the terms of the subconcession contract as interpreted by the macau government. currently, there is no precedent concerning how the macau government will treat the termination of a concession or subconcession upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances mentioned above. the loss of the subconcession would require us to cease conducting gaming operations in macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the subconcession contract expires on march 31, 2020. unless the subconcession is extended, or legislation with regard to reversion of casino premises is amended, all of mgm grand paradise's casino premises and gaming-related equipment will automatically be transferred to the macau government on that date without compensation to us, and we will cease to generate any revenues from such gaming operations. beginning on april 20, 2017, the macau government may redeem the subconcession contract by providing us at least one year's prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, mgm grand paradise is entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of gaming and non-gaming revenue generated by mgm grand paradise, excluding the convention and exhibition facilities, during the taxable year prior to the redemption, before deducting interest, depreciation and amortization, multiplied by the number of remaining years before expiration of the subconcession. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will be able to renew or extend the subconcession contract on terms favorable to mgm grand paradise or at all. we also cannot assure you that if the subconcession is redeemed, the compensation paid to mgm grand paradise will be adequate to compensate for the loss of future revenues. 17 mgm grand paradise is dependent upon gaming promoters for a significant portion of gaming revenues in macau . gaming promoters, who promote gaming and draw high-end customers to casinos, are responsible for a significant portion of mgm grand paradise's gaming revenues in maca u. with the rise in gaming in macau and the recent reduction in the number of licensed gaming promoters in macau and in the number of vip rooms operated by licensed gaming promoters, the competition for relationships with gaming promoters has increased. wh ile mgm grand paradise is undertaking initiatives to strengthen relationships with gaming promoters, there can be no assurance that it will be able to maintain, or grow, relationships with gaming promoters. in addition, continued reductions in, and new reg ulations governing, the gaming promoter segment may result in the closure of additional vip rooms in macau, including vip rooms at mgm macau and mgm cotai. if mgm grand paradise is unable to maintain or grow relationships with gaming promoters, or if gamin g promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our high-end customers (or if, as a result of recent market conditions in macau, gaming promoters encounter difficulties attracting patrons to come to macau or experience decreased liquidity limiting their ability to grant credit to patrons), mgm grand paradise's ability to grow gaming revenues will be hampered. furthermore, if existing vip rooms at mgm macau and mgm cotai are closed there can be no assurance that mgm grand paradise will be ab le to locate acceptable gaming promoters to run such vip rooms in the future in a timely manner, or at all. in addition, the quality of gaming promoters is important to mgm grand paradise's and our reputation and ability to continue to operate in compliance with gaming licenses. while mgm grand paradise strives for excellence in associations with gaming promoters, we cannot assure you that the gaming promoters with whom mgm grand paradise is or becomes associated will meet the high standards insisted upon. if a gaming promoter falls below mgm grand paradise's standards, mgm grand paradise or we may suffer reputational harm or possibly sanctions from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. we also grant credit lines to certain gaming promoters and any adverse change in the financial performance of those gaming promoters may impact the recoverability of these loans. we are subject to taxation by various governments and agencies and the rate of taxation in the jurisdictions in which we operate could change in the future. we are subject to tax by various governments and agencies, both in the u.s. and in macau. changes in the rates of taxation, the amount of taxes we owe and the time when income is subject to taxation, the macau income tax exemption or the imposition of foreign withholding taxes could increase our overall rate of taxation. any of these changes could materially impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the future recognition of our foreign tax credit deferred tax asset is uncertain, and the amount of valuation allowance we may apply against such deferred tax asset may change materially in future periods. we currently have significant deferred tax assets resulting from foreign tax credit carryforwards that are available to reduce potential taxable foreign-sourced income in future periods, including the recapture of overall domestic losses to the extent of u.s. taxable income. we evaluate our foreign tax credit deferred tax asset for recoverability and record a valuation allowance to the extent that we determine it is not more likely than not such asset will be recovered. this evaluation is based on all available evidence, including assumptions concerning future u.s. operating profits and our interpretations of the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) based upon guidance issued to date. as a result, significant judgment is required in assessing the possible need for a valuation allowance and changes to our assumptions could result in a material change in the valuation allowance with a corresponding impact on the provision for income taxes in the period including such change. extreme weather conditions or climate change may cause property damage or interrupt business, which could harm our business and results of operations . certain of our casino properties are located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes in the united states and severe typhoons in macau. such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. in addition, our operations could be adversely impacted by a drought or other cause of water shortage. a severe drought of extensive duration experienced in las vegas or in the other regions in which we operate could adversely affect our business and results of operations. although we maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such extreme weather conditions. furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. because a significant number of our major gaming resorts are concentrated on the las vegas strip, we are subject to greater risks than a gaming company that is more geographically diversified . given that a significant number of our major resorts are concentrated on the las vegas strip, our business may be significantly affected by risks common to the las vegas tourism industry. for example, the cost and availability of air services and the impact of any events that disrupt air 18 travel to and from las vegas can adversely affect our business. we cannot control the number or frequency of flights to or from las vegas, but we rely on air traffic for a significant portion of our visitors. reductions in flights by major airlines as a result of higher fuel prices or lower demand can impact the number of visitors to our resorts. additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between las vega and southern california, where a large number of our customers reside. capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may also affect the number of customers who visit our facilities. we extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables . we conduct a portion of our gaming activities on a credit basis through the issuance of markers which are unsecured instruments. table games players typically are issued more markers than slot players, and high-end players typically are issued more markers than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. high-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. furthermore, the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these high-end customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we issue markers to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit. in addition, mgm grand paradise extends credit to certain gaming promoters and those promoters can extend credit to their customers. uncollectible receivables from high-end customers and gaming promoters could have a significant impact on our results of operations. while gaming debts evidenced by markers and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the full faith and credit clause of the u.s. constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the u.s. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from united states courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. furthermore, we expect that mgm china will be able to enforce its gaming debts only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent mgm china gaming customers and gaming promoters are from other jurisdictions, mgm china may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and mgm china may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. moreover, under applicable law, mgm china remains obligated to pay taxes on uncollectible winnings from customers. even where gaming debts are enforceable, they may not be collectible. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. we may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets which could negatively affect our future profits . we review our goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets on an annual basis and during interim reporting periods in accordance with the authoritative guidance. significant negative trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates or lack of growth have resulted in write-downs and impairment charges in the past and, if one or more of such events occurs in the future, additional impairment charges or write-downs may be required in future periods. if we are required to record additional impairment charges or write-downs, this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations. leisure and business travel , especially travel by air , are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events , such as terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or acts of war or hostility . we are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel by air. since most of our customers travel by air to our las vegas and macau properties, any terrorist act or other acts of violence, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war, or any actual or perceived threat to the security of travel by air could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. furthermore, although we have been able to purchase some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism continues to be unavailable. co-investing in our properties, including our investment in citycenter, decreases our ability to manage risk . in addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement our business directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, as a co-investor. co-investors often have shared control over the operation of the property. therefore, the operation of such properties is subject to inherent risk due to the shared nature of the enterprise and the need to reach agreements on material matters. in addition, investments with other investors may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-investor might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. consequently, actions by a co-investor might subject hotels and resorts owned by such entities to additional risk. further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our co-investors. alternatively, our co-investors could take actions 19 binding on the property without our consent. additionally, should a co-investor become bankrupt, we could become liable for its share of liabil ities. for instance, citycenter, which is 50% owned and managed by us, has a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect its business and its ability to meet its obligations. if citycenter is unable to meet its financial commitments and we and our co-investor are unable to support future funding requirements, as necessary, such event could have adverse financial consequences to us. in addition, the agreements governing citycenter's indebtedness subject citycenter and its subsidiaries to significant financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on its ability to incur additional indebtedness, place liens upon assets, make distributions to us, make certain investments, consummate certain asset sales, enter into transactions with affiliates (including us) and merge or consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets. the citycenter credit facility also includes certain financial covenants that require citycenter to maintain a maximum total net leverage ratio (as defined in citycenter's credit facility) for each quarter. we cannot be sure that citycenter will be able to meet this test in the future or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet the test. any of our future construction, development or expansion projects will be subject to significant development and construction risks, which could have a material adverse impact on related project timetables, costs and our ability to complete the projects . any of our future construction, development or expansion projects will be subject to a number of risks, including: lack of sufficient, or delays in the availability of, financing; changes to plans and specifications; engineering problems, including defective plans and specifications; shortages of, and price increases in, energy, materials and skilled and unskilled labor, and inflation in key supply markets; delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals; changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, residential, real estate development or construction projects; labor disputes or work stoppages; availability of qualified contractors and subcontractors; disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors; personal injuries to workers and other persons; environmental, health and safety issues, including site accidents and the spread of viruses; weather interferences or delays; fires, typhoons and other natural disasters; geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems; and other unanticipated circumstances or cost increases. the occurrence of any of these development and construction risks could increase the total costs, delay or prevent the construction, development, expansion or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of any future projects which we might undertake. in addition, the regulatory approvals associated with our development projects may require us to open future casino resorts by a certain specified time and to the extent we are unable to meet those deadlines, and any such deadlines are not extended, we may lose our regulatory approval to open a casino resort in a proposed jurisdiction, or incur payment penalties in connection with any delays which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we also make significant capital expenditures to maintain and upgrade our resorts, which may disrupt operations and displace revenue at the properties, including revenue lost while rooms, restaurants and meeting spaces are under renovation and out of service. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. in addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future . although we have all risk property insurance coverage for our operating properties, which covers damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war, or terrorism or other acts of violence), each policy has certain exclusions. in addition, our property insurance coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the facilities if there was a total loss. our level of insurance coverage also may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. in addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, acts of war, loss of income due to cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism or other acts of violence, loss of electrical power due to catastrophic events, rolling blackouts or otherwise, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal 20 damage, and pollution, may not be covered at all under our policies. therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured losses. in addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties that may be injured or harmed. while we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in any such event. we renew our insurance policies (other than our builder's risk insurance) on an annual basis. the cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits, further increase our deductibles, or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business . the development of intellectual property is part of our overall business strategy, and we regard our intellectual property to be an important element of our success. while our business as a whole is not substantially dependent on any one trademark or combination of several of our trademarks or other intellectual property, we seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our business operations through the use of trademarks. we file applications for, and obtain trademarks in, the united states and in foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, parties may infringe our trademarks and our rights may be invalidated or unenforceable. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the united states. monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resource. we cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the united states and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. the unauthorized use or reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. we are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the united states . our operations outside of the united states are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business under non-united states laws, regulations and customs. in particular, the risks associated with the operation of mgm china or any future operations in which we may engage in any other foreign territories, include: changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies in macau or other foreign jurisdictions; changes in non-united states government programs; possible failure by our employees or agents to comply with anti-bribery laws such as the united states foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions; general economic conditions and policies in china, including restrictions on travel and currency movements; difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non-united states operations; different labor regulations; changes in environmental, health and safety laws; outbreaks of diseases or epidemics; potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; political instability and actual or anticipated military and political conflicts; economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations; and uncertainties regarding judicial systems and procedures. these risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are also exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. if the united states dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other countries, our united states dollar reported income from sources where revenue is denominated in the currencies of other such countries will decrease. any violation of the foreign corrupt practices act or any other similar anti-corruption laws could have a negative impact on us . a significant portion of our revenue is derived from operations outside the united states, which exposes us to complex foreign and u.s. regulations inherent in doing cross-border business and in each of the countries in which we transact business. we are subject to compliance with the united states foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) and other similar anti-corruption laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. while our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. violations of these laws by us or our non-controlled ventures may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties against us, and the sec and u.s. department of justice continue to vigorously pursue enforcement of the fcpa. the occurrence or allegation 21 of t hese types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. we face risks related to pending claims that have been , or future claims that may be , brought against us . claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries in various legal proceedings, and additional legal and tax claims arise from time to time. we may not be successful in the defense or prosecution of our current or future legal proceedings, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. please see the further discussion in legal proceedings and note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. a significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements. work stoppages and other labor problems could negatively affect our business and results of operations. as of december 31, 2018, approximately 39,000 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. in january 2019, we acquired operations in new york that employ approximately 1,000 employees, a portion of which are covered by collective bargaining agreements. we anticipate several of these agreements will be negotiated in 2019. also, in july 2018, mgp acquired its property in northfield, ohio, which continues to be operated (on behalf of mgp) by an affiliate of hard rock international (stp), inc. mgm expects to acquire these operations in the first half of 2019, subject to certain customary closing conditions. the ohio operation has employees covered by collective bargaining agreements, several of which we anticipate will be negotiated in 2019. a prolonged dispute with the covered employees or any labor unrest, strikes or other business interruptions in connection with labor negotiations or others could have an adverse impact on our operations. further, adverse publicity in the marketplace related to union messaging could further harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. also, wage and/or benefit increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations. to the extent that our non-union employees join unions, we would have greater exposure to risks associated with labor problems. furthermore, we may have, or acquire in the future, multi-employer plans that are classified as endangered, seriously endangered, or critical status. for instance, borgata's most significant plan is the legacy plan of the national retirement fund (which spun-off into a newly established fund as of january 1, 2018), which has been listed in critical status and is subject to a rehabilitation plan. plans in these classifications must adopt measures to improve their funded status through a funding improvement or rehabilitation plan, which may require additional contributions from employers (which may take the form of a surcharge on benefit contributions) and/or modifications to retiree benefits. in addition, while borgata has no current intention to withdraw from these plans, a withdrawal in the future could result in the incurrence of a contingent liability that would be payable in an amount and at such time (or over a period of time) that would vary based on a number of factors at the time of (and after) withdrawal. any such additional costs may be significant. our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results . we are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. accordingly, increases in energy costs may have a negative impact on our operating results. additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices that affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues. the failure to maintain the integrity of our computer systems and customer information could result in damage to our reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits and restrictions on our use of data. we collect and process information relating to our employees, guests, and others for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. the collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted by the various states, the united states and other jurisdictions around the world. privacy laws and regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent between jurisdictions. various federal, state and foreign legislative or regulatory bodies may enact or adopt new or additional laws and regulations concerning privacy, data retention, data transfer, and data protection. for example, the european union has adopted a data protection regulation known as the general data protection regulation, which became fully enforceable in may 2018, that includes operational and compliance requirements with significant penalties for non-compliance. in addition, california has enacted a new privacy law, known as the california consumer privacy act of 2018, which takes effect in 2020 and provides some of the strongest privacy requirements in the united states. compliance with applicable privacy laws and regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. in addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy laws and regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us), including accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, unapproved dissemination or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in damage to our reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. we rely on proprietary and commercially available systems, software, and tools to provide security for processing of customer and employee information, such as payment card and other confidential or proprietary information. our data security measures are reviewed and evaluated regularly; however, they might not protect us against increasingly sophisticated and aggressive threats including, but not limited to, computer malware, viruses, hacking and phishing attacks by third parties. in addition, while we maintain cyber risk insurance to assist in the cost of recovery from a significant cyber event, such coverage may not be sufficient . 22 we also rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, maintai n information and manage our businesses. disruptions in the availability of our computer systems, through cyber-attacks or otherwise, could impact our ability to service our customers and adversely affect our sales and the results of operations. for instan ce, there has been an increase in criminal cyber security attacks against companies where customer and company information has been compromised and company data has been destroyed. our information systems and data, including those we maintain with our thir d-party service providers, may be subject to cyber security breaches in the future. in addition, our third-party information system service providers face risks relating to cyber security similar to ours, and we do not directly control any of such parties' information security operations. a significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer or company data maintained by us or by a third-party service provider could have an adverse effect on our reputation, cause a material disruption to our operations, a nd result in remediation expenses, regulatory penalties and litigation by customers and other parties whose information was subject to such attacks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to risks related to corporate social responsibility and reputation. many factors influence our reputation and the value of our brands including the perception held by our customers, business partners, other key stakeholders and the communities in which we do business. our business faces increasing scrutiny related to environmental, social and governance activities and risk of damage to our reputation and the value of our brands if we fail to act responsibly in a number of areas, such as diversity and inclusion, environmental stewardship, supply chain management, climate change, workplace conduct, human rights, philanthropy and support for local communities. any harm to our reputation could impact employee engagement and retention and the willingness of customers and our partners to do business with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. we may seek to expand through investments in other businesses and properties or through alliances or acquisitions, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets, any of which may be unsuccessful . we intend to consider strategic and complementary acquisitions and investments in other businesses, properties or other assets. furthermore, we may pursue any of these opportunities in alliance with third parties, including mgp. acquisitions and investments in businesses, properties or assets, as well as these alliances, are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: spending cash and incurring debt; assuming contingent liabilities; unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; unanticipated incompatibility of purchasing, logistics, marketing and administration methods; retaining key employees; and consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that we will actually realize any anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, investments or alliances. in addition, even if we are able to successfully integrate new assets and businesses, the integration of such assets and businesses may result in unanticipated costs, competitive responses, loss or customer or other business relationships and the diversion of management attention. in addition, we periodically review our business to identify properties or other assets that we believe either are non-core, no longer complement our business, are in markets which may not benefit us as much as other markets or could be sold at significant premiums. from time to time, we may attempt to sell these identified properties and assets. there can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to complete dispositions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. if the jurisdictions in which we operate increase gaming taxes and fees , our results could be adversely affected . state and local authorities raise a significant amount of revenue through taxes and fees on gaming activities. from time to time, legislators and government officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. periods of economic downturn or uncertainty and budget deficits may intensify such efforts to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. if the jurisdictions in which we operate were to increase gaming taxes or fees, depending on the magnitude of the increase and any offsetting factors, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. for instance, income generated from gaming operations of mgm grand paradise currently has the benefit of a corporate tax exemption in macau, which exempts us from paying the 12% complementary tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games. this exemption is effective through march 31, 2020, which also runs concurrent with the end of the term of the current gaming subconcession. due to the uncertainty concerning taxation after the subconcession renewal process, we cannot assure you that any extensions of the tax exemption will be granted beyond march 31, 2020. 23 conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of mgm china , the holding company for mgm grand paradise which owns and operates mgm macau and mgm cotai . as a result of the initial public offering of shares of mgm china common stock in 2011, mgm china has stockholders who are not affiliated with us, and we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of mgm china may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of mgm china. decisions that could have different implications f or us and mgm china, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with mgm china, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest or an actual conflict of interest. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk in addition to the inherent risks associated with our normal operations, we are also exposed to additional market risks. market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. our primary exposure to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our variable rate long-term debt. we attempt to limit our exposure to interest rate risk by managing the mix of our long-term fixed rate borrowings and short-term borrowings under our bank credit facilities and by utilizing interest rate swap agreements that provide for a fixed interest payment on the operating partnership's term loan b facility. a change in interest rates generally does not have an impact upon our future earnings and cash flow for fixed-rate debt instruments. as fixed-rate debt matures, however, and if additional debt is acquired to fund the debt repayment, future earnings and cash flow may be affected by changes in interest rates. this effect would be realized in the periods subsequent to the periods when the debt matures. we do not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes and do not enter into derivative transactions that would be considered speculative positions. as of december 31, 2018, variable rate borrowings represented approximately 31% of our total borrowings after giving effect to the $500 million and $700 million notional amount operating partnership interest rate swaps with weighted average fixed rates that we pay 1.764% and 1.901%, respectively. in december 2018, the operating partnership entered into additional interest rate swap agreements, for which the operating partnership will pay a weighted average 2.735% on a total notional amount of $400 million. these swaps will be effective december 31, 2019, at which point the operating partnership will be paying a combined weighted average 2.066%. the following table provides additional information about our gross long-term debt subject to changes in interest rates excluding the effect of the operating partnership interest rate swaps discussed above: fair value debt maturing in, december 31, 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter total 2018 (in millions) fixed-rate $ 850 $ 1,500 $ 1,250 $ 1,000 $ 1,250 $ 3,401 $ 9,251 $ 9,179 average interest rate 8.6 % 6.3 % 6.6 % 7.8 % 6.0 % 5.2 % 6.3 % variable rate $ 423 $ 466 $ 466 $ 1,306 $ 1,635 $ 1,706 $ 6,002 $ 5,893 average interest rate 4.7 % 4.7 % 4.7 % 4.7 % 4.6 % 4.5 % 4.6 % in addition to the risk associated with our variable interest rate debt, we are also exposed to risks related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, mainly related to mgm china and to our operations at mgm macau and mgm cotai. while recent fluctuations in exchange rates have not been significant, potential changes in policy by governments or fluctuations in the economies of the united states, china, macau or hong kong could cause variability in these exchange rates. we cannot assure you that the hong kong dollar will continue to be pegged to the u.s. dollar or the current peg rate for the hong kong dollar will remain at the same level. the possible changes to the peg of the hong kong dollar may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate thereof. as of december 31, 2018, a 1% increase in the hong kong dollar (the functional currency of mgm china) to the u.s. dollar exchange rate would impact the carrying value of our cash balance by $5 million and a 1% decrease in the exchange rate would impact the carrying value of our debt balance by $25 million. 51risk factors 12 risk factors you should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the sec could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below. risks relating to our substantial indebtedness our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments, including the fixed component of our rent payments, and our debt guarantees could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations . as of december 31, 2019, we had approximately $11.3 billion of principal amount of indebtedness outstanding on a consolidated basis. the operating partnership and mgm china, our consolidated subsidiaries, had $4.4 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, of indebtedness outstanding. any increase in the interest rates applicable to our existing or future borrowings would increase the cost of our indebtedness and reduce the cash flow available to fund our other liquidity needs. we do not guarantee mgm china's or the operating partnership's obligations under their respective debt agreements and, to the extent mgm china or the operating partnership were to cease to produce cash flow sufficient to service their indebtedness, our ability to make additional investments into such entities is limited by the covenants in our existing senior credit facility. in addition, our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could have important negative consequences on us, including: increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy (including returning value to our shareholders) or other general operating requirements making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness or placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less-leveraged competitors. moreover, our businesses are capital intensive. for our owned, leased and managed resorts to remain attractive and competitive, we must periodically invest significant capital to keep the properties well-maintained, modernized and refurbished. moreover, our leases with mgp, the bellagio breit venture, and the mgp breit venture have fixed rental payments (with annual escalators) and also require us to apply a percentage of net revenues generated at the leased properties to capital expenditures at those properties. such investments require an ongoing supply of cash and, to the extent that we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. similarly, development projects, including any potential future development of an integrated resort in japan, and acquisitions could require significant capital commitments, the incurrence of additional debt, guarantees of third-party debt or the incurrence of contingent liabilities, any or all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our senior credit facility calculates interest on outstanding balances using the london inter-bank offered rate ( libor ). on july 27, 2017, the united kingdom financial conduct authority (the "fca") announced it would phase out libor as a benchmark by the end of 2021. although our senior credit facility includes libor replacement provisions that contemplate an alternate benchmark rate to be mutually agreed upon by us and the administrative agent, if necessary, any such changes may result in interest obligations which are more than or do not otherwise correlate over time with the payments that would have been made if libor was available in its current form. as a result, there can be no assurance that discontinuation of libor will not result in significant increases in benchmark interest rates, substantially higher financing costs or a shortage of available debt financing, any of which could have an adverse effect on us. current and future economic, capital and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service or refinance our indebtedness and to make planned expenditures . our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness, make our rent payments under our leases and to fund planned or committed capital expenditures and other investments depends on our ability to generate cash flow, receive distributions from our unconsolidated affiliates (including citycenter) and subsidiaries (including mgm china and the operating partnership), borrow under our senior credit facility or incur new indebtedness. if regional and national economic conditions deteriorate, revenues from our operations could decline as consumer spending levels decrease and we could fail to generate cash sufficient to fund our liquidity needs or satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt and lease instruments. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or continue to receive distributions from our unconsolidated affiliates and subsidiaries, nor can we assure you that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs or that we will be able to access the capital markets in the future to borrow additional indebtedness on terms that are favorable to us. 12 we have a significant amount of indebtedness maturing in 202 2 , and thereafter. our ability to timely refinance and replace our indebtedness in the future will depend upon the economic and credit market conditions discussed above. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on a timely basis, we might be forced to seek alternate forms of financing, dispose of certain assets or minimize capital expenditures and other investments. there is no assurance that any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms, on terms that would not be disadvantageous to us, or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements or leases . the agreements governing our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity, and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations . covenants governing our senior credit facility and certain of our debt securities restrict, among other things, our ability to: pay dividends or distributions, repurchase equity, prepay certain debt or make certain investments incur additional debt incur liens on assets sell assets or consolidate with another company or sell all or substantially all of our assets enter into transactions with affiliates allow certain subsidiaries to transfer assets or enter into certain agreements and enter into sale and lease-back transactions. our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. the breach of any such covenants or obligations not otherwise waived or cured could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. in addition, our senior secured credit facility requires us to satisfy certain financial covenants, including a maximum total net leverage ratio, a maximum first lien net leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. any default under our senior credit facility or the indentures governing our other debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt. in addition, each of mgm china and the operating partnership has issued debt securities and is a borrower under credit facilities, all of which contain covenants that restrict the respective borrower's ability to engage in certain transactions, require them to satisfy certain financial covenants and impose certain operating and financial restrictions on them and their respective subsidiaries. these restrictions include, among other things, limitations on their ability to pay dividends or distributions to us, incur additional debt, make investments or engage in other businesses, merge or consolidate with other companies, or transfer or sell assets. we are required to pay a significant portion of our cash flows as rent, which could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations and growth, service our indebtedness and limit our ability to react to competitive and economic changes . as of december 31, 2019 we are required to make annual rent payments of $946 million under the master lease with mgp and annual rent payments of $245 million under the lease with bellagio breit venture, and will be required to make annual rent payments of $292 million under the lease with mgp breit venture, which leases are also subject to annual escalators as described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. the leases also require us to spend a certain amount on capital expenditures at the leased properties. as a result of the foregoing rent and capital expenditure obligations, our ability to fund our operations, raise capital, make acquisitions, make investments, service our debt and otherwise respond to competitive and economic changes may be adversely affected. for example, our obligations under the leases may: make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and to obtain additional indebtedness increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to making rent payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, pay dividends, repurchase shares and other general corporate purposes limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate restrict our ability to make acquisitions, divestitures and engage in other significant transactions and cause us to lose our rights with respect to the applicable leased properties if we fail to pay rent or other amounts or otherwise default on the leases. any of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 the company provides a guarantee of the indebtedness of the bellagio breit venture and mgp breit venture. we currently provide a shortfall guarantee of the $3.01 billion and $3.0 billion principal amount of indebtedness (and any interest accrued and unpaid thereon) of the bellagio breit venture and mgp breit venture, respectively. the terms of each guarantee provide that, after the lenders have exhausted certain remedies to collect on the obligations under the underlying indebtedness, we would then be responsible for any shortfall between the value of the collateral and the debt obligation, which amount may be material, and we may not have sufficient cash on hand to fund any such obligation to the extent it is triggered in the future. if we do not have sufficient cash on hand, we may need to raise capital, including incurring additional indebtedness, in order to satisfy our obligation. there can be no assurance that any financing will be available to us, or, if available, will be on terms that are satisfactory to us. risks related to our business we face significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete, and failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow . the hotel, resort, entertainment, and casino industries are highly competitive. we do not believe that our competition is limited to a particular geographic area, and hotel, resort, entertainment, and gaming operations in other states or countries could attract our customers. to the extent that new casinos enter our markets or hotel room capacity is expanded by others in major destination locations, competition will increase. major competitors, including potential new entrants, may also expand their hotel room capacity, expand their range of amenities, improve their level of service, or construct new resorts in las vegas, macau or in the domestic regional markets in which we operate, all of which could attract our customers. also, the growth of gaming in areas outside las vegas, including california, has increased the competition faced by our operations in las vegas and elsewhere. while we believe our principal competitors are major gaming and hospitality resorts with well-established and recognized brands, we also compete against smaller hotel offerings and peer-to-peer inventory sources, which allow travelers to book short-term rentals of homes and apartments from owners. we expect that we will continue to face increased competition from new channels of distribution, innovations in consumer-facing technology platforms and other transformations in the travel industry that could impact our ability to attract and retain customers and related business. in addition, competition could increase if changes in gaming restrictions in the united states and elsewhere result in the addition of new gaming establishments located closer to our customers than our casinos. for example, while our macau operations compete to some extent with casinos located elsewhere in or near asia, certain countries in the region have legalized casino gaming (including japan) and others (such as taiwan and thailand) may legalize casino gaming (or online gaming) in the future. furthermore, currently mgm grand paradise holds one of only six gaming concessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or if current concessionaires and subconcessionaires open additional facilities, we would face increased competition. most jurisdictions where casino gaming is currently permitted place numerical and/or geographical limitations on the issuance of new gaming licenses. although a number of jurisdictions in the united states and foreign countries are considering legalizing or expanding casino gaming, in some cases new gaming operations may be restricted to specific locations and we expect that there will be intense competition for any attractive new opportunities (which may include acquisitions of existing properties) that do arise. furthermore, certain jurisdictions, including nevada and new jersey, have also legalized forms of online gaming and other jurisdictions, including illinois, have legalized video gaming terminals. additionally, in may 2018, the united states supreme court overturned a federal ban on sports betting that had prohibited single-game gambling in most states, raising the potential for increased competition in sports betting should additional states pass legislation to legalize it. the expansion of online gaming, sports betting, and other types of gaming in these and other jurisdictions may further compete with our operations by reducing customer visitation and spend in our casino resorts. in addition to competition with other hotels, resorts and casinos, we compete with destination travel locations outside of the markets in which we operate. our failure to compete successfully in our various markets and to continue to attract customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 14 our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations . our ownership and operation of gaming facilities is subject to extensive regulation by the countries, states and provinces in which we operate. these laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. as such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators or, alternatively, cease operations in that jurisdiction. in addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates or subsidiaries in any jurisdiction could have a negative effect on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. the regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. for example, in 2018, the u.s. department of justice ( doj ) reversed its previously-issued opinion published in 2011, which stated that interstate transmissions of wire communications that do not relate to a sporting event or contest fall outside the purview of the wire act of 1961 ( wire act ). the doj's updated opinion concluded instead that the wire act was not uniformly limited to gaming relating to sporting events or contests and that certain of its provisions apply to non-sports-related wagering activity. in june 2019, a federal district court in new hampshire ruled that the doj's new interpretation of the wire act was erroneous and vacated doj's new opinion. doj has appealed the decision of the district court to the u.s. court of appeals for the first circuit. an adverse ruling in the court of appeals or other disposition of the case may impact our ability to engage in online internet gaming in the future. for a summary of gaming and other regulations that affect our business, see regulation and licensing and exhibit 99. 1 to this annual report on form 10-k . further, our directors, officers, key employees and investors in our properties must meet approval standards of certain state and foreign regulatory authorities. if state regulatory authorities were to find such a person or investor unsuitable, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person or the investor may be required to dispose of his, her or its interest in the property. state regulatory agencies may conduct investigations into the conduct or associations of our directors, officers, key employees or investors to ensure compliance with applicable standards. certain public and private issuances of securities, borrowings under credit agreements, guarantees of indebtedness and other transactions also require the approval of certain regulatory authorities. macau laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming concessions are complex, and a court or administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue new or modified regulations, that differ from mgm china's interpretation, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, mgm china's activities in macau are subject to administrative review and approval by various government agencies. we cannot assure you that mgm china will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, and any such failure to do so may materially affect its long-term business strategy and operations. macau laws permit redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions however, to date such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming issues. in addition to gaming regulations, we are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. these laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, smoking, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. for instance, we are subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances, including the clean air act, the clean water act, the resource conservation recovery act, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act and the oil pollution act of 1990. under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or wastes located on its property, regardless of whether or not the present owner or operator knows of, or is responsible for, the presence of such substances or wastes. such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. for example, illinois has enacted a ban on smoking in nearly all public places, including bars, restaurants, work places, schools and casinos. in addition, effective january 1, 2019, smoking in casinos in macau, including mgm macau and mgm cotai, will only be permitted inside specially ventilated smoking rooms, rather than outside smoking areas or vip areas. the likelihood or outcome of similar legislation in other jurisdictions and referendums in the future cannot be predicted, though any smoking ban would be expected to negatively impact our financial performance. we also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to recordkeeping and reporting obligations as required by various anti-money laundering laws and regulations. for instance, we are subject to regulation under the currency and foreign transactions reporting act of 1970, commonly known as the bank secrecy act, which, among other things, requires us to report to the internal revenue service ( irs ) any currency transactions in excess of $10,000 that occur within a 24-hour gaming day, including identification of the individual(s) involved in the currency transaction. we are also required to report certain suspicious activity where we know, suspect or have reason to suspect transactions, among other things, involve funds from illegal activity or are intended to evade federal regulations or avoid reporting requirements or have no business or lawful purpose. in addition, under the bank secrecy act we are subject to various other rules and regulations involving reporting, recordkeeping and retention. our compliance with the bank secrecy act is subject to periodic examinations by the irs. any such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. any violations of the anti-money laundering laws, including the bank secrecy act, or regulations by any of our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 15 our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the jurisdictions in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside . our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending and corporate spending on conventions, trade shows and business development. economic contraction, economic uncertainty or the perception by our customers of weak or weakening economic conditions may cause a decline in demand for hotels, casino resorts, trade shows and conventions, and for the type of luxury amenities we offer. in addition, changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as the increased cost of travel, an unstable job market, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, outbreaks of contagious diseases or fears of war and acts of terrorism or other acts of violence. consumer preferences also evolve over time due to a variety of factors, including demographic changes, which, for instance, have resulted in recent growth in consumer demand for non-gaming offerings. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the preferences of consumers and timely react to these trends, and any failure to do so may negatively impact our results of operations. in particular, aria, bellagio and mgm grand las vegas may be affected by economic conditions in the far east, and all of our nevada resorts are affected by economic conditions in the united states, and california in particular. a recession, economic slowdown or any other significant economic condition affecting consumers or corporations generally is likely to cause a reduction in visitation to our resorts, which would adversely affect our operating results. for example, in december 2019 a new strain of coronavirus (covid-19) was reported in wuhan, china. in order to mitigate the spread of the virus, china has placed certain cities under quarantine and advised its citizens to avoid all non-essential travel and other countries, including the u.s., have also restricted inbound travel from china. in addition, china implemented a temporary suspension of its visa scheme that permits mainland chinese to travel to macau, and on february 4, 2020 the hong kong sar government temporarily suspended all ferry service from hong kong to macau until further notice. the government of macau also asked that all gaming operators in macau suspend casino operations for a 15-day period that commenced on february 5, 2020. as a result, mgm macau and mgm cotai suspended all operations at their properties other than operations that were necessary to provide sufficient non-gaming facilities to serve any remaining hotel guests. operations at mgm macau and mgm cotai resumed on february 20, 2020 however, there are currently limits on the number of gaming tables allowed to operate and restrictions on the number of seats available at each table, and the temporary suspension of the visa scheme and ferry service to macau remains in place. the company is currently unable to predict the duration of the business disruption in macau or the impact of the reduced customer traffic at the company's properties as a result, but we expect the impact could have a material effect on mgm china's results of operations for the first quarter of 2020 and potentially thereafter. although the outbreak has been largely concentrated in china, to the extent that the virus impacts the willingness or ability of customers to travel to the company's properties in the united states (due to travel restrictions, or otherwise), the company's domestic results of operations could also be negatively impacted. the extent to which the coronavirus impacts the company's results will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information which may emerge concerning the severity of the coronavirus and any additional actions taken to contain it from spreading. in addition, since we expect a significant number of customers to come to mgm macau and mgm cotai (and, to a lesser extent, our domestic properties) from mainland china, general economic and market conditions in china could impact our financial prospects. any slowdown in economic growth or changes to china's current restrictions on travel and currency conversion or movements, including market impacts resulting from china's recent anti-corruption campaign and related tightening of liquidity provided by non-bank lending entities and cross-border currency monitoring (including increased restrictions on union pay withdrawals and other atm limits on the withdrawal of patacas imposed by the government), could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland china and/or the amounts they are willing to spend at our properties. most recently, in july 2017, the chinese government, along with macau authorities, implemented new facial recognition technology on atm machines in macau to strictly enforce the know you r customer regulations for mainland chinese bank cardholders and in november 2017 new rules were adopted to control the cross-border transportation of cash and bearer negotiable instruments. it is unclear whether these and other measures will continue to be in effect, become more restrictive, or be readopted in the future. these developments have had, and any future policy developments that may be implemented may have, the effect of reducing the number of visitors to macau from mainland china, which could adversely impact tourism and the gaming industry in macau. furthermore, our operations in macau may be impacted by competition for limited labor resources and our ability to retain and hire employees. we compete with a large number of casino resorts for a limited number of employees and we anticipate that such competition will grow in light of the opening of new developments in macau. while we seek employees from outside of macau to adequately staff our resorts, certain macau government policies limit our ability to import labor in certain job classifications (for instance, the macau government requires that we only hire macau residents as dealers in our casinos) and any future government policies that freeze or cancel our ability to import labor could cause labor costs to increase. finally, because additional casino projects have commenced operations and other projects are under construction, the existing transportation infrastructure may need to be expanded to accommodate increased visitation to macau. if transportation facilities to and from macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting macau, the desirability of macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations at our developments in macau, could be negatively impacted. 16 we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our mgm 2020 plan. we have undertaken, and plan to undertake, several initiatives to implement the first phase of our mgm 2020 plan to reduce costs and further position us for growth. while we believe these initiatives will exceed $200 million of annual adjusted ebitdar uplift by the end of 2020, compared to 2018 results, our efforts may fail to achieve expected results. as part of the second phase of our mgm 2020 plan, we also expect to invest in our digital transformation to drive customer-centric strategy for revenue growth to drive additional ebitdar uplift, which efforts may also fail to achieve expected results. execution of our mgm 2020 plan is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that may change at any time, and, therefore, our actual adjusted ebitdar uplift may differ materially from what we anticipate. the anticipated benefits of our asset light strategy, including the bellagio sale-leaseback transaction and mgp breit venture transaction, may take longer to realize than expected or may not be realized at all. our current growth strategy is to pursue and execute on an asset-light business model, which involves a comprehensive review of our owned real estate assets to determine whether those assets can be monetized efficiently to allow unlocked capital to be redeployed towards balance sheet improvements, new growth opportunities and to return value to our shareholders. our ability to execute on this strategy will depend on our ability to identify accretive transactions that optimize the value of our remaining assets. there can be no assurances, however, that we will be able to monetize our remaining real property assets on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that any anticipated benefits from any such potential transactions will be realized. our ability to pay ongoing regular dividends to our stockholders is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and may be limited by our holding company structure, existing and future debt agreements entered into by us or our subsidiaries and state law requirements. we intend to pay ongoing regular quarterly cash dividends on our common stock however, our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, change the amount or frequency of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. in addition, our ability to pay dividends is restricted by certain covenants in our credit agreement, and because we are a holding company with no material direct operations, we are dependent on receiving cash from our operating subsidiaries to generate the funds from operations necessary to pay dividends on our common stock. we expect our subsidiaries will continue to generate significant cash flow necessary to maintain quarterly dividend payments on our common stock however, their ability to generate funds will be subject to their operating results, cash requirements and financial condition, any applicable provisions of state law that may limit the amount of funds available to us, and compliance with covenants and financial ratios related to existing or future agreements governing any indebtedness at such subsidiaries and any limitations in other agreements such subsidiaries may have with third parties. in addition, each of the companies in our corporate chain must manage its assets, liabilities and working capital in order to meet all of their respective cash obligations. as a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, future dividend payments may be reduced or eliminated. any change in the level of our dividends or the suspension of the payment thereof could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. nearly all of our domestic gaming facilities are leased and could experience risks associated with leased property, including risks relating to lease termination, lease extensions, charges and our relationship with the lessor, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. nearly all of our properties are subject to triple-net leases that, in addition to rent, require us to pay: (1) all facility maintenance, (2) all insurance required in connection with the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties, (3) taxes levied on or with respect to the leased properties (other than taxes on the income of the lessor), (4) all capital expenditures, and (5) all utilities and other services necessary or appropriate for the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties. we are responsible for paying these expenses notwithstanding the fact that many of the benefits received in exchange for such costs shall accrue in part to the landlords as the owners of the associated facilities. furthermore, our obligation to pay rent as well as the other costs described above is absolute in virtually all circumstances, regardless of the performance of the properties and other circumstances that might abate rent in leases that now place these risks on the tenant, such as certain events of casualty and condemnation. in addition, under the master lease with mgp, if some of our facilities should prove to be unprofitable or experience other issues that would warrant ceasing operations, or if we should otherwise decide to exit a particular property, we would remain obligated for lease payments and other obligations even if we decided to cease operations at those locations unless we are able to transfer the rights with respect to a particular property in accordance with the requirements of the mgp master lease. furthermore, our ability to transfer our obligations under the mgp master lease to a third-party with respect to individual properties, should we decide to withdraw from a particular location, is limited to non-las vegas properties and no more than two las vegas gaming properties, and is subject to identifying a willing third-party who meets the requirements for a transferee set forth in the mgp master lease, which we may be unable to find. in addition, we could incur special charges relating to the closing of such facilities including sublease termination costs, impairment charges and other special charges that would reduce our net income and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. james j. murren, our chairman, daniel j. taylor, one of our directors, and william j. hornbuckle, and john m. mcmanus, members of our senior management, may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions at mgp . james j. murren serves as our chairman and as the chairman of mgp. in addition, daniel j. taylor, one of our directors, is 17 also a director of mgp and william j. hornbuckle, and john m. mcmanus, members of our senior management, are also directors of mgp. while we have procedures in place to address such situations and the organizational documents with respect to mgp contain provisions that reduce or eliminate duties (including fiduciary duties) to any mgp shareholder to the fullest extent permitted by law, these overlapping positions could nonetheless create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when our or mgp's management and directors pursue the same corporate opportunities, such as potential acquisition targets, or face decisions that could have different implications for us and mgp. further, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and mgp (or its subsidiaries) regarding the terms of the agreements governing the separation and the relationship, between us and mgp, such as under the mgp master lease. potential conflicts of interest could also arise if we and mgp enter into any commercial or other adverse arrangements with each other in the future. despite our ability to exercise control over the affairs of mgp as a result of our ownership of the single outstanding class b share of mgp, mgp has adopted a policy under which certain transactions with us, including transactions involving consideration in excess of $25 million, must be approved in accordance with certain specified procedures, which could affect our ability to execute our operational and strategic objectives. we own the single outstanding class b share of mgp. the class b share is a non-economic interest in mgp which does not provide its holder any rights to profits or losses or any rights to receive distributions from operations of mgp or upon liquidation or winding up of mgp, and which represents a majority of the voting power of mgp's shares so long as the holder of the class b share and its controlled affiliates' (excluding mgp) aggregate beneficial ownership of the combined economic interests in mgp and the operating partnership does not fall below 30%. we, therefore, have the ability to exercise significant control over mgp's affairs, including control over the outcome of all matters submitted to mgp's shareholders for approval. mgp's operating agreement, however, provides that whenever a potential conflict of interest exists or arises between us or any of our affiliates (other than mgp and its subsidiaries), on the one hand, and mgp or any of its subsidiaries, on the other hand, any resolution or course of action by mgp's board of directors in respect of such conflict of interest shall be conclusively deemed to be fair and reasonable to mgp if it is (i) approved by a majority of a conflicts committee which consists solely of independent directors (which mgp refers to as special approval ) (such independence determined in accordance with the nyse's listing standards, the standards established by the exchange act to serve on an audit committee of a board of directors and certain additional independence requirements in our operating agreement), (ii) determined by mgp's board of directors to be fair and reasonable to mgp or (iii) approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of mgp's outstanding voting shares (excluding voting shares owned by us and our affiliates). furthermore, mgp's operating agreement provides that any transaction with a value, individually or in the aggregate, over $25 million between us or any of our affiliates (other than mgp and its subsidiaries), on the one hand, and mgp or any of its subsidiaries, on the other hand (any such transaction (other than the exercise of rights by us or any of our affiliates (other than mgp and its subsidiaries) under any of the material agreements entered into on the closing day of mgp's formation transactions), a threshold transaction ), shall be permitted only if (i) special approval is obtained or (ii) such transaction is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of mgp's outstanding voting shares (excluding voting shares owned by us and our affiliates). as a result, certain transactions, including any threshold transactions that we may want to pursue with mgp and that could have significant benefit to us may require special approval. there can be no assurance that the required approval will be obtained with respect to these transactions either from a conflicts committee comprised of independent mgp directors or the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares not held by us and our affiliates. the failure to obtain such requisite consent could materially affect our ability and the cost to execute our operational and strategic objectives. we have agreed not to have any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in china, macau, hong kong and taiwan, other than through mgm china . as a result of the extension of the macau gaming subconcession, we entered into a first renewed deed of non-compete undertakings with mgm china and ms. ho, pansy catilina chiu king ( ms. ho ), pursuant to which we are restricted from having any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in the people's republic of china, macau, hong kong and taiwan, other than through mgm china. while gaming is currently prohibited in china, hong kong and taiwan, if it is legalized in the future our ability to compete in these locations could be limited until the earliest of (i) the date mgm china's ordinary shares cease to be listed on the stock exchange of hong kong limited or (ii) the date when our ownership of mgm china shares is less than 20% of the then-issued share capital of mgm china. the macau government can terminate mgm grand paradise's subconcession under certain circumstances without compensating mgm grand paradise , exercise its redemption right with respect to the subconcession, or refuse to grant mgm grand paradise an extension of the subconcession in 2022 , any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business , financial condition , results of operations and cash flows . the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the subconcession in the event of fundamental non-compliance by mgm grand paradise with applicable macau laws or mgm grand paradise's basic obligations under the subconcession contract. mgm grand paradise has the opportunity to remedy any such non-compliance with its fundamental obligations under the subconcession contract within a period to be stipulated by the macau government. upon such termination, all of mgm grand paradise's casino area premises and gaming-related equipment would be transferred automatically to the macau government without compensation to mgm grand paradise, and we would cease to generate 18 any revenues from these operations. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will perform all of its obligations under the subconcession contract in a way that satisfies the requirements of the macau government. furthermore, under the subconcession contract, mgm grand paradise is obligated to comply with any laws and regulations that the macau government might promulgate in the future. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will be able to comply with these laws and regulations or that these laws and regulations would not adversely affect our ability to construct or operate our macau businesses. if any disagreement arises between mgm grand paradise and the macau government regarding the interpretation of, or mgm grand paradise's compliance with, a provision of the subconcession contract, mgm grand paradise will be relying on a consultation and negotiation process with the macau government. during any consultation or negotiation, mgm grand paradise will be obligated to comply with the terms of the subconcession contract as interpreted by the macau government. currently, there is no precedent concerning how the macau government will treat the termination of a concession or subconcession upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances mentioned above. the loss of the subconcession would require us to cease conducting gaming operations in macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the subconcession contract expires on june 26, 2022. unless the subconcession is extended, or legislation with regard to reversion of casino premises is amended, all of mgm grand paradise's casino premises and gaming-related equipment will automatically be transferred to the macau government on that date without compensation to us, and we will cease to generate any revenues from such gaming operations. beginning on april 20, 2017, the macau government may redeem the subconcession contract by providing us at least one year's prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, mgm grand paradise is entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of gaming and non-gaming revenue generated by mgm grand paradise, excluding the convention and exhibition facilities, during the taxable year prior to the redemption, before deducting interest, depreciation and amortization, multiplied by the number of remaining years before expiration of the subconcession. we cannot assure you that mgm grand paradise will be able to renew or extend the subconcession contract on terms favorable to mgm grand paradise or at all. we also cannot assure you that if the subconcession is redeemed, the compensation paid to mgm grand paradise will be adequate to compensate for the loss of future revenues. mgm grand paradise is dependent upon gaming promoters for a significant portion of gaming revenues in macau . gaming promoters, who promote gaming and draw high-end customers to casinos, are responsible for a significant portion of mgm grand paradise's gaming revenues in macau. with the rise in gaming in macau and the recent reduction in the number of licensed gaming promoters in macau and in the number of vip rooms operated by licensed gaming promoters, the competition for relationships with gaming promoters has increased. while mgm grand paradise is undertaking initiatives to strengthen relationships with gaming promoters, there can be no assurance that it will be able to maintain, or grow, relationships with gaming promoters. in addition, continued reductions in, and new regulations governing, the gaming promoter segment may result in the closure of additional vip rooms in macau, including vip rooms at mgm macau and mgm cotai. if mgm grand paradise is unable to maintain or grow relationships with gaming promoters, or if gaming promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our high-end customers (or if, as a result of recent market conditions in macau, gaming promoters encounter difficulties attracting patrons to come to macau or experience decreased liquidity limiting their ability to grant credit to patrons), mgm grand paradise's ability to grow gaming revenues will be hampered. furthermore, if existing vip rooms at mgm macau and mgm cotai are closed there can be no assurance that mgm grand paradise will be able to locate acceptable gaming promoters to run such vip rooms in the future in a timely manner, or at all. in addition, the quality of gaming promoters is important to mgm grand paradise's and our reputation and ability to continue to operate in compliance with gaming licenses. while mgm grand paradise strives for excellence in associations with gaming promoters, we cannot assure you that the gaming promoters with whom mgm grand paradise is or becomes associated will meet the high standards insisted upon. if a gaming promoter falls below mgm grand paradise's standards, mgm grand paradise or we may suffer reputational harm or possibly sanctions from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. we also grant credit lines to certain gaming promoters and any adverse change in the financial performance of those gaming promoters may impact the recoverability of these loans. the future recognition of our foreign tax credit deferred tax asset is uncertain, and the amount of valuation allowance we may apply against such deferred tax asset may change materially in future periods. we currently have significant deferred tax assets resulting from foreign tax credit carryforwards that are available to reduce potential taxable foreign-sourced income in future periods, including the recapture of overall domestic losses to the extent of u.s. taxable income. we evaluate our foreign tax credit deferred tax asset for recoverability and record a valuation allowance to the extent that we determine it is not more likely than not such asset will be recovered. this evaluation is based on all available evidence, including assumptions concerning future u.s. operating profits and foreign source income. as a result, significant judgment is required in assessing the possible need for a valuation allowance and 19 changes to our assumptions could result in a material change in the valuation allowance with a corresponding impact on the provision for income taxes in the period including such change. extreme weather conditions or climate change may cause property damage or interrupt business, which could harm our business and results of operations . certain of our properties are located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes and winter storms in the united states and severe typhoons in macau. such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. in addition, our operations could be adversely impacted by a drought or other cause of water shortage. a severe drought of extensive duration experienced in las vegas or in the other regions in which we operate could adversely affect our business and results of operations. although we maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such extreme weather conditions. furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. because a significant number of our major gaming resorts are concentrated on the las vegas strip, we are subject to greater risks than a gaming company that is more geographically diversified . given that a significant number of our major resorts are concentrated on the las vegas strip, our business may be significantly affected by risks common to the las vegas tourism industry. for example, the cost and availability of air services and the impact of any events that disrupt air travel to and from las vegas can adversely affect our business. we cannot control the number or frequency of flights to or from las vegas, but we rely on air traffic for a significant portion of our visitors. reductions in flights by major airlines as a result of higher fuel prices or lower demand can impact the number of visitors to our resorts. additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between las vegas and southern california, where a large number of our customers reside. capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may also affect the number of customers who visit our facilities. we extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables . we conduct a portion of our gaming activities on a credit basis through the issuance of markers which are unsecured instruments. table games players typically are issued more markers than slot players, and high-end players typically are issued more markers than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. high-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. furthermore, the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these high-end customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we issue markers to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit. in addition, mgm grand paradise extends credit to certain gaming promoters and those promoters can extend credit to their customers. uncollectible receivables from high-end customers and gaming promoters could have a significant impact on our results of operations. while gaming debts evidenced by markers and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the full faith and credit clause of the u.s. constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the u.s. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from united states courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. furthermore, we expect that mgm china will be able to enforce its gaming debts only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent mgm china gaming customers and gaming promoters are from other jurisdictions, mgm china may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and mgm china may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. moreover, under applicable law, mgm china remains obligated to pay taxes on uncollectible winnings from customers. even where gaming debts are enforceable, they may not be collectible. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. we may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets which could negatively affect our future profits . we review our goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets on an annual basis and during interim reporting periods in accordance with the authoritative guidance. significant negative trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates or lack of growth have resulted in write-downs and impairment charges in the past and, if one or more of such events occurs in the future, additional impairment charges or write-downs may be required in future periods. if we are required to record additional impairment charges or write-downs, this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations. 20 leisure and business travel , especially travel by air , are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events , such as terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or acts of war or hostility or the outbreak of infectious diseases . we are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel by air. since most of our customers travel by air to our las vegas and macau properties, any terrorist act or other acts of violence, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war, or any actual or perceived threat to the security of travel by air could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the outbreak of infectious diseases, such as the recent coronavirus, may severely disrupt domestic and international travel. for instance, the coronavirus outbreak has resulted in several countries, including united states, issuing travel warnings and suspending flights to and from china. in addition, on february 4, 2020, the hong kong sar government temporarily suspended all ferry service from hong kong to macau, until further notice . we are unable to predict the extent to which disruptions to travel as a result of the coronavirus will impact our results of operations but we expect that the current disruption will have an adverse effect on mgm china's results of operations for the first quarter of 2020 and potentially thereafter. furthermore, although we have been able to purchase some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism continues to be unavailable. co-investing in our properties, including our investment in citycenter, decreases our ability to manage risk . in addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement our business directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, in properties or businesses as a co-investor. co-investors often have shared control over the operation of the property or business. therefore, the operation of such properties or businesses is subject to inherent risk due to the shared nature of the enterprise and the need to reach agreements on material matters. in addition, investments with other investors may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-investor might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. consequently, actions by a co-investor might subject the properties or businesses owned by such entities to additional risk. further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our co-investors, or our co-investors could take actions binding on the property without our consent. additionally, should a co-investor become bankrupt, we could become liable for its share of liabilities. for instance, citycenter, which is 50% owned and managed by us, has a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect its business and its ability to meet its obligations. if citycenter is unable to meet its financial commitments and we and our co-investor are unable to support future funding requirements, as necessary, such event could have adverse financial consequences to us. in addition, the agreements governing citycenter's indebtedness subject citycenter and its subsidiaries to significant financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on its ability to incur additional indebtedness, place liens upon assets, make distributions to us, make certain investments, consummate certain asset sales, enter into transactions with affiliates (including us) and merge or consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets. the citycenter credit facility also includes certain financial covenants that require citycenter to maintain a maximum total net leverage ratio (as defined in citycenter's credit facility) for each quarter. we cannot be sure that citycenter will be able to meet this test in the future or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet the test. any of our future construction, development or expansion projects will be subject to significant development and construction risks, which could have a material adverse impact on related project timetables, costs and our ability to complete the projects . any of our future construction, development or expansion projects will be subject to a number of risks, including: lack of sufficient, or delays in the availability of, financing changes to plans and specifications engineering problems, including defective plans and specifications shortages of, and price increases in, energy, materials and skilled and unskilled labor, and inflation in key supply markets delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, residential, real estate development or construction projects labor disputes or work stoppages availability of qualified contractors and subcontractors disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors personal injuries to workers and other persons environmental, health and safety issues, including site accidents and the spread of viruses weather interferences or delays fires, typhoons and other natural disasters geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems and other unanticipated circumstances or cost increases. 21 the occurrence of any of these development and construction risks could increase the total costs, delay or prevent the construction, development, expansion or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of any future projects which we might undertake. in addition, the regulatory approvals associated with our development projects may require us to open future casino resorts by a certain specified time and to the extent we are unable to meet those deadlines, and any such deadlines are not extended, we may lose our regulatory approval to open a casino resort in a proposed jurisdiction, or incur payment penalties in connection with any delays which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we also make significant capital expenditures to maintain and upgrade our resorts, which may disrupt operations and displace revenue at the properties, including revenue lost while rooms, restaurants and meeting spaces are under renovation and out of service. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. in addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future . although we have all risk property insurance coverage for our operating properties, which covers damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war, or terrorism or other acts of violence), each policy has certain exclusions. in addition, our property insurance coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the facilities if there was a total loss. our level of insurance coverage also may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. in addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, acts of war, loss of income due to cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism or other acts of violence, loss of electrical power due to catastrophic events, rolling blackouts or otherwise, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage, and pollution, may not be covered at all under our policies. therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured losses. in addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties that may be injured or harmed. while we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in any such event. furthermore, the leases we entered into in connection with the mgp breit venture transaction and the bellagio breit venture require us to maintain specified insurance coverage. we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to obtain the types and limits of insurance coverage required by these leases and, to the extent such required insurance coverage cannot be obtained at commercially reasonable cost or at all, then we would need to obtain amendments to the leases or face a default by the applicable tenant under the lease, which could have material adverse effect on our business. we renew our insurance policies (other than our builder's risk insurance) on an annual basis. the cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits, further increase our deductibles, or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business . the development of intellectual property is part of our overall business strategy, and we regard our intellectual property to be an important element of our success. while our business as a whole is not substantially dependent on any one trademark or combination of several of our trademarks or other intellectual property, we seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our business operations through the use of trademarks. we file applications for, and obtain trademarks in, the united states and in foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, parties may infringe our trademarks and our rights may be invalidated or unenforceable. the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the united states. monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resource. we cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the united states and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. the unauthorized use or reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. 22 we are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the united states . our operations outside of the united states are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business under non-united states laws, regulations and customs. in particular, the risks associated with the operation of mgm china or any future operations in which we may engage in any other foreign territories, include: changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies in macau or other foreign jurisdictions changes in non-united states government programs possible failure by our employees or agents to comply with anti-bribery laws such as the united states foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions general economic conditions and policies in china, including restrictions on travel and currency movements difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non-united states operations different labor regulations changes in environmental, health and safety laws outbreaks of diseases or epidemics, including the recent coronavirus outbreak potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws political instability and actual or anticipated military and political conflicts economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations and uncertainties regarding judicial systems and procedures. these risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are also exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. if the united states dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other countries, our united states dollar reported income from sources where revenue is denominated in the currencies of other such countries will decrease. any violation of the foreign corrupt practices act or any other similar anti-corruption laws could have a negative impact on us . a significant portion of our revenue is derived from operations outside the united states, which exposes us to complex foreign and u.s. regulations inherent in doing cross-border business and in each of the countries in which we transact business. we are subject to compliance with the united states foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) and other similar anti-corruption laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. while our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. violations of these laws by us or our non-controlled ventures may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties against us, and the sec and u.s. department of justice continue to vigorously pursue enforcement of the fcpa. the occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. we face risks related to pending claims that have been , or future claims that may be , brought against us . claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries in various legal proceedings, and additional legal and tax claims arise from time to time. we may not be successful in the defense or prosecution of our current or future legal proceedings, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. please see the further discussion in legal proceedings and note 12 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. a significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements. work stoppages and other labor problems could negatively affect our business and results of operations. as of december 31, 2019, approximately 38,000 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. a prolonged dispute with the covered employees or any labor unrest, strikes or other business interruptions in connection with labor negotiations or others could have an adverse impact on our operations, and adverse publicity in the marketplace related to union messaging could further harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. also, wage and/or benefit increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations. to the extent that our non-union employees join unions, we would have greater exposure to risks associated with labor problems. furthermore, we may have, or acquire in the future, multi-employer plans that are classified as endangered, seriously endangered, or critical status. for instance, borgata's most significant plan is the legacy plan of the unite here retirement fund, which has been listed in critical status and is subject to a rehabilitation plan. plans in these classifications must adopt measures to improve their funded status through a funding improvement or rehabilitation plan, which may require additional contributions from employers (which may take the form of a surcharge on benefit contributions) and/or modifications to retiree benefits. in addition, while borgata has no current intention to withdraw from these plans, a withdrawal in the future could result in the incurrence of a contingent liability that would be payable in an amount and at such time (or over a period of time) that would vary based on a number of factors at the time of (and after) withdrawal. any such additional costs may be significant. 23 our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results . we are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. accordingly, increases in energy costs may have a negative impact on our operating results. additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices that affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues. the failure to maintain the integrity of our computer systems and customer information could result in damage to our reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits and restrictions on our use of data. we collect and process information relating to our employees, guests, and others for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. the collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted by the various states, the united states and other jurisdictions around the world. privacy laws and regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent (or conflict) between jurisdictions. various federal, state and foreign legislative or regulatory bodies may enact or adopt new or additional laws and regulations concerning privacy, data retention, data transfer, and data protection. for example, the european union has adopted a data protection regulation known as the general data protection regulation, which became fully enforceable in may 2018, that includes operational and compliance requirements with significant penalties for non-compliance. in addition, california has enacted a new privacy law, known as the california consumer privacy act of 2018, which went into effect on january 1, 2020 and provides some of the strongest privacy requirements in the united states. compliance with applicable privacy laws and regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. in addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy laws and regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us), including accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, unapproved dissemination or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in damage to our reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. we rely on proprietary and commercially available systems, software, and tools to provide security for processing of customer and employee information, such as payment card and other confidential or proprietary information. our data security measures are reviewed and evaluated regularly however, they might not protect us against increasingly sophisticated and aggressive threats including, but not limited to, computer malware, viruses, hacking and phishing attacks by third parties. in addition, while we maintain cyber risk insurance to assist in the cost of recovery from a significant cyber event, such coverage may not be sufficient . we also rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, maintain information and manage our businesses. disruptions in the availability of our computer systems, through cyber-attacks or otherwise, could impact our ability to service our customers and adversely affect our sales and the results of operations. for instance, there has been an increase in criminal cyber security attacks against companies where customer and company information has been compromised and company data has been destroyed. our information systems and data, including those we maintain with our third-party service providers, may be subject to cyber security breaches in the future. in addition, our third-party information system service providers face risks relating to cyber security similar to ours, and we do not directly control any of such parties' information security operations. a significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer or company data maintained by us or by a third-party service provider could have an adverse effect on our reputation, cause a material disruption to our operations, and result in remediation expenses, regulatory penalties and litigation by customers and other parties whose information was subject to such attacks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to risks related to corporate social responsibility and reputation. many factors influence our reputation and the value of our brands including the perception held by our customers, business partners, other key stakeholders and the communities in which we do business. our business faces increasing scrutiny related to environmental, social and governance activities and risk of damage to our reputation and the value of our brands if we fail to act responsibly in a number of areas, such as diversity and inclusion, environmental stewardship, supply chain management, climate change, workplace conduct, human rights, philanthropy and support for local communities. any harm to our reputation could impact employee engagement and retention and the willingness of customers and our partners to do business with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. we may seek to expand through investments in other businesses and properties or through alliances or acquisitions, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets, any of which may be unsuccessful . we intend to consider strategic and complementary acquisitions and investments in other businesses, properties or other assets. furthermore, we may pursue any of these opportunities in alliance with third parties, including mgp. acquisitions and investments in businesses, properties or assets, as well as these alliances, are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: spending cash and incurring debt assuming contingent liabilities unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems unanticipated incompatibility of purchasing, logistics, marketing and administration methods retaining key employees and consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. 24 we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that we will actually realize any anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, investments or alliances. in addition, even if we are able to successfully integrate new assets and businesses, the integration of such assets and businesses may result in unanticipated costs, competitive responses, loss or customer or other business relationships and the diversion of management attention. in addition, we periodically review our business to identify properties or other assets that we believe either are non-core, no longer complement our business, are in markets which may not benefit us as much as other markets or could be sold at significant premiums. from time to time, we may attempt to sell these identified properties and assets. there can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to complete dispositions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. if the jurisdictions in which we operate increase gaming taxes and fees, as well as other taxes and fees, our results could be adversely affected . state and local authorities raise a significant amount of revenue through taxes and fees, including taxes and fees on gaming activities. from time to time, legislators and government officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. periods of economic downturn or uncertainty and budget deficits may intensify such efforts to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. if the jurisdictions in which we operate were to increase taxes, including gaming taxes or fees, depending on the magnitude of the increase and any offsetting factors, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. for instance, income generated from gaming operations of mgm grand paradise currently has the benefit of a corporate tax exemption in macau through march 31, 2020, which exempts us from paying the 12% complementary tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games. we have applied for an extension of such exemption to june 26, 2022 to run concurrent with its extended sub-concession. while our competitors have received additional extensions of their complementary tax exemptions through june 26, 2022, which runs concurrent with the end of the term of their gaming concessions, and we believe mgm grand paradise should also be entitled to such extension in order to ensure non-discriminatory treatment among gaming concessionaires and sub-concessionaires, a requirement under macanese law, due to the uncertainty concerning taxation after the subconcession renewal process, we cannot assure you that any extensions of the tax exemption will be granted beyond march 31, 2020. conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of mgm china , the holding company for mgm grand paradise which owns and operates mgm macau and mgm cotai . as a result of the initial public offering of shares of mgm china common stock in 2011, mgm china has stockholders who are not affiliated with us, and we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of mgm china may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of mgm china. decisions that could have different implications for us and mgm china, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with mgm china, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest or an actual conflict of interest. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk in addition to the inherent risks associated with our normal operations, we are also exposed to additional market risks. market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. our primary exposure to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our variable rate long-term debt. we attempt to limit our exposure to interest rate risk by managing the mix of our long-term fixed rate borrowings and short-term borrowings under our bank credit facilities and by utilizing interest rate swap agreements that provide for a fixed interest payment on the operating partnership's credit facility. a change in interest rates generally does not have an impact upon our future earnings and cash flow for fixed-rate debt instruments. as fixed-rate debt matures, however, and if additional debt is acquired to fund the debt repayment, future earnings and cash flow may be affected by changes in interest rates. this effect would be realized in the periods subsequent to the periods when the debt matures. we do not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes and do not enter into derivative transactions that would be considered speculative positions . as of december 31, 2019, variable rate borrowings represented approximately 10% of our total borrowings after giving effect to the currently effective interest rate swap agreements on which the operating partnership pays a weighted average of 1.821% on a total notional amount of $1.9 billion. additionally, the operating partnership has $900 million of notional amount of forward starting swaps that are not currently effective. the following table provides additional information about our gross long-term debt subject to changes in interest rates excluding the effect of the operating partnership interest rate swaps discussed above : fair value debt maturing in, december 31, 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter total 2019 (in millions) fixed-rate $ $ $ 1,000 $ 1,250 $ 1,800 $ 4,851 $ 8,901 $ 9,759 average interest rate n/a n/a 7.8 % 6.0 % 5.5 % 5.4 % 5.8 % variable rate $ $ $ $ 399 $ 667 $ 1,305 $ 2,371 $ 2,377 average interest rate n/a n/a n/a 3.5 % 4.9 % 3.8 % 4.1 % in addition to the risk associated with our variable interest rate debt, we are also exposed to risks related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, mainly related to mgm china and to our operations at mgm macau and mgm cotai. while recent fluctuations in exchange rates have not been significant, potential changes in policy by governments or fluctuations in the economies of the united states, china, macau or hong kong could cause variability in these exchange rates. we cannot assure you that the hong kong dollar will continue to be pegged to the u.s. dollar or the current peg rate for the hong kong dollar will remain at the same level. the possible changes to the peg of the hong kong dollar may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate thereof. for u.s. dollar denominated debt incurred by mgm china, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the hong kong dollar in relation to the u.s. dollar could have adverse effects on our financial position and results of operations. as of december 31, 2019, a 1% weakening of the hong kong dollar (the functional currency of mgm china) to the u.s. dollar would result in a foreign currency transaction loss of $15 million . 50