quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. 24 table of contents we depend upon a limited number of third-party manufacturers to provide subassemblies and parts for our products. any disruptions in the operations of, or the loss of, any of these third parties could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers and increase our cost of sales. qct segment we subcontract all of the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits. we depend upon a limited number of third parties to perform these functions, some of which are only available from single sources with which we do not have long-term contracts. ibm, taiwan semiconductor manufacturing co. and united microelectronics are the primary foundry partners for our family of baseband integrated circuits. ibm, motorola and texas instruments are the primary foundry partners for our family of radio frequency and analog integrated circuits. our reliance on a sole-source vendor primarily occurs during the start-up phase of a new product. once a new product reaches a significant volume level, we establish alternative suppliers for technologies that we consider critical. our reliance on sole or limited-source vendors involves risks. these risks include possible shortages of capacity, product performance shortfalls, and reduced controls over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability, quality assurance, quantity and costs. we have no firm long-term commitments from our manufacturers to supply products to us for any specific period, or in any specific quantity, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. as a result, these manufacturers may allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production of other products while reducing deliveries to us on short notice. our operations also may be harmed by lengthy or recurring disruptions at any of the facilities of our manufacturers and may be harmed by disruptions in the distribution channels from our suppliers and to our customers. these disruptions may include labor strikes, work stoppages, terrorism, war, fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disasters. these disruptions could cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift the products from an affected manufacturer to another manufacturer. the loss of a significant third-party manufacturer or the inability of a third-party manufacturer to meet performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers. in addition, one or more of our manufacturers may obtain licenses from us to manufacture cdma integrated circuits that compete with our products. in this event, the manufacturer could elect to allocate scarce components and manufacturing capacity to their own products and reduce deliveries to us. in the event of a loss of, or a decision to change, a key third-party manufacturer, qualifying a new manufacturer and commencing volume production or testing could involve delay and expense, resulting in lost revenues, reduced operating margins and possible loss of customers. qwi segment several of the critical subassemblies and parts used in our qwbs division existing and proposed products are currently available only from third-party single or limited sources. these include items such as electronic and radio frequency components, and other sophisticated parts and subassemblies which are used in the omnitracs, truckmail, omniexpress, linq and omnione products. these third parties include companies such as tyco international (m/ a com), rakon, mini-circuits, cambridge tool mfg., andrew corporation, american design, deutsch ecd, pci limited, keytronic ems, seavey engineering associates, symbol technologies, navman nz, thomson-airpax mechatronics and eagle-picher industries. our reliance on sole or limited source vendors involves risks. these risks include possible shortages of certain key components, product performance shortfalls, and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability, quality and costs. in the event of a long-term supply interruption, alternate sources could be developed in a majority of the cases. the inability to obtain adequate quantities of significant compliant materials on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, liquidity and financial position. 25 table of contents a reduction or interruption in component supply or a significant increase in component prices could have a material adverse effect on our business or profitability. our ability to meet customer demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of parts and components from our suppliers and internal manufacturing capacity. we have experienced component shortages in the past, including components for our integrated circuit products, that have adversely affected our operations. although we work closely with our suppliers to avoid these types of shortages, we may continue to encounter these problems in the future. component shortages could adversely affect our ability and that of our customers and licensees to ship products in a timely basis and our customers or licensees demand for our products. any such shipment delays or declines in demand could reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or sustain acceptable levels of profitability. additionally, failure to meet customer demand in a timely manner could damage our reputation and harm our customer relationships. defects or errors in our products or in those made by our suppliers could harm our relations with our customers and expose us to liability. similar problems related to the products of our customers or licensees would harm our business. our software and integrated circuit products are inherently complex and may contain defects and errors that are detected only when the products are in use. further, because our products perform critical functions in our customers products and networks, such defects or errors could have a serious impact on our customers, which could damage our reputation, harm our customer relationships and expose us to liability. defects or impurities in our components, materials or software or those used by our customers or licensees, equipment failures or other difficulties could adversely affect our ability and that of our customers and licensees to ship products on a timely basis as well as customer or licensee demand for our products. any such shipment delays or declines in demand could reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or sustain acceptable levels of profitability. we and our customers or licensees may also experience component or software failures or defects which could require significant product recalls, reworks and/or repairs which are not covered by warranty reserves and which could consume a substantial portion of the capacity of our third-party manufacturers or those of our customers or licensees. resolving any defect or failure related issues could consume financial and/or engineering resources that could affect future product release schedules. our operating results are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market downturns. our revenues, earnings and other operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. general economic or other conditions causing a downturn in the market for our products or technology, affecting the timing of customer orders or causing cancellations or rescheduling of orders could also adversely affect our operating results. moreover, our customers may change delivery schedules or cancel or reduce orders without incurring significant penalties and generally are not subject to minimum purchase requirements. our future operating results will be affected by many factors, including the following: the success and rate of global cdma technology deployment; delays in the adoption of 3g cdma standards; changes in the growth rate of the wireless communications industry; consolidation in the wireless communications industry; strategic transactions, such as acquisitions, divestitures and investments, including investments in new ventures and cdma carriers; the collectibility of our trade and finance receivables; changes in the fair values of our strategic equity and derivative investments; 26 table of contents our ability to realize the fair values of our investments in thinly-traded public and private markets; the success of our strategic investments; the performance of our v sper holding subsidiary; our ability to retain existing or secure anticipated customers, licensees or orders, both domestically and internationally; the availability and cost of products and services from our third-party suppliers; our ability to develop, introduce and market new technology, products and services on a timely basis; foreign currency fluctuations, inflation and deflation; decreases in average selling prices for our products and our customers products that use our technology; decreases in demand for our products and our customers products that use our technology; intellectual property disputes and litigation; government regulations; product defects; changes in accounting standards or practices; changes to existing rules or practice regarding stock option accounting and taxation; management of inventory by us and our customers and their customers in response to shifts in market demand; energy blackouts and system failures; changes in the mix of technology and products developed, licensed, produced and sold; and seasonal customer demand. the foregoing factors are difficult to forecast and these, as well as other factors, could harm our quarterly or annual operating results. if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of investment analysts or investors in any period, the market price of our common stock may decline. our industry is subject to competition that could result in declining average selling prices for our licensees products and our products, negatively affecting our revenues and operating results. we currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that competition will continue. competition in the telecommunications market is affected by various factors including: comprehensiveness of products and technologies; manufacturing capability; scalability and the ability of the system technology to meet customers immediate and future network requirements; product performance and quality; design and engineering capabilities; compliance with industry standards; time to market; 27 table of contents system cost; and customer support. this competition has resulted and is expected to continue to result in reduced average selling prices for our products and those of our customers and licensees. reductions in the average selling price of our licensees products generally results in reduced average royalties. while this trend has, to a large extent, been mitigated by the introduction of new features and functionality in our licensees products, there is no guarantee that such mitigation will continue. we anticipate that additional competitors will enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in wireless telecommunications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in selected segments of the industry. our competitors include companies that promote non-cdma technologies and companies that design competing cdma integrated circuits, such as nokia, motorola, philips, ericsson, texas instruments, intel, nec, nortel, samsung, matsushita and siemens, all of whom are our licensees with the exception of intel. with respect to our omnitracs, truckmail, omniexpress, linq and omnione products and services, our existing competitors are aggressively pricing their products and services and could continue to do so in the future. in addition, these competitors are offering new value-added products and services similar in many cases to those we have developed or are developing. emergence of new competitors, particularly those offering low cost terrestrial-based products and current as well as future satellite-based systems, may impact margins and intensify competition in new markets. many of these current and potential competitors have advantages over us, including: longer operating histories and presence in key markets; greater name recognition; access to larger customer bases; and greater sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we have. as a result of these and other factors, our competitors may be more successful than us. in addition, we anticipate additional competitors will enter the market for products based on 3g standards. these competitors may have more established relationships and distribution channels in markets not currently deploying wireless communications technology. these competitors also have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with our existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. these relationships may affect customers decisions to purchase products or license technology from us. accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share to our detriment. currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenue and harm our ability to collect receivables. we are exposed to risk from fluctuations in currencies, which may change over time as our business practices evolve, that could impact our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. because we are a global concern, adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business due to a number of situations, including the following: financial instruments held by our consolidated subsidiaries and other companies in which we invest that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations, which may affect our reported earnings. our exposure to emerging market currencies may increase as we expand into those markets. investments in our consolidated foreign subsidiaries and in other foreign entities that use the local currency as the functional currency may decline in value as a result of declines in local currency values. 28 table of contents foreign cdma carriers to whom we have provided financing may be unable to pay their debts to us, which are denominated in u.s. dollars, from revenues generated by their projects, which are denominated in local currencies. declines in currency values in selected regions may adversely affect our operating results because our products and those of our customers and licensees may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. our trade receivables are generally united states dollar denominated. accordingly, any significant change in the value of the dollar against our customers or licensees functional currencies could result in an increase in our customers or licensees cash flow requirements and could consequently affect our ability to collect receivables. average selling prices for our customers products may be denominated in local currencies, and declines in local currency values may adversely affect future royalty revenue. our stock price is volatile. the stock market in general, and the stock prices of technology-based and wireless communications companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company. the market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future as well. factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock include: announcements concerning us or our competitors, including the selection of wireless communications technology by wireless service providers and the timing of the roll-out of those systems; receipt of substantial orders for integrated circuits and system software products; quality deficiencies in services or products; announcements regarding financial developments or technological innovations; international developments, such as technology mandates, political developments or changes in economic policies; lack of capital to invest in 3g networks; new commercial products; changes in recommendations of securities analysts; government regulations, including stock option accounting and tax regulations; acts of terrorism and war; proprietary rights or product or patent litigation; strategic transactions, such as acquisitions and divestitures; or rumors or allegations regarding our financial disclosures or practices. our future earnings and stock price may be subject to significant volatility, particularly on a quarterly basis. shortfalls in our revenues or earnings in any given period relative to the levels expected by securities analysts could immediately, significantly and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. our industry is subject to rapid technological change that we must keep pace with to successfully compete. new technological innovations generally require a substantial investment before they are commercially viable. we intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing new products and technologies, and it is possible that our development efforts will not be successful and that our new technologies will not result in meaningful revenues. in particular, we intend to continue to invest significant resources in developing integrated circuit products to support high-speed wireless internet access and multimode, multi-band, multi-network products including cdmaone, cdma2000 1x/1xev-do, gsm/gprs, wcdma and gps 29 table of contents position location technologies. we will also continue our significant development efforts with respect to brew (binary runtime environment for wireless), an applications execution platform that provides applications developers with an open standard platform for wireless devices on which to develop their products. an open standard platform means that brew can be made to interface with many software applications, including those developed by others. we cannot assure you that the revenues generated from these products will meet our expectations. the market for our products and technology is characterized by many factors, including: rapid technological advances and evolving industry standards; changes in customer requirements; frequent introductions of new products and enhancements; and evolving methods of building and operating telecommunications systems. our future success will depend on our ability to continue to develop and introduce new products, technology and enhancements on a timely basis. our future success will also depend on our ability to keep pace with technological developments, protect our intellectual property, satisfy varying customer requirements, price our products competitively and achieve market acceptance. the introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products and technology, and products and technology currently under development, obsolete and unmarketable. if we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments or customer requirements, or experience any significant delays in development, introduction or shipment of our products and technology in commercial quantities, our competitive position could be damaged. consolidations in the wireless communications industry could adversely affect our business. the wireless communications industry has experienced consolidation of participants, and this trend may continue. if wireless carriers consolidate with companies that utilize technologies that compete with cdma, then cdma may lose market share unless the surviving entity continues to deploy cdma. this consolidation could also result in delays in or cancellation of purchasing decisions by the merged companies, negatively affecting our revenues and operating results. the enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive and could divert our valuable resources. we rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes, including our patent portfolio. policing unauthorized use of our products and technologies is difficult. we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as united states laws. the vast majority of our patents and patent applications relate to our cdma digital wireless communications technology and much of the remainder of our patents and patent applications relate to our gpsone, brew, omnitracs, digital cinema, globalstar and eudora products. litigation may be required to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. as a result of any such litigation, we could lose our proprietary rights or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. any action we take to protect our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. in addition, failure to protect our trademark rights could impair our brand identity. 30 table of contents claims by third parties that we infringe their intellectual property or that patents on which we rely are invalid could adversely affect our business. from time to time, companies may assert patent, copyright and other intellectual proprietary rights to our technologies or technologies used in our industry. these claims may result in our involvement in litigation. we may not prevail in such litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if any of our products were found to infringe on protected technology, we could be required to redesign or license such technology and/ or pay damages or other compensation to the infringed party. if we were unable to license protected technology used in our products, we could be prohibited from making and selling such products. in addition, as the number of competitors in our market increases and the functionality of our products is enhanced and overlaps with the products of other companies, we may become subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others. any claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our operating results. in any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property, our licensees could also become the targets of litigation. any such litigation could severely disrupt the business of our licensees, which in turn could hurt our relations with our licensees and cause our revenues to decrease. a number of third parties have claimed to own patents essential to various proposed 3g cdma standards. if we or other product manufacturers are required to obtain additional licenses and/ or pay royalties to one or more patent holders, this could have a material adverse effect on the commercial implementation of our cdma products and technologies and our profitability. third parties also may commence actions seeking to establish the invalidity of our patents. in the event that a third-party challenges a patent, a court may invalidate the patent or determine that the patent is not enforceable, which would harm our competitive position. if any of our key patents are invalidated, or if the scope of the claims in any of these patents is limited by court decision, we could be prevented from licensing the invalidated or limited portion of our technology and our licensees may be prevented from manufacturing and selling the products that incorporate such technology without obtaining a license to use a third-party technology. even if a third-party challenge is not successful, it could be expensive and time consuming, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. the high amount of capital required to obtain radio frequencies licenses could slow the growth of the wireless communications industry and adversely affect our business. our growth is dependent upon the increased use of wireless communications services that utilize our cdma technology. in order to provide wireless communications services, carriers must obtain rights to use specific radio frequencies. the allocation of frequencies is regulated in the united states and other countries throughout the world and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless communications services. industry growth may be affected by the amount of capital required to obtain licenses to use new frequencies. typically, governments sell these licenses at auctions. over the last several years, the amount paid for these licenses has increased significantly, particularly for frequencies used in connection with 3g technology. in addition, litigation and disputes involving companies bidding to acquire spectrum has delayed the expansion of wireless networks in the united states, and it is possible that this delay could continue for a significant amount of time. the significant cost of licenses and delays associated with disputes over license auctions may slow the growth of the industry if service providers are unable to obtain or service the additional capital necessary to implement infrastructure to support 3g technology. our growth could be adversely affected if this occurs. our business and operating results may be harmed by inflation and deflation. inflation has had and may continue to have adverse effects on the economies and securities markets of certain countries and could have adverse effects on our customers, licensees and the projects of cdma carriers in those countries, including their ability to obtain financing and repay debts. brazil and mexico, for example, have periodically experienced relatively high rates of inflation and currency devaluation. significant 31 table of contents inflation or deflation could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, liquidity and financial position. if we experience product liability claims or recalls, we may incur significant expenses and experience decreased demand for our products. testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our products and those of our licensees and customers entails the risk of product liability. although we believe our product liability insurance will be adequate to protect against product liability claims, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to maintain such insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to product liability. our inability to maintain insurance at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products and those of our licensees and customers and harm our future operating results. in addition, a product liability claim or recall could harm our reputation and result in decreased demand for our products. our business depends on the availability of satellite and other networks for our omnitracs, truckmail, omniexpress, linq and omnione systems and other communications products. our omnitracs and truckmail systems currently operate in the united states market on leased ku-band satellite transponders. our data satellite transponder and position reporting satellite transponder lease runs through october 2006. based on system capacity analysis, we believe that the united states omnitracs and truckmail operations will not require additional transponder capacity through 2003. we believe that in the event additional transponder capacity would be required in fiscal 2003 or in future years, additional capacity will be available on acceptable terms. however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire additional transponder capacity on acceptable terms in a timely manner. a failure to maintain adequate satellite capacity would harm our business, operating results, liquidity and financial position. our omniexpress, linq and omnione systems are terrestrial-based products and thus rely on various wireless terrestrial communications networks operated by third parties. we believe these terrestrial networks will be available for our products; however, we cannot assure you that these networks will continue to be available to us or that they will perform adequately for our needs. the unavailability or nonperformance of these network systems could harm our business. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. despite the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology networking systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war, and telecommunication failures. any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. to the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our customers data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. in addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. message transmissions for domestic omnitracs, truckmail, omniexpress, linq and omnione operations are formatted and processed at the network management center in san diego, california, which we operate, with a fully redundant backup network management center located in las vegas, nevada. our network management center operations are subject to system failures, which could interrupt the services and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. from time to time, we install new or upgraded business management systems. to the extent such systems fail or are not properly implemented, we may experience material disruptions to our business that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 32 table of contents government regulation may adversely affect our business. our products and those of our customers and licensees are subject to various fcc regulations in the united states and other international regulations. these regulations require that these products meet certain radio frequency emission standards, not cause unallowable interference to other services, and in some cases accept interference from other services. we are also subject to government regulations and requirements of local standards bodies outside the united states, where we are less prominent than local competitors and have less opportunity to participate in the establishment of regulatory and standards policies. we are also subject to state and federal health, safety and environmental regulations, as well as regulations related to the handling of and access to classified information. changes in the regulation of our activities, including changes in the allocation of available spectrum by the united states government and other governments or exclusion of our technology by a standards body, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, liquidity and financial position. if wireless handsets pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers may decrease. concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions, even if unfounded, may have the effect of discouraging the use of wireless handsets, which would decrease demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers. in recent years, the fcc and foreign regulatory agencies have updated the guidelines and methods they use for evaluating radio frequency emissions from radio equipment, including wireless handsets. in addition, interest groups have requested that the fcc investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and medical devices. there also may be some safety risks associated with the use of wireless handsets while driving. concerns over these safety risks and the effect of any legislation that may be adopted in response to these risks could reduce demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers in the united states as well as foreign countries. our business and operating results will be harmed if we are unable to manage growth in our business. certain of our businesses have experienced periods of rapid growth that have placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our managerial, operational and financial resources. in order to manage this growth, we must continue to improve and expand our management, operational and financial systems and controls, including quality control and delivery and service capabilities. we also need to continue to expand, train and manage our employee base. we must carefully manage research and development capabilities and production and inventory levels to meet product demand, new product introductions and product and technology transitions. we cannot assure you that we will be able to timely and effectively meet that demand and maintain the quality standards required by our existing and potential customers and licensees. in addition, inaccuracies in our demand forecasts, or failure of the systems used to develop the forecasts, could quickly result in either insufficient or excessive inventories and disproportionate overhead expenses. if we ineffectively manage our growth or are unsuccessful in recruiting and retaining personnel, our business and operating results will be harmed. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the design, development and commercialization of our products and technology. our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our board members, executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. in addition, implementing our product and business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, and our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. key technical personnel represent a significant asset, and the competition for these personnel is intense in the wireless communications industry. we may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel in periods of poor operating performance given the significant use of incentive compensation by our competitors. we do not have 33 table of contents employment agreements with our key management personnel and do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our personnel. the loss of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could negatively impact our ability to design, develop and commercialize our products and technology. future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. any changes requiring that we record compensation expense in the statement of operations for employee stock options using the fair value method could have a significant negative effect on our reported results. new pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, new sec regulations and nasdaq stock market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. as a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. pro forma financial information that we disclose concerning our operations does not conform to generally accepted accounting principles and may not comply with finalized sec regulations. we prepare and release quarterly unaudited and annual audited financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (gaap). we also disclose and discuss certain pro forma financial information in our related earnings releases and investor conference calls. our pro forma financial information excludes the results of our qsi segment, goodwill amortization and certain other items. we believe the disclosure of pro forma financial information helps investors more meaningfully evaluate the results of our ongoing operations and that the securities analysts who cover our stock evaluate our performance on this basis. however, we urge investors to carefully review the gaap financial information included as part of our quarterly reports on form 10-q and our annual reports on form 10-k that are filed with the securities and exchange commission and our quarterly earnings releases and compare that gaap financial information with the pro forma financial results disclosed in our quarterly earnings releases and investor calls, as well as in some of our other reports. in addition, pursuant to the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the sec has released proposed rules and is required to issue final rules regarding the publication of pro forma financial information in the first quarter of 2003. it is possible the final rules could materially limit our ability to disclose pro forma financial information, which could make it more difficult for us to communicate the results of our ongoing operations. this result could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock and lead to increased stock price volatility . actual results may differ from estimates made in prior periods, causing adverse unexpected fluctuations affecting our reported financial results. the preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. by their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. we base our estimates on historical and anticipated results and trends and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, including assumptions as to future events. these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from 34 table of contents other sources. actual results that differ from our estimates could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. our stockholder rights plan, certificate of incorporation and delaware law could adversely affect the performance of our stock. our certificate of incorporation provides for cumulative voting in the election of directors. in addition, our certificate of incorporation provides for a classified board of directors and includes a provision that requires the approval of holders of at least 66 2/3% of our voting stock as a condition to a merger or certain other business transactions with, or proposed by, a holder of 15% or more of our voting stock. this approval is not required in cases where certain of our directors approve the transaction or where certain minimum price criteria and other procedural requirements are met. our certificate of incorporation also requires the approval of holders of at least 66 2/3% of our voting stock to amend or change the provisions mentioned relating to the classified board, cumulative voting or the transaction approval. under our bylaws, stockholders are not permitted to call special meetings of our stockholders. finally, our certificate of incorporation provides that any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting rather than by any consent in writing. the classified board, transaction approval, special meeting and other charter provisions may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change in our control. these provisions may also discourage certain types of transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices and may limit our stockholders ability to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. further, we have distributed a dividend of one right for each outstanding share of our common stock pursuant to the terms of our preferred share purchase rights plan. these rights will cause substantial dilution to the ownership of a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors and may have the effect of deterring hostile takeover attempts. in addition, our board of directors has the authority to fix the rights and preferences of and issue shares of preferred stock. this right may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control without action by our stockholders. we are at risk of securities class action litigation that could result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. due to the volatility of our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources. 35 table of contents item 2.properties " --> item 2. properties at september 30, 2002, we occupied the indicated square footage in the owned or leased facilities described below (in thousands): number total of square buildings location status footage primary use 12 united states owned 1,273 executive and administrative offices, manufacturing, research and development, sales and marketing, service functions, and network management hub. 35 united states leased 979 administrative offices, research and development, sales and marketing, service functions, and network management hub. 10 brazil owned 225 administrative offices, sales and marketing, service functions and network operating centers. 32 brazil leased 422 administrative offices, sales and marketing, service functions and network operating centers. 1 japan leased 16 administrative offices and sales and marketing. 1 israel leased 38 administrative offices and research and development. 1 netherlands leased 15 administrative offices, research and development, and sales and marketing. 2 england leased 17 administrative offices, sales and marketing and research and development. 4 china leased 55 administrative offices, sales and marketing and research and development. 17 other international leased 35 administrative offices and sales and marketing. total square footage 3,075 in addition to the facilities above, we also own or lease an additional 1,323,900 square feet of properties that are leased or subleased to third parties. our leases expire at varying dates through 2009 not including renewals that would be at our option. we believe that our facilities will be suitable and adequate for the present purposes, and that the productive capacity in such facilities is substantially being utilized. in the future, we may need to purchase, build or lease additional facilities to meet the requirements projected in our long-term business plan. item 3.legal proceedings " --> item 3. legal proceedings schwartz, et al v. qualcomm: on december 14, 2000, 77 former employees filed a lawsuit against us in the district court for boulder county, colorado, alleging claims for intentional misrepresentation, nondisclosure and concealment, violation of c.r.s. section 8-2-104 (obtaining workers by misrepresentation), breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, promissory estoppels, negligent misrepresentation, unjust enrichment, violation of california labor code section 970, violation of california civil code sections 1709-1710, rescission, violation of california business professions code section 17200 and violation of california civil code section 1575. since then, 10 other individuals have joined the suit as plaintiffs. the complaint seeks economic, emotional distress and punitive damages and unspecified amounts of interest. on november 29, 2001, the court granted our motion to dismiss 17 of the plaintiffs from the lawsuit. subsequently, the court dismissed 3 other plaintiffs from the lawsuit. on november 18, 2002, the court granted our motion to dismiss 66 of the remaining 67 plaintiffs from the lawsuit. although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of the dispute would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, we believe the claims are without merit and will vigorously defend the action. gte wireless incorporated (gte) v. qualcomm: on june 29, 1999, gte filed an action in the united states district court for the eastern district of virginia seeking damages and injunctive relief and 36 table of contents asserting that wireless telephones sold by us infringe a single patent allegedly owned by gte. on september 15, 1999, the court granted our motion to transfer the action to the united states district court for the southern district of california. on february 14, 2002, the district court granted our motion for summary judgment that our products did not infringe gte asserted patent and denied gte motion seeking summary judgment of infringement. our counterclaims that the patent is invalid or unenforceable remain pending in the district court and have been stayed while the ruling granting our motion and denying gte motion is on appeal. although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of the dispute would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, we believe the action is without merit and will vigorously defend the action. durante, et al v. qualcomm: on february 2, 2000, three former employees filed a putative class action against us, ostensibly on behalf of themselves and those former employees of ours whose employment was terminated in april 1999. virtually all of the purported class of plaintiffs received severance packages at the time of the termination of their employment, in exchange for a release of claims, other than federal age discrimination claims, against us. the complaint was filed in california superior court in and for the county of los angeles and purports to state ten causes of action including breach of contract, age discrimination, violation of labor code section 200, violation of labor code section 970, unfair business practices, intentional infliction of emotional distress, unjust enrichment, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, declaratory relief and undue influence. the complaint seeks an order accelerating all unvested stock options for the members of the class, plus economic and liquidated damages of an unspecified amount. on june 27, 2000, the case was ordered transferred from los angeles county superior court to san diego county superior court. on july 3, 2000, we removed the case to the united states district court for the southern district of california, and discovery commenced. on may 29, 2001, the court dismissed all plaintiffs claims except for claims arising under the federal age discrimination in employment act. on july 16, 2001, the court granted conditional class certification on the remaining claims, to be revisited by the court at the end of the discovery period. currently there are 83 individuals included in the class. although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of the dispute would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, we believe the claims are without merit and will vigorously defend the action. zoltar satellite alarm systems, inc. v. qualcomm and snaptrack: on march 30, 2001, zoltar satellite alarm systems, inc. (zoltar) filed suit against us and snaptrack, our wholly-owned subsidiary, seeking damages and injunctive relief and alleging infringement of three patents. on august 27, 2001, zoltar filed an amended complaint adding sprint corp. as a named defendant and narrowing certain infringement claims against us and snaptrack. since then, zoltar has dismissed sprint corp. as a defendant. on september 23, 2002, the court denied zoltar motion for summary judgment that the accused products infringe. our and snaptrack various motions for summary judgment of noninfringement and invalidity are currently pending and await hearing. trial has been set for february 11, 2003. although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this dispute would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, we believe the claims are without merit and will vigorously defend the action. we have been named, along with many other manufacturers of wireless handsets, wireless carriers and industry-related organizations, as a defendant in a purported class action lawsuit (in re wireless telephone frequency emissions products liability litigation, united states district court for the district of maryland), and in several individually filed actions, seeking personal injury, economic and/or punitive damages arising out of the sale of cellular phones. the courts that have reviewed similar claims against other companies to date have held that there was insufficient scientific basis for the plaintiffs claims in those cases, and the judge responsible for the multi-district litigation proceedings recently made such a ruling in another case to which we are not a party. although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of these and other disputes would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, we believe the claims are without merit and will vigorously defend the actions. we have not recorded any accrual for contingent liability associated with the legal proceedings described above based on our belief that a liability, while possible, is not probable. further, any possible range of loss 37 table of contents cannot be estimated at this time. we are engaged in other legal actions arising in the ordinary course of our business and believe that the ultimate outcome of these actions will not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position. item 4.submission of matters to a vote of security holders " --> item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders no matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the quarter ended september 30, 2002. 38 table of contents part ii " --> part ii item 5.market for registrant common equity and related stockholder matters " --> item 5. market for registrant common equity and related stockholder matters market information. our common stock is traded on the nasdaq national market under the symbol qcom. the following table sets forth the range of high and low sales prices on the national market of the common stock for the periods indicated, as reported by nasdaq. such quotations represent inter-dealer prices without retail markup, markdown or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. high ($) low ($) fiscal 2001 first quarter 107.81 61.00 second quarter 89.38 47.25 third quarter 71.04 42.75 fourth quarter 68.87 42.60 fiscal 2002 first quarter 62.49 38.31 second quarter 53.34 31.03 third quarter 40.35 24.49 fourth quarter 31.39 23.21 as of november 20, 2002, there were 10,142 holders of record of the common stock. on november 20, 2002, the last sale price reported on the nasdaq national market for the common stock was $39.15 per share. we have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and have no present intention to do so. securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans. information about qualcomm equity compensation plans at september 30, 2002 was as follows (number of shares in thousands): number of number of shares to be weighted shares issued upon average remaining exercise of exercise price available for outstanding of outstanding future plan category options options issuance equity compensation plans approved by shareholders(a) 116,830 $ 29.56 35,710 (c) equity compensation plans not approved by shareholders(b) 444 1.94 78 (d) total 117,274 $ 29.45 35,788 (a) consists of six qualcomm plans: 1991 stock option plan, 2001 stock option plan, 1998 non-employee directors stock option plan, 2001 non-employee directors stock option plan, 2001 employee stock purchase plan, and the executive retirement matching contribution plan. (b) consists of two plans: qualcomm 1996 non-qualified employee stock purchase plan and the snaptrack, inc. 1995 stock option plan. see notes to consolidated financial statements, note 10 employee benefit plans. (c) includes 11,012 shares reserved for issuance under the 2001 employee stock purchase plan. (d) all shares remaining available for future issuance are related to the 1996 non-qualified employee stock purchase plan. 39 table of contents information about employee and executive stock option grants at september 30 was as follows: 2002 2001 2000 net grants during the period as % of outstanding shares 3.4% 2.0% 1.3% grants to named executive officers* as % of total options granted 6.0% 9.6% 10.7% grants to named executive officers* as % of outstanding shares 0.2% 0.2% 0.1% cumulative options held by named executive officers* as % of total options outstanding 11.9% 14.0% 13.0% * named executive officers are defined by the sec for inclusion in the proxy statement as the chief executive officer and each of the four other most highly compensated executive officers. 40 table of contents item 6.selected consolidated financial data " --> item 6. selected consolidated financial data the following balance sheet data and statements of operations for the five years ended september 30, 2002 were derived from our audited consolidated financial statements. consolidated balance sheets at september 30, 2002 and 2001 and the related consolidated statements of operations and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended september 30, 2002 and notes thereto appear elsewhere herein. the data should be read in conjunction with the annual consolidated financial statements, related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere herein. years ended september 30(1) 2002 2001(5) 2000(5) 1999 1998 (in thousands except per share data) statement of operations data: revenues $ 3,039,560 $ 2,679,786 $ 3,196,780 $ 3,937,299 $ 3,347,870 operating income 673,268 38,687 722,638 405,140 242,665 income (loss) before accounting change 359,677 (560,141 ) 622,146 200,879 108,532 accounting changes, net of tax (17,937 ) net income (loss) $ 359,677 $ (578,078 ) $ 622,146 $ 200,879 $ 108,532 basic net earnings (loss) per common share(2): income (loss) before accounting change $ 0.47 $ (0.74 ) $ 0.87 $ 0.34 $ 0.20 accounting change, net of tax (0.02 ) net income (loss) $ 0.47 $ (0.76 ) $ 0.87 $ 0.34 $ 0.20 diluted net earnings (loss) per common share(2)(3): income (loss) before accounting change $ 0.44 $ (0.74 ) $ 0.79 $ 0.31 $ 0.18 accounting change, net of tax (0.02 ) net income (loss) $ 0.44 $ (0.76 ) $ 0.79 $ 0.31 $ 0.18 shares used in per share calculations(2)(3): basic 770,887 755,969 717,205 594,714 553,623 diluted 809,329 755,969 800,121 649,889 591,697 pro forma effect of change in accounting principle(4): net income $ 595,116 $ 209,062 $ 110,586 net earnings per common share basic $ 0.83 $ 0.35 $ 0.20 net earnings per common share diluted $ 0.75 $ 0.32 $ 0.19 balance sheet data: cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 3,176,249 $ 2,580,512 $ 2,520,914 $ 1,684,926 $ 303,324 total assets 6,509,521 5,669,733 6,014,917 4,534,950 2,566,713 long-term debt 94,288 235 266 795 3,863 company-obligated mandatorily redeemable trust convertible preferred securities of a subsidiary trust holding solely debt securities of the company 659,555 660,000 total stockholders equity $ 5,391,956 $ 4,812,415 $ 5,468,263 $ 2,871,755 $ 957,596 41 table of contents (1) our fiscal year ends on the last sunday in september. as a result, fiscal 2001 includes 53 weeks. (2) we effected a two-for-one stock split in may 1999 and a four-for-one stock split in december 1999. all references to number of shares and per share amounts have been restated to reflect these stock splits. (3) the 2001 diluted shares exclude the potential dilutive effect of 51,188,000 incremental shares due to their anti-dilutive effect. (4) the pro forma effect of change in accounting principle reflects the impact of sab 101 on previously reported results assuming it had been in effect in those periods. (5) the 2001 and 2000 statements of operations and balance sheet data have been adjusted to record equity losses related to our investment in the v sper operating companies. see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. 42 table of contents item 7.management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation " --> item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation except for the historical information contained herein, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. actual results may differ substantially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks described in the section entitled risk factors and elsewhere in this annual report. our consolidated financial data includes snaptrack, inc., v sper holding ltd. and other consolidated subsidiaries. overview we design, manufacture and market digital wireless telecommunications products and services based on our cdma and other technologies. we derive revenue principally from license fees and royalties from our intellectual property, from sales of integrated circuit products, from services and related hardware sales and from software development and related services. operating expenses primarily consist of cost of revenues, research and development, selling, general and administrative, amortization of goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets, and asset impairment and related charges. our qualcomm cdma technologies (qct) segment is a leading developer and supplier of cdma-based integrated circuits and system software for wireless voice and data communications and global positioning system products. qct software products are the interface link between the operating system that controls the phone and the functionality embedded in our integrated circuit products. qct products are sold to many of the world leading wireless phone and infrastructure manufacturers. qct revenues comprised 52%, 51% and 39% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. qct operating margin was 28% in fiscal 2002, compared to 22% in 2001 and 32% in 2000. the increase in operating margin in 2002 as compared to 2001 was primarily related to a change in product mix toward higher end devices utilizing our cdma2000 1x products. the decrease in operating margin in 2001 as compared to 2000 was primarily related to increased research and development costs associated with new integrated circuit product and technology initiatives, as well as increased advertising expenses. our qualcomm technology licensing (qtl) segment receives license fees and royalty payments for use of our cdma technology by domestic and international wireless telecommunications equipment suppliers. qtl generates revenue from license fees for our patented cdma (e.g., cdmaone, cdma2000, wcdma and td-scdma) technologies as well as ongoing royalties based on worldwide sales by licensees that design, manufacture and sell products incorporating our cdma technology. qtl revenues comprised 28%, 29% and 22% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. qtl operating margin was 89% in fiscal 2002, compared to 90% in 2001 and 2000. our qualcomm wireless internet (qwi) segment, which includes qualcomm wireless business solutions (qwbs), qualcomm internet services (qis) and qualcomm digital media (qdm), generates revenue primarily through mobile communication products and services, software, and software development aimed at support and delivery of wireless applications. qwi revenues comprised 14%, 16% and 14% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. qwi operating margin was a negative 2% in fiscal 2002, compared to positive 8% in 2001 and 19% in 2000. the decrease in operating margin from 2001 to 2002, and from 2000 to 2001, was primarily due to expenses incurred in the development, support and marketing efforts related to the brew product. our qualcomm strategic initiatives (qsi) segment makes strategic investments to promote the worldwide adoption of cdma products and services for wireless voice and internet data communications. our strategy is to invest in cdma carriers, licensed device manufacturers and start-up companies that we believe open new markets for cmda technology, support the design and introduction of new cdma-based products or possess unique capabilities or technology to promote internet data communications. the qsi segment revenues relate primarily to the consolidation of our investment in v sper holding. qsi revenues comprised 4% of fiscal 2002 total consolidated revenues. qsi did not generate revenues in 2001 or 2000. qsi operating margin was negative 401% in 2002 and was not meaningful in 2001 or 2000. 43 table of contents recent global economic weakness has had wide-ranging effects on markets that we serve, particularly wireless communications equipment manufacturers and network operators. we cannot predict whether a recovery will occur or what effects negative events, such as war, may have on the economy. further, an economic recovery, if it occurs, may not benefit us in the near term. if it does not, our ability to increase or maintain our revenues and operating results may be impaired. to increase our revenues and market share in future periods, we are dependent upon the adoption and commercial deployment of 3g wireless communications equipment, products and services based on our cdma technology. although network operators have commercially deployed cdma2000 1x, we cannot predict the timing or success of other commercial deployments. if existing deployments are not commercially successful, or if new commercial deployments of cdma2000 1x are delayed or unsuccessful, our business and financial results may be harmed. we currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that competition will continue. historically, this competition has resulted and is expected to continue to result in reduced average selling prices for our products and those of our customers and licensees. reductions in the average selling price of our licensees products generally results in reduced average royalties. while this trend has, to a large extent, been mitigated by the introduction of new features and functionality in our licensees products, there is no guarantee that such mitigation will continue. the wireless communications industry has experienced consolidation of participants, and this trend may continue. if wireless carriers consolidate with companies that utilize technologies that compete with cdma, then cdma may lose market share unless the surviving entity continues to deploy cdma. this consolidation could also result in delays in or cancellation of purchasing decisions by the merged companies, negatively affecting our revenues and operating results. we will continue to expand our international sales operations and enter new international markets. this expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources to successfully develop direct and indirect international sales and support channels, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful or that our expenditures in this effort will not exceed the amount of any resulting revenues. if we are not able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products and technologies, then we may not be able to maintain an acceptable rate of growth in our business. revenues from customers in the united states, south korea, and japan comprised 30%, 37% and 18%, respectively, of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2002, as compared to 35%, 35%, and 22%, respectively, in fiscal 2001, and 53%, 22% and 13%, respectively, in fiscal 2000. we distinguish revenue from external customers by geographic areas based on customer location. the decreases in revenues from customers in the united states, as a percentage of the total, is primarily attributed to the sale of the terrestrial-based cdma wireless consumer phone business in february 2000 and a decrease in revenues related to business with globalstar. the increases in revenues from customers in south korea, as a percentage of the total, is primarily attributed to the commercial deployment of our 3g cdma2000 1x technology in october 2000 in south korea, where 15 million, or 46%, of the nation total mobile service users were using this technology by the end of october 2002. the general increase in revenues from customers in japan as a percentage of the total is primarily attributed to an ongoing migration to 3g services, illustrated by kddi expectation of 7 million, or 40%, of their subscriber base using 3g services by march 2003, as reported by the cdg. critical accounting policies and estimates our discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states. the preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. on an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, adequacy of allowances for doubtful accounts, valuation of intangible assets and investments, income taxes, and litigation. we base our estimates on historical and anticipated results and trends and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, including assumptions as to future events. these estimates form the basis for making 44 table of contents judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. by their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. actual results may differ from our estimates. we believe that the following significant accounting policies and assumptions may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity than others. revenue recognition we derive revenue principally from royalties, from sales of integrated circuit products, from services and related hardware sales, from software development and related services, and from license fees for intellectual property. the timing of revenue recognition and the amount of revenue actually recognized in each case depends upon a variety of factors, including the specific terms of each arrangement and the nature of our deliverables and obligations. determination of the appropriate method of revenue recognition involves judgments and estimates that we believe are reasonable, but it is possible that actual results may differ from our estimates. in december 1999, the securities and exchange commission (sec) issued staff accounting bulletin no. 101 (sab 101), revenue recognition in financial statements which we adopted in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001 and applied retroactively to the first quarter of fiscal 2001. we recognized $66 million and $95 million during fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively, in net income before income taxes and accounting changes related to revenue and expense that was recognized in prior years. we continue to monitor developments in emerging issues task force discussions of issue 00-21, accounting for revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables and issue 02-g, recognition of revenue from licensing arrangements on intellectual property, to determine what, if any, impact a final consensus may have on our revenue recognition policy. we license rights to use our intellectual property portfolio, which includes patent rights to use cdmaone, cdma2000, cdma2000 1x, cdma2000 1x ev-do, td-scdma and wcdma technologies. licensees typically pay a non-refundable license fee and on-going royalties on their sales of products incorporating our intellectual property. license fees are generally recognized over the estimated period of future benefit to the average licensee, typically five to seven years. we generally recognize royalty revenue as earned when reasonable estimates of such amounts can be made. certain royalty revenues are accrued based on estimates prior to the reporting of such revenues by our licensees. estimates of royalty revenues are based on analyses of historical royalty data by licensee, the relationship between the timing of our sales of integrated circuits to our licensees and our licensees sales of cdma phones and infrastructure equipment, average sales price forecasts, and current market and economic trends. when our licensees report royalties for which we accrued revenues based on estimates, we adjust revenues for the period in which the reports are received. revenues from sales of our cdma-based integrated circuits are recognized at the time of shipment, or when title and risk of loss passes to the customer, if later. revenues and expenses from sales of certain satellite and terrestrial-based two-way data messaging and position reporting hardware and related software products are recognized ratably over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the hardware product or the expected messaging service period, which is typically five years, as the messaging service is considered integral to the functionality of the hardware and software. revenues from providing services are recorded when earned. revenues from long-term contracts are generally recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, based on costs incurred compared with total estimated costs. the percentage-of-completion method relies on estimates of total contract revenue and costs. revenues and profit are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion. revisions in profit estimates are charged or credited to income in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. if actual contract costs are greater than expected, reduction of contract profit would be required. billings on uncompleted contracts in excess of incurred cost and accrued profits are classified as unearned revenue. estimated contract losses are recognized when determined. if substantive uncertainty related to customer acceptance exists or the contract duration is relatively short, we use the completed-contract method. revenues from software license fees are recognized when all of the following criteria are met: the written agreement is executed; the software is delivered; the license fee is fixed and determinable; collectibility of the license fee is probable; and if applicable, when vendor-specific objective evidence exists to allocate the total 45 table of contents license fee to elements of multiple-element arrangements, including post-contract customer support. when contracts contain multiple elements wherein vendor-specific objective evidence exists for all undelivered elements, we recognize revenue for the delivered elements and defer revenue for the undelivered elements until the remaining obligations have been satisfied. if vendor-specific objective evidence does not exist for all undelivered elements, revenue for the delivered and undelivered elements is deferred until remaining obligations have been satisfied, or if the only undelivered element is post-contract customer support, revenue is recognized ratably over the support period. significant judgments and estimates are made in connection with the recognition of software license revenue, including assessments of collectibility and the fair values of deliverable elements. the amount or timing of our software license revenue may differ as a result of changes in these judgments or estimates. allowances for doubtful accounts we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. we consider the following factors when determining if collection of a fee is reasonably assured: customer credit-worthiness, past transaction history with the customer, current economic industry trends and changes in customer payment terms. if we have no previous experience with the customer, we typically obtain reports from various credit organizations to ensure that the customer has a history of paying its creditors. we may also request financial information, including financial statements or other documents (e.g., bank statements) to ensure that the customer has the means of making payment. if these factors do not indicate collection is reasonably assured, revenue is deferred until collection becomes reasonable assured, which is generally upon receipt of cash. if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, adversely affecting their ability to make payments, additional allowances would be required. we also maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of entities we have financed to make required payments. we evaluate the adequacy of allowances for doubtful finance and note receivables based on analyses of the financed entities credit-worthiness, current economic trends or market conditions, review of the entities current and projected financial and operational information, and consideration of the fair value of collateral to be received, if applicable. from time to time, we may consider third party evaluations, valuation reports or advice from investment banks. if the financial condition of the financed entities were to deteriorate, adversely affecting their ability to make payments, additional allowances would be required. valuation of intangible assets and investments our business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. the determination of the value of such intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. we assess potential impairments to intangible assets when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to intangible assets are based on operational performance of our acquired businesses, market conditions and other factors. future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that goodwill associated with our acquired businesses is impaired. any resulting impairment loss could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we hold minority strategic investments in publicly-traded companies whose share prices may be highly volatile. we record impairment charges when we believe an investment has experienced a decline that is other than temporary. the determination that a decline is other than temporary is subjective and influenced by many factors. future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of investees could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments, thereby possibly requiring impairment charges in the future. when assessing a publicly-traded investment for an other-than-temporary decline in value, we consider such factors as, among other things, how significant the decline in value is as a percentage of the original cost, how long the market value of the investment has been less than its original cost, the performance of the investee stock price in relation to the stock price of its competitors within the industry 46 table of contents and the market in general and analyst recommendations. we also review the financial statements of the investee to determine if the investee is experiencing financial difficulties. we hold minority strategic investments in private companies whose values are difficult to determine. we record impairment charges when we believe an investment has experienced a decline that is other than temporary. the determination that a decline is other than temporary is subjective and influenced by many factors. future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of investees could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments, thereby possibly requiring impairment charges in the future. when assessing investments in private companies for an other-than temporary decline in value, we consider such factors as, among other things, the share price from the investee latest financing round, the performance of the investee in relation to its own operating targets and its business plan, the investee revenue and cost trends, the liquidity and cash position, including its cash burn rate and market acceptance of the investee products and services. from time to time, we may consider third party evaluations, valuation reports or advice from investment banks. we also consider new products/services that the investee may have forthcoming, any significant news that has been released specific to the investee or the investee competitors and/or industry and the outlook of the overall industry in which the investee operates. income taxes our income tax provision is based on calculations and assumptions that will be subject to examination by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities. we regularly assess the potential outcomes of these examinations in determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. should the actual results differ from our estimates, we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. tax law and rate changes are reflected in the income tax provision in the period in which such changes are enacted. since we believe it is more likely than not that deductions from future employee stock option exercises will exceed future taxable income, we have provided a valuation allowance through equity on substantially all of our net deferred tax assets. we consider estimated future taxable income and on-going tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance. we can only use our capital losses and capital loss carrybacks or carryforwards to offset capital gains. we have developed tax planning strategies to generate future capital gains sufficient to offset the capital losses that we have incurred through fiscal 2002. any additional capital losses in future years may require us to set up a valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets through our statement of operations if we are unable to generate sufficient future capital gains to offset these additional capital losses through our tax planning strategies. we consider the operating earnings of non-united states subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the united states. no provision has been made for united states federal and state, or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. should we have to repatriate foreign earnings, we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. litigation we are currently involved in certain legal proceedings. we estimate the range of liability related to pending litigation where the amount and range of loss can be estimated. we record our best estimate of a loss when the loss is considered probable. where a liability is probable and there is a range of estimated loss, we record the minimum estimated liability related to the claim. as additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and revise our estimates. revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could materially impact our results of operations. strategic investments and financing our qsi segment makes strategic investments to promote the worldwide adoption of cdma products and services for wireless voice and internet data communications. in general, we enter into strategic 47 table of contents relationships with cdma carriers and developers of innovative technologies or products for the wireless communications industry. as part of the agreement to sell our infrastructure equipment business to ericsson in 1999, we have provided equipment financing to customers of ericsson on a shared basis with respect to ericsson sale of cdma infrastructure in brazil, mexico and elsewhere. our qsi segment selects and manages strategic investments in early stage companies and, from time to time, venture funds or incubators, to support the adoption of cdma and use of the wireless internet. most of our strategic investments entail a high degree of risk and will not become liquid until more than one year from the date of investment, if at all. to the extent such investments become liquid and meet strategic objectives, we attempt to make regular periodic sales that are recognized in investment (expense) income. we may reduce or suspend the planned sale of these investments if and when market conditions decline. we regularly monitor and evaluate the realizable value of our investments in both marketable and private securities. if events and circumstances indicate that a decline in the value of these assets has occurred and is other than temporary, we will record a charge to investment (expense) income. during fiscal 2002, we recognized $230 million in charges related to other-than-temporary losses on marketable and private securities. in some cases, we make strategic investments in early stage companies which require us to consolidate or record our equity in the losses of those companies. the consolidation of these losses can adversely affect our financial results until we exit from or reduce our exposure to the investments. from time to time, we may accept equity interests in a licensee as consideration for a portion or all of the license fees payable under our cdma license agreements. we record license fee revenues based on the fair values of the equity instruments received, if determinable. the measurement date for determination of fair value is the earlier of the date on which the parties establish a commitment to perform or the date at which the performance is complete. the evaluation procedures used to determine fair value include, but are not limited to, examining the current market price for the shares if the licensee is publicly traded, examining recent rounds of financing and the licensee business plan if not publicly traded, and performing other due diligence procedures. we account for the equity received using apb 18 or fas 115, as appropriate. this program will not affect the licensees obligations to pay royalties under their cdma license agreements. the amount of cash consideration and the timing of revenue recognition vary depending on the terms of each agreement. as of september 30, 2002, nine licensees have participated in this program. we recognized $6 million and $7 million of revenue in fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively, and no revenue in fiscal 2000 related to equity received as consideration for license fees. velocom, inc. on november 29, 2001, we forgave $119 million under our debt facility with velocom, inc. (velocom), an investor in v sper holding. we also converted our remaining $56 million convertible promissory note into equity securities of velocom (the velocom exchange) in conjunction with our acquisition of v sper holding. the velocom exchange increased our equity interest in velocom to 49.9%. we use the equity method to account for our investment in velocom. at september 30, 2002, our investment in velocom was $33 million, net of our equity in velocom losses. v sper holding, ltd. in fiscal 1999, we acquired an approximate 16% ownership interest in v sper sao paulo s.a. and v sper s.a. (the v sper operating companies or collectively, v sper). the v sper operating companies were formed by a consortium of investors to provide fixed wireless and wireline telephone services in the northern, northeast and eastern regions of brazil and in the state of sao paulo. in addition, we extended long-term financing to the v sper operating companies related to our financing arrangement with ericsson. on november 13, 2001, we consummated a series of transactions as part of an overall financial restructuring (the restructuring) of the v sper operating companies. pursuant to the restructuring, we committed to invest $266 million, and velocom committed to invest $80 million, in a newly formed holding company called v sper holding. v sper holding acquired certain liabilities of the v sper operating companies from their vendors for $135 million and the issuance of warrants to purchase an approximate 7% interest in v sper holding, and the vendors released in full any claims that 48 table of contents they might have against us, velocom, the v sper operating companies and other related parties arising from or related to the acquired liabilities. in a series of related transactions, v sper holding agreed to contribute the acquired liabilities to the v sper operating companies in exchange for equity securities and to cancel the contributed liabilities. at september 30, 2002, we directly owned 72% of the issued and outstanding equity of v sper holding, and we indirectly owned an additional 11.9% of v sper holding through our ownership interest in velocom, totaling an 83.9% direct and indirect interest. the purchase price allocation, based on the estimated fair values of acquired assets and liabilities assumed, included $307 million for property, plant and equipment, $39 million for licenses, and $31 million for other intangible assets. property, plant and equipment are depreciated over useful lives ranging from 2 to 18 years. licenses and other intangible assets are amortized over their useful lives of 18 years and 3 to 18 years, respectively. when we obtained the controlling interest in v sper holding, accounting principles board opinion no. 18, the equity method of accounting for investments in common stock, required that we adjust our prior period results to account for our original 16% ownership interest in the v sper operating companies, predecessors to v sper holding, using the equity method of accounting. as a result, we recorded $6 million, $150 million and $48 million of equity in losses of the v sper operating companies for fiscal 2002 (pre-acquisition), 2001 and 2000, respectively. we recorded a $59 million reduction in finance receivables, an $18 million reduction in other assets and a $77 million reduction in retained earnings at september 30, 2001. we previously recorded $121 million in asset impairment charges and other-than-temporary losses on other investments during fiscal 2001. because those charges did not exceed the losses recorded as a result of using the equity method, our net loss for fiscal 2001 increased by $29 million. we did not record any asset impairment charges or other-than-temporary losses during fiscal 2000, and as a result of using the equity method, the net income for fiscal 2000 decreased by $48 million. in july 2002, a group of brazilian mobile operators sued the v sper operating companies, claiming v sper violated its stfc (fixed) license by allowing full mobility on its network. the court issued an order temporarily restraining v sper from continued sales of its limited mobility product pending the trial. this order did not impact v sper existing customers, nor sales of other types of products. subsequently, anatel, the brazilian telecommunications regulatory agency, placed a similar administrative hold on v sper until such time as it could determine whether v sper was in compliance with existing regulations. v sper successfully appealed the court order, and the temporary restraint was lifted although the underlying court case remains to be tried. additionally, v sper and anatel reviewed the issue from a technical and regulatory standpoint, and the parties reached an agreement which allows v sper to resume sales of its limited mobility product once certain technical adjustments to restrict broad mobility are implemented in v sper network. v sper has commenced making such technical adjustments and expects to complete them in all of its markets over the next few months. sales of the affected products have resumed in those areas in which the technical modifications have already been completed. during september 2002, v sper decided to replace all towers manufactured by one of its third party contractors due to the identification of structural defects, resulting in an asset impairment charge of $0.5 million. this decision was made after severe storm winds damaged and/or destroyed a number of v sper towers manufactured by that third party contractor. overall, this replacement program impacts up to 66 v sper towers, which carry antennae for less than 9% of v sper base stations. v sper towers manufactured by other parties were also inspected during this process and found to be in proper condition. replacements have begun for the most critical towers, and all affected towers are expected to be replaced by march 2003. v sper has not experienced and does not expect to experience any appreciable service degradation during this replacement process. v sper also is seeking to complete a tower sale-leaseback of a portion of its tower sites by december 31, 2002, including the defective towers, pursuant to which the purchasing party would assume all further liability for the purchased towers and fulfill replacement construction obligations. v sper expects the tower sale-leaseback arrangement, which includes the cost of replacing the defective towers, to provide net cash inflows during calendar 2002. 49 table of contents in september 2002, anatel issued resolution 314, which modifies certain current telecommunications regulations. as part of this resolution and prior resolutions, v sper will be required to vacate its current spectrum in the 1900mhz frequency (analogous to united states band a/ d) in the coming years to enable the frequency to be allotted to future universal mobile telecommunications system (umts) license holders. in return, v sper has been assigned new 1900mhz frequencies (analogous to united states pcs band c). pursuant to resolution 314, upon completion of up-banding of its network, v sper would be permitted to utilize the new 1900mhz frequencies for its primary allocation for fixed wireless services as well as to apply for permission to use those frequencies for full mobility services offered under an smp (mobile) license. such secondary use of the new 1900 mhz frequencies for smp (mobile) services would require v sper to either obtain its own smp license(s) or to enter into an arrangement with an smp license holder whereby cdma mobility at 1900mhz would be offered by the license holder utilizing v sper up-banded infrastructure. significant costs, constraints and hurdles exist with respect to accomplishing these objectives, including v sper or another party ability to acquire the necessary smp license(s), uncertainty whether and to what extent applicable brazilian telecommunications regulations would require v sper to build out additional infrastructure in another frequency band in order to offer smp (mobile) services, the cost of up-banding v sper cdma radio interface equipment, and uncertainty whether reimbursement for such costs can be obtained from future umts license holder(s). on november 19, 2002, we won bids to acquire mobile licenses in the state of sao paulo (excluding sao paulo metro), the state of minas gerais, and in the northeast region of brazil (license areas 2, 4, and 10, respectively). the new mobile licenses cover areas with a combined population in excess of 64 million. the mobile licenses overlap with approximately 47% of v sper holding existing wireless local loop areas. none of the mobile licenses cover an area outside of v sper holding current coverage areas. approximately $8 million of the approximate $83 million total purchase price is payable by december 19, 2002. the remaining $75 million brazilian real-denominated obligation is financed by the brazilian government at an interest rate of 12%, plus an adjustment for inflation, payable in six equal annual installments. the first such installment payment is due in 36 months. access to long-term funding sources to fund growth is a critical issue for v sper. we continue to seek strategic partners and/or acquirers to participate in this process. we continue to invest in v sper to ensure the establishment of cdma-based systems and to provide cdma coverage and roaming possibilities to as many regions throughout brazil as possible. the investment will help us grow our revenues from royalties and from the sale of integrated circuits to phone manufacturers. in other words, our return on our investment in v sper is not limited to a v sper ownership interest, but also includes indirect revenues, including cdma licensing revenues and qct integrated circuit sales from third party suppliers to v sper. further, the v sper business plan, similar to other start-up wireless operators, indicates that we should receive a return on our investment in the long-run despite losses in the initial years. the v sper operating companies expect to incur operating losses and negative cash flows from operations through calendar 2003 as they expand operations and enter new markets, even if and after they achieve positive cash flows from operations in the initial operating markets. v sper expects to commercially launch cdma2000 1xev-do services in december 2002. to date no long-term funding commitments from other sources have been secured, and it is not clear whether future commitments from outside parties will be available. furthermore, important regulatory and business issues have yet to be resolved. if these issues cannot be resolved in a prompt and reasonable manner, risks related to v sper may increase, and we may incur significant losses. specifically, if v sper is unable to offer converged services, which includes full mobility, either by itself and/or through other parties utilizing v sper cdma network, we may need to write down v sper long-lived assets. in that management believes there is currently a regulatory path to mobility and several partnership and/or other potential means under which v sper could offer mobile services, we believe that the assets are recoverable at this time. pegaso telecomunicaciones, s.a. de c.v. we have various financing arrangements, including a bridge loan facility, an equipment loan facility and an interim loan facility, with pegaso comunicaciones y sistemas s.a. de c.v., a wholly owned subsidiary of pegaso telecomunicaciones, s.a. de c.v., a cdma wireless operating company in mexico (collectively 50 table of contents referred to as pegaso). on september 10, 2002, telef nica m viles (telef nica) acquired a 65% controlling interest in pegaso (the close). the bridge facility was payable in full on october 31, 2001, was in default and was subject to a forbearance agreement at september 30, 2002. at september 30, 2002, $413 million was outstanding under the bridge loan facility, net of deferred interest and unearned fees. we stopped recognizing interest on the bridge loan facility effective at the beginning of the fourth fiscal quarter of 2001. pegaso paid $435 million in full satisfaction of the bridge loan facility on november 8, 2002 (the bridge payment). the equipment loan facility and related financing were in default and subject to a forbearance agreement at september 30, 2002. at september 30, 2002, $318 million was outstanding under the equipment loan facility, net of deferred interest and unearned fees. the equipment loan facility was payable through december 31, 2007 and bears interest at the london interbank offered rate (libor) plus 4.5% (or libor plus 6.5% when in default). we stopped recognizing interest on the equipment loan facility and related financing effective at the beginning of the fourth fiscal quarter of 2001. the terms of the equipment loan facility and related financing were modified, retroactive to september 10, 2002, upon receipt of the bridge payment and the satisfaction of other conditions. we will be required to use approximately $139 million of the bridge loan proceeds to purchase outstanding vendor debt owed by pegaso to other lenders. financing related to the equipment loan facility in the amount of $4 million will be payable in march 2003. the remaining equipment loan facility, including the acquired vendor debt, will be payable quarterly starting in march 2006 through december 2008 and will bear interest at libor plus 1% for two years, libor plus 3% for the next three years and libor plus 6% thereafter. we recognized $0.5 million in interest income on the equipment loan facility during fiscal 2002 from the close through fiscal year end at libor plus 1%. during fiscal 2002, we provided to pegaso $65 million of interim financing, including $5 million in capitalized fees, and $65 million of additional interim financing. prior to the close, a pegaso shareholder purchased $25 million and $23 million participations in the interim and additional interim finance receivables, respectively, from us, and at close, converted those portions of the interim and additional interim financings into equity in pegaso. at september 30, 2002, $40 million and $42 million were outstanding under the interim and additional interim facilities, respectively. the interim and additional interim financing commitments were cancelled at close, and the interim and additional interim finance receivables were repaid in full with interest on october 10, 2002. also in connection with the close, telef nica paid $9 million to us in consideration for warrants to acquire equity in pegaso at close, and pegaso paid $12 million to us in october 2002 related to certain fees and expense reimbursements. as a result of the close, we recognized a total of $9 million in interest income in fiscal 2002. at september 30, 2002, finance and other receivables from pegaso totaled $821 million, net of $45 million in deferred interest income that will be amortized over the remaining term of the equipment loan facility as an adjustment to yield. we received $90 million of this amount in october 2002 and an additional $295 million when the bridge payment was made in november 2002, excluding the $139 million portion of the bridge payment that will be used to acquire vendor debt. after receipt of the bridge payment, $436 million of the september 30, 2002 finance receivables remains, net of deferred interest. in the event that pegaso were to initiate the commercialization of gsm or tdma services in its spectrum, pegaso would be obliged to prepay $285 million of that amount. telefonica has recently indicated its intention to deploy gsm in mexico. our aggregate commitments to provide additional long-term financing to pegaso under our arrangements with ericsson were $105 million as of september 30, 2002, subject to pegaso meeting certain conditions. of this amount, $9 million was cancelled when pegaso made the bridge payment, and the remaining $96 million is no longer available to pegaso as a result of a series of events that occurred in november 2002. we also had $4 million in other financing commitments to pegaso as of september 30, 2002 that were cancelled when pegaso made the bridge payment. pegaso is at an early stage of development and may not be able to compete successfully. competitors in mexico have greater financial resources and more established operations than pegaso. as is normal for early 51 table of contents stage wireless operators, pegaso is experiencing significant losses and negative cash flows from operations. based on current information and available evidence, including the acquisition of pegaso by telef nica, we believe that we will ultimately be able to collect the remaining long-term financing from pegaso. failure to collect our finance receivables could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. leap wireless international inc. in fiscal 2000, we purchased 308,000 units of leap wireless international inc. (leap wireless) senior discount notes with detachable warrants for $150 million. the notes mature in april 2010 and bear interest at 14.5% payable beginning in 2005. in addition, we hold 489,000 shares of leap wireless common stock and a warrant to purchase 3,375,000 shares of common stock issued to us in connection with our spin-off of leap wireless in september 1998. during fiscal 2002, we determined that declines in the market values of our investments in leap wireless were other than temporary, as the market values of the investments had declined significantly during our third quarter of fiscal 2002 as a result of unfavorable developments in leap wireless business. as a result, we recorded $162 million and $18 million in other-than-temporary losses on marketable securities for the notes and stock, respectively, during fiscal 2002. we also recorded $59 million in losses related to changes in the fair values of leap wireless derivative investments for fiscal 2002. the remaining recorded values of leap wireless investments totaled $1 million at september 30, 2002. under the terms of our senior secured credit facility with leap wireless, we are committed to fund up to $125 million in connection with leap wireless bid for pcs spectrum licenses in the fcc auction no. 35, however it appears unlikely that leap wireless will be able to use this credit facility. see notes to consolidated financial statements, note 11 commitments and contingencies. inquam ltd in october 2000, we agreed to invest $200 million in the convertible preferred shares of inquam limited (inquam). inquam was formed to acquire, own, develop and manage wireless communications systems, either directly or indirectly, with the primary intent of deploying cdma-based technology. at september 30, 2002, our investment in inquam was $114 million, net of equity in losses, and $27 million of the equity funding commitment was outstanding. inquam management expects to meet certain operational milestones necessary for expansion of inquam cdma operations during 2003. in addition, inquam management expects to raise additional funds over the next 12 months required for inquam to realize the full value of its current operations. remaining funding commitments from us and another investor are expected to be exhausted by march 2003. total additional funding required by inquam for calendar 2003 is estimated to be between $175 million and $195 million. if new investors cannot be found or should existing investors decide not to provide additional funding, or if inquam does not promptly meet certain operational milestones necessary for expansion, inquam growth potential and the value of our investment in inquam may be negatively affected. fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 total revenues for fiscal 2002 were $3,040 million, compared to $2,680 million for fiscal 2001. revenues from samsung, kyocera, and lg electronics, customers of both qct and qtl, comprised an aggregate of 15%, 14% and 11% of total consolidated revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2002. in fiscal 2001, revenues from samsung, kyocera, and lg electronics, comprised an aggregate of 14%, 12% and 10% of total consolidated revenues, respectively. the percentages for kyocera included 3% and 4% in fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively, related to services provided to kyocera by employees from our terrestrial-based cdma wireless consumer phone business which was sold to kyocera in february 2000. revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2002 were $2,204 million, compared to $1,908 million for fiscal 2001. revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2002 included $125 million related to the consolidation of v sper holding effective in november 2001 and $8 million related to the globalstar business. revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2001 included $54 million related to globalstar. excluding v sper holding and globalstar, revenues from sales of equipment and services increased by $217 million. revenues from sales of equipment and services increased $218 million in 52 table of contents our integrated circuits business, primarily due to an increase in unit shipments of msm integrated circuits, and the effect of the change in product mix toward the higher end devices utilizing our 3g cdma2000 1x integrated circuits products. software development services revenues related to the qchat licensing agreement increased $34 million. revenues from licensing and royalty fees for fiscal 2002 were $836 million, compared to $772 million for fiscal 2001. qtl segment revenues from royalties paid by third parties increased $64 million. cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2002 was $1,137 million, compared to $1,035 million for fiscal 2001. cost of revenues for fiscal 2002 included $183 million related to the consolidation of v sper holding and $11 million related to our on-going obligation to globalstar. cost of revenues for fiscal 2001 included $129 million related to globalstar. excluding v sper holding and globalstar, cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues was 32% for fiscal 2002, compared to 35% for fiscal 2001. the margin improvement in fiscal 2002 was primarily due to the change in product mix toward the higher end devices utilizing our cdma2000 1x integrated circuits products and the increase in revenues from royalties in the qtl segment. cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues may fluctuate in future quarters depending on the mix of products sold and services provided, royalties and license fees earned, competitive pricing, new product introduction costs and other factors. for fiscal 2002, research and development expenses were $452 million or 15% of revenues, compared to $415 million or 15% of revenues for fiscal 2001. the dollar increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to $41 million in increased integrated circuit product initiatives to support high-speed wireless internet access and multimode, multi-band, multi-network products including cdmaone, cdma2000 1x/1xev-do, gsm/ gprs, wcdma and position location technologies and $14 million in increased qwbs research and development initiatives, partially offset by a $29 million reduction of development efforts related to the globalstar business. for fiscal 2002, selling, general and administrative expenses were $509 million or 17% of revenues, compared to $367 million or 14% of revenues for fiscal 2001. selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2002 included $107 million related to the consolidation of v sper holding. excluding v sper holding, selling, general and administrative expenses comprised 14% of revenues. the dollar increase was primarily due to a $33 million increase in marketing and support efforts related to products and services of our qis division, including the brew product, $23 million associated with the expansion of our integrated circuit customer base and international business development activities, particularly in china, and $13 million resulting from the consolidation of wireless knowledge, inc. (wireless knowledge), partially offset by a $22 million reduction in support efforts related to the globalstar business and a $14 million reduction in bad debt expense. amortization of goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets was $259 million for fiscal 2002, compared to $255 million in fiscal 2001. amortization charges were primarily related to the acquisition of snaptrack in march 2000. for fiscal 2002, asset impairment and related charges were less than $1 million, compared to $518 million of such charges in fiscal 2001. asset impairment and related charges during fiscal 2001 were comprised primarily of $519 million in charges resulting from management determination that certain assets related to the globalstar business were impaired. for fiscal 2002, other operating expenses were $9 million, compared to $51 million in fiscal 2001. other operating expenses for fiscal 2002 resulted from the write down of a note receivable from a development stage cdma carrier. other operating expenses for fiscal 2001 were comprised of a $62 million arbitration decision against us, offset by $11 million in other income related to the irrevocable transfer of a portion of an fcc auction discount voucher to a third party. interest expense was $26 million for fiscal 2002, compared to $10 million for fiscal 2001. interest expense for fiscal 2002 was primarily related to the long-term debt of v sper holding. interest expense for fiscal 2001 was primarily related to interest charges resulting from the arbitration decision made against us. 53 table of contents net investment expense was $186 million for fiscal 2002 compared to $317 million for fiscal 2001. the change was primarily comprised as follows (in millions): years ended september 30, 2002 2001 change interest income: corporate $ 102 $ 135 $ (33 ) qsi 33 108 (75 ) net realized gains on investments: corporate 11 (11 ) qsi 2 59 (57 ) other-than-temporary losses on marketable securities (206 ) (147 ) (59 ) other-than-temporary losses on other investments (24 ) (51 ) 27 change in fair values of derivative investments (58 ) (243 ) 185 minority interest in loss (income) of consolidated subsidiaries 52 (4 ) 56 equity in losses of investees (87 ) (185 ) 98 $ (186 ) $ (317 ) $ 131 the decline in interest income on corporate cash and marketable debt securities was a result of lower interest rates. the decline in qsi interest income was a result of the cessation of interest income recognition on pegaso debt facilities starting in the fourth fiscal quarter of fiscal 2001 and on leap wireless bonds starting in the third quarter of fiscal 2002. the other-than-temporary losses on marketable securities during fiscal 2002 primarily related to $162 million and $18 million in losses on our investments in leap wireless bonds and common stock, respectively. we determined that the declines in fair values were other than temporary, as the market values of the bond and common stock had significantly declined during our third quarter of fiscal 2002 as a result of unfavorable developments in leap wireless business. the other-than-temporary losses on marketable securities during fiscal 2001 primarily related to a $134 million loss on our investment in netzero, inc., which subsequently completed a merger with juno online services, inc. and became united online, inc. the change in fair values of derivative instruments primarily resulted from $59 million in losses resulting from declines in the price of leap wireless common stock, which reduced the fair values of our warrants to acquire leap wireless common stock. the warrants had insignificant value at september 30, 2002. equity in losses of investees decreased as a result of the consolidation of v sper holding effective november 13, 2001, as these losses are now included in operations. for fiscal 2002 there were no other non-operating charges, compared to $167 million in fiscal 2001. other non-operating charges in fiscal 2001 were primarily comprised of a $120 million write-down of the note receivable from velocom to its fair value and $58 million in write-downs of recorded values of a note receivable from globalstar and warrants to acquire partnership interests in globalstar to their estimated fair values. income tax expense was $101 million for fiscal 2002, compared to $105 million for fiscal 2001. the annual effective tax rate was 22% for fiscal 2002, compared to a negative 23% rate for fiscal 2001. the annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2002 was lower than the statutory rate due to the reduction of deferred tax assets and the related valuation allowance that was previously charged to tax expense, partially offset by foreign losses for which we are not recording a tax benefit. the fiscal 2001 effective tax rate was the result of pre-tax losses for which no tax benefit was recorded and foreign tax expense. the annual effective tax rate on profits for fiscal 2002 cannot be meaningfully compared to the effective tax rate on losses for the prior fiscal year. we recorded an $18 million loss, net of taxes, in fiscal 2001 as the net cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles at september 30, 2000. the cumulative effect of the adoption of sab 101 was a $147 million loss, net of taxes, offset by a $129 million gain, net of taxes, resulting from the cumulative effect of the adoption of fas 133. the gain resulting from the adoption of fas 133 related primarily to the 54 table of contents unrealized gain on a warrant to purchase 4,500,000 shares of leap wireless common stock issued to us in connection with our spin-off of leap wireless in september 1998. fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000 total revenues for fiscal 2001 were $2,680 million, compared to $3,197 million for fiscal 2000. revenue from samsung, kyocera, and lg, customers of both qct and qtl, comprised an aggregate of 14%, 12% and 10% of total consolidated revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2001. in fiscal 2000, samsung accounted for 11% of total consolidated revenues. revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2001 were $1,908 million, compared to $2,526 million for fiscal 2000. revenues from sales of equipment and services for fiscal 2000 included $419 million in revenue related to the terrestrial-based cdma wireless consumer phone business which was sold in february 2000. excluding the revenue of the business sold in fiscal 2000, revenues from sales of equipment and services decreased by $199 million in fiscal 2001. the decrease was primarily related to a $310 million decline in revenues related to the business with globalstar, offset by a $107 million increase in integrated circuit sales, largely attributed to higher unit shipments and average selling prices of msm integrated circuits, and higher csm infrastructure integrated circuit revenues and a $24 million increase in qwi revenue due to the implementation of sab 101 in fiscal 2001. revenues from licensing and royalty fees for fiscal 2001 were $772 million, compared to $671 million for fiscal 2000. the increase was primarily related to a $149 million increase in royalties and license fees and a $16 million increase in software revenues, offset by a $64 million decrease due to the implementation of sab 101 in fiscal 2001. cost of equipment and services revenues for fiscal 2001 was $1,035 million, compared to $1,507 million for fiscal 2000. total cost of revenues for fiscal 2000 included $433 million in cost of revenues related to the terrestrial-based cdma wireless consumer phone business which was sold in february 2000. excluding the cost of revenues of the business sold in fiscal 2000, total cost of revenues decreased by $39 million in fiscal 2001, consistent with the decrease in revenues. cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues was 39% for fiscal 2001 and 2000. cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues may fluctuate in future quarters depending on the mix of products sold and services provided, royalties and license fees earned, competitive pricing, new product introduction costs and other factors. for fiscal 2001, research and development expenses were $415 million or 15% of revenues, compared to $340 million or 11% of revenues for fiscal 2000. the dollar and percentage increases in research and development expenses were primarily due to $101 million in increased integrated circuit product initiatives to support high-speed wireless internet access and multimode, multi-band, multi-network products including cdmaone, cdma2000 1x/1xev-do, gsm/ gprs, wcdma and position location technologies, offset by a $44 million decrease in terrestrial-based cdma wireless consumer phone products research and development as a result of exiting this business in february 2000. in addition, the percentage increase is attributed to a more significant reduction in revenue relative to research and development expenses as a result of the sale of the terrestrial-based cdma wireless consumer phone business in february 2000. for fiscal 2001, selling, general and administrative expenses were $367 million or 14% of revenues, compared to $343 million or 11% of revenues for fiscal 2000. the dollar and percentage increases in selling, general and administrative expenses from fiscal 2000 were primarily due to $61 million associated with the expansion of international business activities in china, japan, south korea and europe and trade show expenses related to the expansion of the integrated circuit customer base and product portfolio and $21 million related to the introduction of products and services by our qis division, including our brew product, offset by a $67 million decrease in expenses for terrestrial-based cdma wireless consumer phone products as a result of the sale of the business in february 2000. in addition, the percentage increase is attributed to a more significant reduction in revenue relative to selling, general and administrative expenses as a result of the sale of the terrestrial-based cdma wireless consumer phone business in february 2000. 55 table of contents amortization of goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets was $255 million for fiscal 2001, compared to $146 million in fiscal 2000. for fiscal 2001, no purchased in-process technology was recorded, compared to $60 million in fiscal 2000. the increase in amortization in fiscal 2001 and the purchased in-process technology charge in fiscal 2000 resulted from the acquisition of snaptrack, inc. (snaptrack) in march 2000. for fiscal 2001, asset impairment and related charges were $518 million, compared to $46 million for fiscal 2000. asset impairment and related charges during fiscal 2001 were comprised primarily of $519 million in charges resulting from management determination that certain assets related to the globalstar business were impaired. asset impairment and related charges during fiscal 2000 were primarily related to the sale of the terrestrial-based cdma wireless consumer phone business in february 2000. for fiscal 2001, other operating expenses were $51 million, compared to $32 million in fiscal 2000. other operating expenses for fiscal 2001 were comprised of a $62 million arbitration decision against us, offset by $11 million in other income related to the irrevocable transfer of a portion of an fcc auction discount voucher to a third-party. other operating expenses during fiscal 2000 were comprised primarily of employee termination and other costs related to the sale of the terrestrial-based cdma wireless consumer phone business in february 2000. interest expense was $10 million for fiscal 2001, compared to $5 million for fiscal 2000. the increase was primarily related to interest charges resulting from an arbitration decision against us, offset by lower interest expense resulting from decreased bank borrowings. net investment expense was $317 million for fiscal 2001, compared to net investment income of $446 million for fiscal 2000. the change was primarily comprised as follows (in millions): years ended september 30, 2001 2000 change interest income: corporate $ 135 $ 108 $ 27 qsi 108 137 (29 ) net realized gains on investments: corporate 11 11 qsi 59 270 (211 ) other-than-temporary losses on marketable securities (147 ) (147 ) other-than-temporary losses on other investments (51 ) (51 ) change in fair values of derivative investments (243 ) (243 ) minority interest in income of consolidated subsidiaries (4 ) (6 ) 2 equity in losses of investees (185 ) (63 ) (122 ) $ (317 ) $ 446 $ (763 ) the increase in interest income on corporate cash and marketable debt securities was a result of higher average interest-bearing balances. the decline in qsi interest income was primarily a result of the cessation of interest income recognition on globalstar finance receivables in fiscal 2001. the other-than-temporary losses on marketable securities during fiscal 2001 primarily related to a $134 million loss on our investments in netzero, inc, which subsequently completed a merger with juno online services, inc. and became united online, inc. the market value of our investment in united online, inc. was $38 million as of november 22, 2002, as compared to our adjusted cost basis of $10 million. we did not record any other-than temporary losses on marketable securities during fiscal 2000. the change in fair values of derivative instruments primarily resulted from $213 million in losses related to declines in the price of leap wireless common stock, which reduced the fair values of our warrants to acquire leap wireless common stock. equity in losses of investees increased primarily as a result of an increase in the equity in losses of v sper holding in fiscal 2001. 56 table of contents there were no distributions on trust convertible preferred securities in fiscal 2001 due to the conversion of all remaining trust convertible preferred securities into common stock during fiscal 2000. we recorded $13 million in distributions for fiscal 2000. other non-operating charges were approximately $167 million in fiscal 2001, compared to $2 million in fiscal 2000. other non-operating charges in fiscal 2001 were primarily comprised of a $120 million write-down of the note receivable from velocom to its fair value and $58 million in write-downs of recorded values of a note receivable from globalstar and warrants to acquire partnership interests in globalstar to their estimated fair values. income tax expense was $105 million for fiscal 2001, compared to $527 million for fiscal 2000. the annual effective tax rate was negative 23% for fiscal 2001, compared to a 46% rate for fiscal 2000. the estimated annual effective tax rate was negative primarily as a result of foreign taxes paid for which it is more likely than not we will not receive a tax benefit. the difference in the tax rate from the prior year is primarily due to the loss for fiscal 2001 resulting from certain asset impairment and related charges. we have provided a valuation allowance on substantially all of our deferred tax assets because of uncertainty regarding their realizability due to the expectation that deductions from future employee stock option exercises will exceed future taxable income. our net deferred tax assets increased by $631 million in fiscal 2001, and the resulting increase in the valuation allowance was reflected in part as an increase to the tax expense and in part as a reduction of stockholders equity. the total expense related to the increase in the valuation allowance was $185 million. we recorded an $18 million loss, net of taxes, in fiscal 2001 as the net cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle at september 30, 2000. the cumulative effect of the adoption of sab 101 was a $147 million loss, net of taxes, offset by a $129 million gain, net of taxes, resulting from the cumulative effect of the adoption of fas 133. the gain resulting from the adoption of fas 133 related primarily to the unrealized gain on a warrant to purchase 4,500,000 shares of leap wireless common stock issued to us in connection with our spin-off of leap wireless in september 1998. our segment results for fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 qualcomm cdma technologies segment (qct) qct segment revenues for fiscal 2002 were $1,591 million, compared to $1,365 million for fiscal 2001. earnings before taxes for fiscal 2002 were $441 million, compared to $306 million for fiscal 2001. revenues and earnings before taxes increased primarily due to an increase in unit shipments of msm integrated circuits and the effect of the change in product mix toward the higher end devices utilizing our cdma2000 1x products. approximately 65 million msm integrated circuits were sold during fiscal 2002, compared to approximately 58 million for fiscal 2001. approximately 10 million csm infrastructure integrated circuits equivalent voice channels were sold during fiscal 2002, compared to approximately 9 million for fiscal 2001. both research and development and selling and marketing expenses were $22 million higher for fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001 primarily associated with new integrated circuit product and technology initiatives to support high-speed wireless internet access and multi-band, multimode, multi-network products including cdmaone, cdma2000 1x/1xev-do, gsm/ gprs, wcdma and position location technologies. qct inventories decreased by 27% during fiscal 2002 primarily as a result of strong demand for 1x products across our customer base and improved component availability. qualcomm technology licensing segment (qtl) qtl segment revenues for fiscal 2002 were $847 million, compared to $782 million for fiscal 2001. revenues from royalties paid by third party licensees were $725 million in fiscal 2002, compared to $661 million in fiscal 2001. revenues from license fees were $55 million in fiscal 2002, compared to $67 million in fiscal 2001. earnings before taxes for fiscal 2002 were $756 million, compared to $706 million for fiscal 2001. the increase in revenues and earnings before taxes was primarily due to an increase in sales of cdma products by licensees resulting from higher demand for cdma products across all major regions of 57 table of contents cdma deployment. during fiscal 2002, we recognized $6 million in revenue related to equity received as consideration for license fees, compared to $7 million in fiscal 2001. qualcomm wireless internet segment (qwi) qwi segment revenues for fiscal 2002 were $439 million, compared to $426 million for fiscal 2001. losses before taxes for fiscal 2002 were $9 million, compared to earnings before taxes of $33 million for fiscal 2001. revenues increased primarily due to an increase in software development and services revenues related to our brew products and qchat licensing agreement. earnings before taxes decreased primarily due to a $35 million increase in our development, support and marketing efforts related to products and services of our qis division, including the brew product and a $14 million increase in qwbs research and development expenditures. we shipped approximately 46,000 omnitracs and other related communications systems during fiscal 2002, compared to approximately 43,000 in fiscal 2001. qualcomm strategic initiatives segment (qsi) qsi segment revenues for fiscal 2002 were $126 million, primarily related to the consolidation of v sper holding. qsi segment losses before taxes for fiscal 2002 were $507 million, compared to $1,125 million for fiscal 2001. the decrease in losses was primarily due to $568 million in charges incurred in fiscal 2001 related to globalstar. during fiscal 2002, we recorded a $130 million loss, net of minority interest, due to the consolidation of v sper holding and $30 million of equity losses in the v sper operating companies (pre-acquisition) and velocom, as compared with $150 million of equity losses for the v sper operating companies in fiscal 2001. during fiscal 2002, we recorded $180 million in other-than-temporary losses on leap wireless marketable securities, compared to an $11 million realized gain in fiscal 2001. we also recorded $59 million in losses related to changes in the fair values of leap wireless derivative investments in fiscal 2002, compared to $213 million in losses in fiscal 2001. losses on leap wireless derivative investments resulted from declines in the market price of leap wireless common stock during those fiscal years. during fiscal 2001, we recorded a $120 million charge to write down a note receivable from velocom to its fair value as a result of the reorganization of the v sper operating companies initiated during fiscal 2001. liquidity and capital resources cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $3,176 million at september 30, 2002, an increase of $596 million from september 30, 2001. the increase during fiscal 2002 was primarily the result of $968 million in cash provided by operating activities, $120 million in net proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans, $16 million in collections on notes receivable, $10 million in proceeds received from v sper holding minority interest shareholders and $9 million in proceeds received from the sale of other investments, partially offset by $321 million in cash used for other investments and acquisitions, $142 million in capital expenditures, an $81 million decrease in the fair values of marketable securities and $6 million of cash used to purchase our shares. we expect v sper holding to require approximately $60 to $70 million in cash funding during the first six months of fiscal 2003. accounts receivable increased by 4% during fiscal 2002. the increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to an increase in revenues and the consolidation of v sper holding receivables, partially offset by the timing of cash receipts for royalty receivables. excluding v sper holding receivables and revenues, days sales outstanding, using a daily three month rolling average, were 53 days at september 30, 2002 compared to 72 days at september 30, 2001. the change in days sales outstanding is consistent with the increase in revenue and improved cash collections resulting in the accounts receivable balance remaining relatively unchanged. we believe our current cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and cash generated from operations will satisfy our expected working and other capital requirements for the foreseeable future based on current business plans, including investments in other companies and other assets to support the growth of our business, financing for customers of cdma infrastructure products in accordance with the agreements with ericsson, financing under agreements with cdma telecommunications carriers, and other commitments. we 58 table of contents intend to continue our strategic investment activities to promote the worldwide adoption of cdma products and the growth of cdma-based wireless data and wireless internet products. as part of these investment activities, we may provide financing to facilitate the marketing and sale of cdma equipment by authorized suppliers. in the event additional needs for cash arise, we may raise additional funds from a combination of sources including potential debt and equity issuance. at september 30, 2002, our outstanding commitments included (in millions): long-term financing under ericsson arrangement (excluding pegaso) $ 368 senior credit facility with leap wireless(a) 125 pegaso: commitment to acquire long-term financing to be provided by ericsson 105 other 4 equity investments: inquam 27 other 30 other debt commitments 6 total debt and equity commitments 665 long-term purchase commitments(b) 71 operating leases(b) 124 other 3 total $ 863 (a) under the terms of our senior secured credit facility with leap wireless, we are committed to fund up to $125 million in connection with leap wireless bid for pcs spectrum licenses in the fcc auction no. 35, however it appears unlikely that leap wireless will be able to use this credit facility. see notes to consolidated financial statements, note 11 commitments and contingencies. (b) information regarding our long-term purchase commitments and operating leases at september 30, 2002 is provided in the consolidated financial statements. see notes to consolidated financial statements, note 11 commitments and contingencies. the majority of these commitments do not have fixed funding dates, and the expected funding dates cannot be forecast. at september 30, 2002, commitments to extend long-term financing to certain cdma customers of ericsson totaled approximately $473 million. the commitment to fund $346 million of this amount expires on november 6, 2003. the funding of the remaining $127 million, if it occurs, is not subject to a fixed expiration date, however, on november 12, 2002, $9 million of this commitment was cancelled. the financing commitments are subject to the cdma customers meeting conditions prescribed in the financing arrangements and, in certain cases, to ericsson also financing a portion of such sales and services. such financing is generally collateralized by the related equipment. commitments represent the maximum amounts to be financed under these arrangements; actual financing may be in lesser amounts. financing provided by us to pegaso included $203 million funded under these commitments with ericsson. financing provided by us to the v sper operating companies included $108 million funded under these commitments. all other financings made related to these commitments were repaid prior to september 30, 2002. the inquam equity investment commitment is expected to be funded by march 2003, and the remaining equity commitments are expected to be funded through fiscal 2009. our existing commitments over the next 12 months related to long-term purchase commitments (including capital expenditures), future minimum operating lease payments, capital leases and long-term debt total $70 million. we expect v sper holding to require approximately $60 to $70 million in cash funding during the first six months of fiscal 2003, including license payments. 59 table of contents in december 2001, we agreed to invest up to $200 million in exchange for up to 4% of the common shares of reliance infocomm limited (ril), formerly reliance communications limited, a wireless carrier in india. ril intends to construct and operate a cdma commercial network deploying cdma2000 1x technology to provide basic telephone services, wireless local loop (wll) with limited mobility, national long distance and international long distance services in india. our obligation to make this investment became subject to termination during fiscal 2002 because ril failed to meet certain milestones. however, we may purchase the shares upon ril completion of certain closing conditions. if we complete the investment, funding is likely to occur through september 2003. at september 30, 2002, we had not purchased any shares related to this agreement. information regarding our other financial commitments at september 30, 2002 is provided in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. see notes to consolidated financial statements, note 4 investments in other entities, note 11 commitments and contingencies and note 13 acquisitions. future accounting requirements in june 2001, the financial accounting standards board (fasb) issued statement of financial accounting standards no. 141 (fas 141), business combinations, and no. 142 (fas 142), goodwill and other intangible assets. fas 141 supersedes accounting principles board opinion (apb) no. 16, business combinations. the provisions of fas 141 (1) require that the purchase method of accounting be used for all business combinations initiated after june 30, 2001, (2) provide specific criteria for the initial recognition and measurement of intangible assets apart from goodwill, and (3) require that unamortized negative goodwill be written off immediately as an extraordinary gain instead of being deferred and amortized. fas 141 also requires that, upon adoption of fas 142, we reclassify the carrying amounts of certain intangible assets into or out of goodwill, based on certain criteria. fas 142 supersedes apb 17, intangible assets, and is effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2001. fas 142 primarily addresses the accounting for goodwill and intangible assets subsequent to their initial recognition. the provisions of fas 142 (1) prohibit the amortization of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, (2) require that goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets be tested annually for impairment (and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value of goodwill and/or indefinite-lived intangible assets may be impaired), (3) require that reporting units be identified for the purpose of assessing potential impairments of goodwill, and (4) remove the forty-year limitation on the amortization period of intangible assets that have finite lives. fas 142 requires that goodwill be tested at least annually for impairment using a two-step process. the first step (step 1) is to identify a potential impairment and, in transition, this step must be measured as of the beginning of the fiscal year. however, a company has six months from the date of adoption to complete this step. the second step of the goodwill impairment test measures the amount of the impairment loss (measured as of the beginning of the year of adoption), if any, and must be completed by the end of fiscal 2003. any impairment loss resulting from the transitional impairment tests would be reflected as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in the first quarter 2003. we will adopt the provisions of fas 142 in our first quarter of fiscal 2003. we have determined our reporting units and the amounts of goodwill, intangible assets, other assets and liabilities allocable to those reporting units and have completed our step 1 analysis. based on our step 1 analysis, the adoption of fas 142 does not have a material impact on our financial position. we will no longer record goodwill amortization starting in fiscal 2003. we recorded $248 million, $244 million and $141 million in goodwill amortization expense during fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. in august 2001, the fasb issued fas 144, accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets. fas 144 replaces fas 121, accounting for the impairment of long-lived assets and for long-lived assets to be disposed of. the fasb issued fas 144 to establish a single accounting model, based on the framework established in fas 121, as fas 121 did not address the accounting for a segment of a business accounted for as a discontinued operation under apb 30, reporting the results of operations reporting the effects of disposal of a segment of a business, and extraordinary unusual and infrequently occurring events and transactions. fas 144 also resolves significant implementation issues related to fas 121. 60 table of contents companies are required to adopt fas 144 for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2001, but early adoption is permitted. we will adopt fas 144 as of the beginning of fiscal 2003. we do not expect the adoption of fas 144 to have a material impact on our operating results and financial position. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk " --> item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk interest rate market risk. we have fixed income securities consisting of cash equivalents and investments in marketable debt securities. during fiscal 2002, we invested $300 million in diversified portfolios of non-investment grade securities managed by institutional portfolio managers, which are subject to a higher degree of default risk than our investment grade fixed income portfolios. a portion of these bonds are designated as trading securities. changes in the general level of united states interest rates can affect the principal values and yields of fixed income investments. (see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for information about investments in marketable debt securities.) finance receivables bear interest at both fixed and variable rates (see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for information about finance receivables). interest earned on certain finance receivables is at variable interest rates and is affected by changes in the general level of united states interest rates and/or libor. fair values will vary as interest rates change. we have other notes receivable from third parties included in other assets. these facilities bear interest at variable rates. interest earned on credit facilities included in other assets is affected by changes in the libor index rate, and fair value will vary as interest rates change. the following table provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for our fixed income investment portfolio, finance receivables and credit facilities in other assets, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average yield at cost and contractual interest rates for fixed income securities and finance receivables or other credit facilities, respectively, by expected maturity dates. additionally, we have assumed that our fixed income securities are similar enough to aggregate those securities for presentation purposes. interest rate sensitivity principal amount by expected maturity average interest rate (dollars in millions) no single fair 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 thereafter maturity total value fixed income securities $ 295 $ 548 $ 209 $ 61 $ 51 $ 230 $ 296 $ 1,690 $ 1,692 interest rate 4.1 % 3.6 % 3.7 % 4.8 % 6.4 % 9.3 % 4.0 % finance receivables: fixed rate $ 392 $ 2 $ 1 $ $ $ 148 $ $ 543 $ 533 interest rate 0.5 % 8.9 % 8.0 % 0.3 % variable rate (libor) $ $ $ $ 85 $ 113 $ 141 $ $ 339 $ 293 margin over libor 5.9 % 6.1 % 5.6 % notes receivable in other assets: fixed rate $ 12 $ 27 $ $ $ $ 4 $ $ 43 $ 41 interest rate 7.8 % 7.5 % 0.0 % variable rate (libor) $ 24 $ $ $ $ 1 $ 25 $ $ 50 $ 9 margin over libor 12.8 % 1.9 % 0.0 % we consolidate all assets and liabilities of the v sper operating companies, including bank loans and capital lease obligations. bank loans totaled $66 million at september 30, 2002, of which $16 million is payable in fiscal 2005 and $50 million is payable in fiscal 2006. the bank loans bear interest at variable rates, based on the certificate of deposit inter bank (cdi) rate (the libor rate equivalent in brazil) plus 1.5%. capital lease obligations totaled $42 million at september 30, 2002. the aggregate maturities on the capital 61 table of contents lease obligations over the next three years from fiscal 2003 through 2005 are $14 million, $22 million and $6 million, respectively. the capital lease obligations bear interest at fixed interest rates, ranging from 11.25% to 14.5%. the fair values of bank loans and capital lease obligations will change as interest rates change. interest expense will be affected by changes in the cdi. equity price market risk. we hold marketable securities and derivative instruments subject to equity price risk. available-for-sale equity securities and derivative instruments recorded at fair value under fas 115 and fas 133, respectively, subject us to equity price risk. the recorded values of marketable equity securities increased to $155 million at september 30, 2002 from $122 million at september 30, 2001. as of september 30, 2002, one equity position constituted approximately 71% of the fair value of the marketable securities portfolio. the recorded value of derivative instruments subject to fas 133 at september 30, 2002 was $1 million. we generally invest in companies in the high-technology industry, and typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these securities. the portfolio concentrations in specific companies and industry segments may vary over time, and changes in concentrations may affect the portfolio price volatility. we received a warrant in connection with the leap wireless spin-off to purchase leap wireless common stock at $6.11 per share. at september 30, 2002, we were entitled to purchase 3,375,000 shares of leap wireless common stock (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of our accounting policy for this instrument). the warrant remaining value at september 30, 2002 was insignificant, as compared to the $49 million value at september 2001. the estimated fair value of the warrant is directly correlated to movements in the price of the leap wireless common stock. the warrant is held for purposes other than trading. during fiscal 2002, we recorded $59 million in losses on derivative instruments, primarily related to this warrant. we strategically invest in companies in the high-technology industry, and typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these securities. during fiscal 2002 and 2001, many high-technology stocks experienced significant decreases in value, negatively affecting the fair values of our available-for-sale equity securities and derivative instruments. investment concentrations in specific companies and industry segments may vary over time, and changes in concentrations may affect the overall price volatility. a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities at september 30, 2002 would cause a corresponding 10% decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities. our strategic investments in other entities consist substantially of investments accounted for under the equity and cost methods that are predominantly closely held and not publicly traded. these investments are held for purposes other than trading. accordingly, we believe that our exposure to market risk from these investments is not material. additionally, we do not anticipate any near-term changes in the nature of our market risk exposures or in management objectives and strategies with respect to managing such exposures. foreign exchange market risk. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies. we manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, consisting primarily of forward contracts. derivative financial instruments are viewed as risk management tools and are not used for speculative or trading purposes. at september 30, 2002, no foreign currency forward contracts were outstanding. financial instruments held by consolidated subsidiaries and equity method investees which are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations, which may affect reported earnings. as a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. as a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. while we may hedge certain transactions with non-united states customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. 62 table of contents we are exposed to foreign exchange risk related to our consolidation of the v sper operating companies. we report our financial statements in u.s. dollars. the v sper operating companies account for the majority of their transactions in brazilian real, and their results are translated into u.s. dollars during and at the end of the fiscal quarter. in addition, the v sper operating companies capital lease commitments are denominated in u.s. dollars. as a result, a significant change in the value of the u.s. dollar against the brazilian real could have a material effect on the v sper operating companies and on us. a significant devaluation of the brazilian real has occurred in the past and may occur again the future. at september 30, 2002, a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar relative to the brazilian real would result in a decrease in net income of approximately $16 million for the year ended september 30, 2002. finance receivables and notes receivable from international carriers that do not use the united states dollar as their functional currencies subject us to credit risk. because our financing is dollar denominated, any significant change in the value of the dollar against the debtors functional currencies could result in an increase in the debtor cash flow requirements and could thereby affect our ability to collect our receivables. at september 30, 2002, finance receivables from international customers totaled $817 million. our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate risk discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk interest rate market risk. we have fixed income securities consisting of cash equivalents and investments in marketable debt securities. we also have diversified portfolios of non-investment grade securities managed by institutional portfolio managers, which are subject to a higher degree of default risk than our investment grade fixed income portfolios. changes in the general level of united states interest rates can affect the principal values and yields of fixed income investments. our fixed income investments have grown significantly in size and are subject to interest rate risk and credit risk. if interest rates in the general economy were to rise rapidly in a short period of time, our fixed income investments could lose value. if the general economy were to weaken significantly, the credit profile of issuers of securities held in our investment portfolios could deteriorate and our fixed income investments could lose value. we may implement investment strategies of different types with varying duration and risk/return trade-offs that do not perform well. (see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements marketable securities for information about investments in marketable debt securities.) we have finance receivables and notes receivable (included in other assets) from third parties that bear interest at both fixed and variable rates (see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements composition of certain financial statement captions for information about finance receivables). interest earned on certain finance receivables and notes is at variable interest rates and is affected by changes in the general level of united states interest rates and/or changes in the libor index. finance receivables and notes that bear interest at fixed rates could lose value if interest rates increase. the following table provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for our fixed income investment portfolio, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average yield at cost. for our finance receivables and notes receivable, the table presents contractual interest rates by expected maturity dates. additionally, we have assumed that our fixed income securities are similar enough within the specified categories to aggregate those securities for presentation purposes. 57 table of contents interest rate sensitivity principal amount by expected maturity average interest rates (dollars in millions) no single fair 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 thereafter maturity total value fixed income securities: cash and cash equivalents $ 284 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 284 $ 284 interest rate 1.1 % held-to-maturity securities $ 167 $ 20 $ 180 $ $ $ $ $ 367 $ 368 interest rate 3.4 % 1.8 % 2.0 % available-for-sale securities: investment grade $ 177 $ 701 $ 602 $ 239 $ 98 $ 20 $ 484 $ 2,321 $ 2,321 interest rate 3.0 % 2.0 % 2.4 % 2.9 % 3.3 % 7.2 % 3.2 % non-investment grade $ 11 $ 2 $ 8 $ 11 $ 41 $ 425 $ $ 498 $ 498 interest rate 8.7 % 7.7 % 9.2 % 9.6 % 8.9 % 8.3 % finance receivables: fixed rate $ 7 $ 1 $ $ $ $ 2 $ $ 10 $ 6 interest rate 8.0 % 8.0 % 0.0 % variable rate (libor) $ $ $ 49 $ 65 $ 65 $ 16 $ $ 195 $ 192 margin over libor 6.3 % 6.5 % 9.9 % 5.2 % notes receivable in other assets: fixed rate $ 37 $ $ $ $ $ 46 $ $ 83 $ 64 interest rate 7.5 % 0.0 % variable rate (libor) $ $ $ $ $ $ 56 $ $ 56 $ 6 margin over libor 0.0 % v sper-related long-term debt: wireless license fixed rate $ $ $ 17 $ 17 $ 17 $ 60 $ $ 111 $ 111 interest rate 12.0 % 12.0 % 12.0 % 12.0 % bank loans variable rate (cdi) $ 68 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 68 $ 65 margin over cdi 1.5 % default rate 12.0 % capital leases fixed rate $ 33 $ $ $ $ $ 7 $ $ 40 $ 39 interest rate 12.6 % 12.6 % variable rate (libor) $ $ $ 4 $ $ $ $ $ 4 $ 4 margin over libor 6.0 % variable rate (tr) $ 2 $ 1 $ $ $ $ $ $ 3 $ 3 margin over tr 12.0 % 12.0 % the v sper-related bank loans and $33 million of the capital lease obligations are callable by the bank creditors as a result of the failure of the v sper operating companies to make interest and certain lease payments. the v sper operating companies were charged a 2% default penalty and are being charged an additional 1% interest rate per month on the amount in default until the default is cured. the bank creditors have provided forbearance through december 15, 2003 with respect to the amounts owed under certain agreements that are in payment default. (see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements acquisitions for information about long-term debt.) the fair values of bank loans and capital lease obligations will change as interest rates change. interest expense will be affected by changes in the certificate of deposit interbank (cdi) rate. equity price market risk. we hold marketable securities and derivative instruments subject to equity price risk which are accounted for under fas 115 and fas 133. the recorded values of marketable equity securities totaled $140 million at september 30, 2003. as of september 30, 2003, one equity position constituted approximately 59% of the fair value of the marketable securities portfolio. the recorded value of derivative instruments subject to fas 133 at september 30, 2003 was $2 million. we generally invest in technology companies and typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these securities. these investments are held for purposes other 58 table of contents than trading. the portfolio concentrations in specific companies and industry segments may vary over time, and changes in concentrations may affect the portfolio price volatility. during the last three years, many technology stocks experienced significant decreases in value, negatively affecting the fair values of our available-for-sale equity securities and derivative instruments. a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities, at september 30, 2003 would cause a corresponding 10% decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities, or $14 million. our strategic investments in other entities consist substantially of investments in private early stage companies accounted for under the equity and cost methods. accordingly, we believe that our exposure to market risk from these investments is not material. additionally, we do not anticipate any near-term changes in the nature of our market risk exposures or in management objectives and strategies with respect to managing such exposures. the recorded values of these strategic investments totaled $153 million at september 30, 2003. additional information regarding our strategic investments is provided in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and operating results in this annual report. foreign exchange market risk. we manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, consisting primarily of forward contracts and options. derivative financial instruments are viewed as risk management tools and are not used for speculative or trading purposes. at september 30, 2003, no foreign currency forward contracts were outstanding. (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements the company and its significant accounting policies for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies.) financial instruments held by consolidated subsidiaries and equity method investees which are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. as a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. as a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. while we may hedge certain transactions with non-united states customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. we are exposed to foreign exchange risk related to our consolidation of the v sper operating companies. we report our financial statements in u.s. dollars. the v sper operating companies account for the majority of their transactions in brazilian real, and their results are translated into u.s. dollars during and at the end of the fiscal quarter. in addition, the v sper operating companies capital lease commitments are denominated in u.s. dollars. as a result, a significant change in the value of the u.s. dollar against the brazilian real could have a material effect on the v sper operating companies and on us. a significant devaluation of the brazilian real occurred in the past and may occur again in the future. a 10% weakening of the u.s. dollar relative to the brazilian real during fiscal 2003 would have resulted in a decrease in net income of approximately $25 million for the year ended september 30, 2003. finance receivables and notes receivable from international carriers and customers that do not use the united states dollar as their functional currencies subject us to credit risk. because our financing is u.s. dollar denominated, any significant change in the value of the u.s. dollar against the debtors functional currencies could result in an increase in the debtor cash flow requirements and could thereby affect our ability to collect our receivables. at september 30, 2003, finance and note receivables from international carriers and customers totaled $214 million, net of allowances. our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate risk discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk interest rate market risk. we have fixed income securities consisting of cash equivalents and investments in marketable debt securities. we also have diversified portfolios of non-investment grade securities managed by institutional portfolio managers, which are subject to a higher degree of default risk than our investment grade fixed income portfolios. changes in the general level of united states interest rates can affect the principal values and yields of fixed income investments. our fixed income investments have grown significantly in size and are subject to interest rate risk and credit risk. if interest rates in the general economy were to rise rapidly in a short period of time, our fixed income investments could lose value. if the general economy were to weaken significantly, the credit profile of issuers of securities held in our investment portfolios could deteriorate and our fixed income investments could lose value. we may implement investment strategies of different types with varying duration and risk/return trade-offs that do not perform well. see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements marketable securities for information about investments in marketable debt securities. we have finance receivables and notes receivable (both included in other assets) that bear interest at fixed rates. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements composition of certain financial statement captions for information about finance receivables. finance receivables and notes that bear interest at fixed rates could lose value if interest rates increase. the following table provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for our fixed income investment portfolio, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average yield at cost. for our finance receivables and notes receivable, the table presents contractual interest rates by expected maturity dates. additionally, we have assumed that our fixed income securities are similar enough within the specified categories to aggregate those securities for presentation purposes. interest rate sensitivity principal amount by expected maturity average interest rates (dollars in millions) no single fair 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter maturity total value fixed income securities: cash and cash equivalents $ 458 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 458 $ 457 interest rate 1.5 % held-to-maturity securities $ 10 $ 130 $ $ $ $ $ $ 140 $ 142 interest rate 1.5 % 1.7 % available-for-sale securities: investment grade $ 825 $ 803 $ 805 $ 59 $ 63 $ 39 $ 2,054 $ 4,648 $ 4,648 interest rate 1.9 % 2.2 % 2.3 % 2.7 % 2.1 % 2.9 % 2.0 % non-investment grade $ 1 $ 3 $ 6 $ 20 $ 61 $ 481 $ $ 572 $ 572 interest rate 1.1 % 7.0 % 8.9 % 9.7 % 8.7 % 8.5 % finance receivables in other assets $ 3 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 3 $ 2 interest rate 8.0 % notes receivable in other assets $ $ 2 $ $ $ $ 87 $ $ 89 $ 60 interest rate 0.0 % 0.0 % equity price market risk. we hold a diversified portfolio of marketable securities, equity mutual fund shares and derivative instruments subject to equity price risk. the recorded values of marketable equity securities increased to $765 million at september 30, 2004 from $140 million at september 30, 2003. the recorded value of equity mutual fund shares was $296 million at september 30, 2004. the recorded value of derivative instrument assets, mainly comprised of warrants, subject to statement of financial accounting standards no. 133 (fas 133) accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, at september 30, 2004 was $4 million. we generally invest in companies in the high-technology industry, and typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these securities. the portfolio concentrations in specific companies and industry segments may vary over time, and changes in concentrations may affect the portfolio price volatility. during the last three years, many technology stocks experienced significant decreases in value, negatively affecting the fair values of our 58 table of contents available-for-sale equity securities and derivative instruments. a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual fund shares at september 30, 2004 would cause a corresponding 10% decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities, or $106 million. our strategic investments in other entities consist substantially of investments in private early stage companies accounted for under the equity and cost methods. accordingly, we believe that our exposure to market risk from these investments is not material. additionally, we do not anticipate any near-term changes in the nature of our market risk exposures or in management objectives and strategies with respect to managing such exposures. the recorded values of these strategic investments totaled $162 million at september 30, 2004. additional information regarding our strategic investments is provided in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and operating results in this annual report. foreign exchange market risk. we manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, consisting primarily of foreign currency forward and option contracts. derivative financial instruments are viewed as risk management tools and are not used for speculative or trading purposes. at september 30, 2004, the value of our foreign currency forward contracts was insignificant, and there were no foreign currency option contracts outstanding. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements the company and its significant accounting policies for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies. financial instruments held by consolidated subsidiaries and equity method investees which are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. as a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. as a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. while we may hedge certain transactions with non-united states customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. finance receivables and notes receivable from international operators and customers that do not use the united states dollar as their functional currencies subject us to credit risk. because our financing is u.s. dollar denominated, any significant change in the value of the u.s. dollar against the debtors functional currencies could result in an increase in the debtor cash flow requirements and could thereby affect our ability to collect our receivables. at september 30, 2004, finance and note receivables from international operators and customers totaled $2 million, net of allowances. our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate risk discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate market risk. we invest most of our cash in a number of diversified investment and non-investment grade fixed and floating rate securities, consisting of cash equivalents and marketable securities. changes in the general level of united states interest rates can affect the principal values and yields of fixed income investments. if interest rates in the general economy were to rise rapidly in a short period of time, our fixed income investments could lose value. if the general economy were to weaken significantly, the credit profile of issuers of securities held in our investment portfolios could deteriorate, and our investments could lose value. we may implement investment strategies of different types with varying duration and risk/return trade-offs that do not perform well. the following table provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for our interest bearing securities, the table presents principal cash flows, weighted average yield at cost and contractual maturity dates. additionally, we have assumed that these securities are similar enough within the specified categories to aggregate these securities for presentation purposes. 54 table of contents interest rate sensitivity principal amount by expected maturity average interest rates (dollars in millions) no single fair 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter maturity total value fixed interest-bearing securities: cash and cash equivalents $ 608 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 608 $ 608 interest rate 3.6 % held-to-maturity securities $ 60 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 60 $ 60 interest rate 2.1 % available-for-sale securities: investment grade $ 2,266 $ 336 $ 221 $ 9 $ 20 $ 9 $ 213 $ 3,074 $ 3,074 interest rate 3.4 % 3.7 % 4.1 % 4.4 % 4.1 % 6.7 % 4.5 % non-investment grade $ 2 $ 5 $ 24 $ 48 $ 38 $ 573 $ $ 690 $ 690 interest rate 6.5 % 7.5 % 7.3 % 7.3 % 8.2 % 7.9 % floating interest-bearing securities: cash and cash equivalents $ 1,364 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,364 $ 1,364 interest rate 3.7 % held-to-maturity securities $ 70 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 70 $ 70 interest rate 1.4 % available-for-sale securities: investment grade $ 174 $ 289 $ 131 $ 26 $ 13 $ 49 $ 552 $ 1,234 $ 1,234 interest rate 3.6 % 3.7 % 3.6 % 3.5 % 4.0 % 4.3 % 4.1 % non-investment grade $ $ 6 $ $ 3 $ 2 $ 17 $ $ 28 $ 28 interest rate 4.9 % 6.4 % 7.1 % 8.5 % equity price market risk. we invest in a number of diversified marketable securities and mutual fund shares subject to equity price risk. the recorded values of marketable equity securities increased to $1.16 billion at september 25, 2005 from $765 million at september 26, 2004. the recorded value of equity mutual fund shares decreased to $293 million at september 25, 2005 from $296 million at september 26, 2004. our diversified investments in specific companies and industry segments may vary over time, and changes in the concentrations of these investments may affect the price volatility of our investments. a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual fund shares at september 25, 2005 would cause a corresponding 10% decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities, or $145 million. our strategic investments in other entities consist substantially of investments in private early stage companies accounted for under the equity and cost methods. accordingly, we believe that our exposure to market risk from these investments is not material. additionally, we do not anticipate any near-term changes in the nature of our market risk exposures or in management objectives and strategies with respect to managing such exposures. the recorded values of these strategic investments totaled $121 million at september 25, 2005, as compared to $162 million at september 26, 2004. we hold warrants to acquire equity interests in certain strategic investees that are subject to equity price risk. substantially all of these warrants are recorded at fair value in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities. the recorded values of warrants held at september 25, 2005 totaled $1 million, as compared to $4 million at september 26, 2004. in connection with our stock repurchase program, we sell put options that may require us to repurchase shares of our common stock at fixed prices. these written put options subject us to equity price risk. at september 25, 2005, two put options were outstanding, which expire on december 7, 2005 and march 21, 2006, that may require us to repurchase 11,500,000 shares of our common stock upon exercise for $411 million (net of the option premiums received). the put option liabilities, with a fair value of $7 million at september 25, 2005, were included in other current liabilities. if the fair value of our common stock at september 25, 2005 decreased by 10%, the put options would expire unexercised resulting in $7 million in investment income. if the fair value of our common stock at september 25, 2005 decreased by 25%, the amount required to physically settle the put options would exceed the fair value of the shares repurchased by approximately $25 million, net of the $23 million in premiums received. additional information regarding our strategic investments is provided in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and operating results in this annual report. 55 table of contents foreign exchange market risk. we manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, consisting primarily of foreign currency forward and option contracts. such derivative financial instruments are viewed as hedging or risk management tools and are not used for speculative or trading purposes. at september 25, 2005, we had no foreign currency forward contracts outstanding. at september 25, 2005, the recorded values of our foreign currency option contracts that hedge the foreign currency risk on royalties earned from certain international licensees on their sales of cdma and wcdma products were $16 million. if our forecasted royalty revenues were to decline by 20% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in each of our hedged foreign currencies, we would incur a loss of approximately $6 million resulting from a decrease in fair value of the portion of our hedges that would be rendered ineffective. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements - the company and its significant accounting policies for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies. financial instruments held by consolidated subsidiaries and equity method investees which are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. as a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. as a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. while we may hedge certain transactions with non-united states customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate risk discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks.risk factors 21 risk factors you should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this annual report in evaluating our business and our prospects. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. you should also refer to the other information set forth in this annual report, including our financial statements and the related notes. risks related to our businesses if cdma and cdma-related technology deployment does not expand as anticipated, our revenues may not grow as anticipated. we focus our business primarily on developing, patenting and commercializing cdma technology for wireless telecommunications applications. in addition, with the acquisition of flarion, we expect an increased emphasis on developing, patenting and commercializing ofdma technology. other digital wireless communications technologies, particularly gsm technology, have been more widely deployed than cdma technology. ofdma has not been widely deployed commercially. notwithstanding our portfolio of ofdm/ofdma intellectual property, technology and products, if cdma technology does not become the preferred wireless communications industry standard in the countries where our products and those of our customers and licensees are sold, our business and financial results could suffer. if wireless operators do not select cdma for their networks or update their current networks to any cdma-based third generation (3g) technology, our business and financial results could suffer since we generally have not generated revenues from gsm product sales, and there is no assurance that our ofdm/ofdma patent portfolio will be as valuable as our cdma portfolio or that our ofdma chipset business will be as successful as our cdma chipset business. further, if ofdma technology is not adopted and deployed commercially, our investment in flarion and ofdma technology may not provide us an adequate return on our investment. to increase our revenues in future periods, we are dependent upon the commercial deployment of 3g wireless communications equipment, products and services based on our cdma technology. although wireless network operators have commercially deployed cdma2000 and wcdma, we cannot predict the timing or success of further commercial deployments or expansions of cdma2000, wcdma or other cdma systems. if existing deployments are not commercially successful or do not continue to grow their subscriber base, or if new commercial deployments of cdma2000, wcdma or other cdma-based systems are delayed or unsuccessful, our business and financial 21 table of contents results may be harmed. in addition, our business could be harmed if wireless network operators deploy competing technologies or switch existing networks from cdma to gsm without upgrading to wcdma or if wireless network operators introduce new technologies. a limited number of operators have started testing ofdma technology, but there can be no assurance that ofdma will be adopted or deployed commercially or that we will be successful in developing and marketing ofdma products. although the acquisition of flarion brings us an additional and very strong portfolio of issued and pending patents related to ofdma technology, and, prior to the acquisition, we had hundreds of issued or pending patents relating to applications of gprs, edge, ofdm, ofdma and multi in, multi out (mimo), there can be no assurance that our patent portfolio in these areas would be as valuable as our cdma portfolio. sprint nextel has indicated that it is planning to deploy wimax (an ofdma based technology) in its 2.5 ghz spectrum, also known as the broadband radio services band. other operators are investigating deployment of wimax. although we believe that our patented technology is essential and useful to implementation of the wimax standard, there is no assurance that we will achieve the same royalty revenue on such wimax deployments as on cdma or other technology deployments or that we will achieve the same chipset market shares within a wimax network. our business and the deployment of our technologies, products and services are dependent on the success of our customers, licensees and cdma-based wireless operators, as well as the timing of their deployment of new services. our licensees and cdma-based wireless operators may incur lower operating margins on products or services based on our technologies than on products using alternative technologies due to greater competition in the relevant market or other factors. if cdma-based wireless operators, phone and/or infrastructure manufacturers exit the cdma-based markets, the deployment of cdma technology could be negatively affected, and our business could suffer. our three largest customers accounted for 39%, 39% and 40% of consolidated revenues in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. the loss of any one of our major customers or any reduction in the demand for devices utilizing our cdma technology could reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or sustain desired levels of operating results. qct segment. three customers, lg electronics, motorola inc. and samsung electronics company, constitute a significant portion of qct revenues such that the loss of any one of these customers or the delay, even if only temporary, or cancellation of significant orders from any of these customers would reduce our revenues in the period of the cancellation or deferral and harm our ability to achieve or sustain acceptable levels of operating results. accordingly, unless and until our qct segment diversifies and expands its customer base, our future success will significantly depend upon the timing and size of future purchase orders, if any, from these customers. factors that may impact the size and timing of orders from customers of our qct segment include, among others, the following: the product requirements of our customers and the network operators; the financial and operational success of our customers; the success of our customers products that incorporate our products; changes in wireless penetration growth rates; value added features which drive replacement rates; shortages of key products and components; fluctuations in channel inventory levels; the success of products sold to our customers by licensed competitors; the rate of deployment of new technology by the wireless network operators and the rate of adoption of new technology by the end consumers; the extent to which certain customers successfully develop and produce cdma-based integrated circuits and system software to meet their own needs; general economic conditions; changes in governmental regulations in countries where we or our customers currently operate or plan to operate; and widespread illness. 22 table of contents qtl segment. our qtl segment derives royalty revenues primarily from sales of cdma products by our licensees. although we have more than 135 licensees, we derive a significant portion of our royalty revenue from a limited number of licensees. our future success depends upon the ability of our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver high-volume products that achieve and sustain market acceptance. we have little or no control over the sales efforts of our licensees, and we cannot assure you that our licensees will be successful or that the demand for wireless communications devices and services offered by our licensees will continue to increase. any reduction in the demand for or any delay in the development, introduction or delivery of wireless communications devices utilizing our cdma technology could have a material adverse effect on our business. reductions in the average selling price of wireless communications devices utilizing our cdma technology, without a comparable increase in the volumes of such devices sold, could have a material adverse effect on our business. weakness in the value of foreign currencies in which our customers products are sold may reduce the amount of royalties payable to us in u.s. dollars. royalties under our license agreements are generally payable to us for the life of the patents that we license under our agreements. the licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date, and, in a small number of agreements, royalties are payable on those patents for a specified time period. as a result, there are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us under our license agreements. in order to license any such later patents, we will need to extend or modify our license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees. although in the past we have amended many of our license agreements to include later patents without affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements, there is no assurance that we will be able to modify our license agreements in the future to license any such later patents or extend such date(s) to incorporate later patents without affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees. we have a license agreement with nokia corp., which in part expires on april 9, 2007. while the parties have been in discussions to conclude an extension or a new license agreement beyond that time period, there is no certainty as to when we will be able to conclude an agreement or the terms of any such agreement. there is also a possibility that the parties will not be able to conclude a new or extended agreement by april 2007. in that event after april 9, 2007, unless and until the existing agreement is extended or a new agreement is concluded, nokia right to sell subscriber products under most of our patents (including many that we have declared as essential to the cdma, wcdma and other standards) and therefore nokia obligation to pay royalties to us will both cease under the terms of the current agreement, and our rights to sell integrated circuits under nokia patents will likewise cease under the terms of the current agreement. please refer to our discussion below under the subheadings entitled the enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive and could divert our valuable resources and claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property, that patents on which we rely are invalid, or that our business practices are in some way unlawful, could adversely affect our business and note that any company that makes or sells products without a license under the applicable patents of another company would be exposed to patent infringement litigation by such other company. the patent holder, whether we or another company, would generally be entitled to seek all available legal remedies including an injunction against making and selling products infringing such patent without a license and damages for past unlicensed sales in the form of lost profits or a reasonable royalty (which damages may be trebled for willful infringement). although our patents apply to multiple technologies, such as gprs, edge, ofdm, ofdma (including wimax) and mimo, there can be no assurance that our patent portfolio will generate licensing income or be as valuable in generating licensing income with respect to other technologies, as compared to cdma-based technologies. efforts by some telecommunications equipment manufacturers and component suppliers to avoid paying fair and reasonable royalties for the use of our intellectual property may create uncertainty about our future business prospects, may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources, and may result in legal decisions and/or political actions by foreign governments that harm our business. since our founding in 1985, we have focused heavily on technology development and innovation. these efforts have resulted in a leading intellectual property portfolio related to wireless technology. because all commercially deployed forms of cdma and their derivatives require the use of our patents, our patent portfolio is the most widely and extensively licensed portfolio in the industry with over 135 licensees. over the years a number of companies have challenged our patent position but at this time most, if not all, companies recognize that any company seeking 23 table of contents to develop, manufacture and/or sell products that use cdma technologies will require a patent license from us. notwithstanding the strength of this intellectual property position, we have a policy of, and have succeeded in, licensing our technology to all interested companies on terms that are fair, reasonable and free from unfair discrimination. unlike some other companies in our industry that hold back certain key technologies, we offer interested companies the opportunity to license essentially our entire patent portfolio. our broad licensing strategy has been a catalyst for industry growth, helping to enable a wide range of companies offering a broad array of wireless products and features while driving down average and low-end selling prices for 3g handsets and other wireless devices. by licensing a wide range of equipment manufacturers, encouraging innovative applications, supporting equipment manufacturers with a total chipset and software solution, and focusing on improving the efficiency of the airlink for operators, we have helped 3g cdma evolve, grow, and reduce handset pricing all at a faster pace than the second generation technologies that preceded it (e.g. gsm). having failed in their efforts to challenge the strength of our intellectual property position and, in most cases, despite contracts with us that were freely and fairly negotiated and contain fair and reasonable royalty provisions, a small number of companies have now initiated various strategies in an attempt to renegotiate, mitigate and/or eliminate their need to pay royalties to us for the use of our intellectual property in order to negatively affect our business model and that of our other licensees. these strategies have included (i) litigation, often alleging infringement of patents held by such companies or unfair competition of some variety, (ii) taking questionable positions on the interpretation of contracts with us, with royalty reduction as the likely true motive, (iii) appeals to governmental authorities, such as the complaints filed with the european commission (ec) during the fourth calendar quarter of 2005 and the korean fair trade commission during june 2006, and (iv) lobbying with governmental regulators and elected officials for the purpose of seeking the imposition of some form of compulsory licensing and/or to weaken a patent holder ability to enforce its rights or obtain a fair return for such rights. we were notified by the competition directorate of the ec that six companies (nokia, ericsson, panasonic, texas instruments, broadcom and nec) submitted separate formal complaints accusing our business practices, with respect to licensing of patents and sales of chipsets, to be in violation of article 82 of the ec treaty. we received the complaints and have submitted a response. while we believe that none of our business practices violate the legal requirements of article 82 of the ec treaty, if the ec decides to formally investigate these accusations and determines liability as to any of the alleged violations, it could impose fines and/or require us to modify our practices. further, such an investigation could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. although such potential adverse findings may be appealed within the ec legal system, an adverse final determination could have a significant negative impact on our revenues and/or earnings. we also understand that two u.s. companies (texas instruments and broadcom) and two south korean companies (nextreaming corp. and thinmultimedia inc.) have filed complaints with the korean fair trade commission alleging that our business practices are, in some way, a violation of south korean anti-trust regulations. while we have not seen these complaints, we believe that none of our business practices violate the legal requirements of south korean competition law. however, any resulting investigation in south korea could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. an adverse final determination on these charges could have a significant negative impact on our revenues and/or earnings. given our substantial investment in technology innovation, the demonstrable benefits provided by our intellectual property, and long-standing license agreements with more than 135 licensees including many of the world foremost wireless equipment manufacturers, we believe that our royalty rates are reasonable and fair to the companies that benefit from our intellectual property and provide significant incentives for others to invest in cdma applications, as evidenced by the significant growth in the cdma portion of the wireless industry, the integration of new features and functionality into cdma wireless products, and the rapid reduction in the price of low-end cdma handsets over recent years. while the distractions caused by challenges to our business model and licensing program are undesirable and the legal and other costs associated with defending our position have been and continue to be significant, we believe that these challenges are without merit, and we will continue to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights and our right to continue to receive a fair return for our innovations. a recent ruling in new jersey federal district court granted our motion to dismiss unfounded claims by broadcom that our business practices have been in violation of anti-trust law in the united states. these business practices are essentially the same as cited in the ec complaints. the court ruled that, assuming all the facts stated by broadcom are correct (which we believe is not the case), we have not violated any anti-trust laws. this ruling is very important and favorable. broadcom has appealed it. regrettably, we assume, as should investors, that challenges of this nature will continue into the foreseeable future and may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources to explain and defend our position. 24 table of contents although there can be no guarantees as to the ultimate outcome of these challenges, we intend to expend appropriate resources to educate governmental authorities, elected officials, courts of law, our licensees, wireless service operators and the general public as to the true nature of these disputes. we believe that when such information is fairly evaluated by such parties, these challenges by the complainants to the ec will be seen for what they truly are, an attempt to avoid paying the agreed upon and fair compensation for the use of our significant intellectual property portfolio, and to extend their domination of the second generation wireless handset market into the third generation. the enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive and could divert our valuable resources. we rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes, including our patent portfolio. policing unauthorized use of our products and technologies is difficult and time consuming. we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully or as readily as united states laws. we cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country, including the united states, or the practices of any of the international standards bodies, foreign or domestic, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing, issuance of wireless licenses or the adoption of standards, will not be changed in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. within the united states congress, committee work has been initiated to draft a patent reform law. the end product of such work could be new patent legislation detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. any action we take to influence such potential changes could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. the vast majority of our patents and patent applications relate to our wireless communications technology and much of the remainder of our patents and patent applications relate to our other technologies and products. litigation may be required to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. as a result of any such litigation, we could lose our proprietary rights or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. any action we take to enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. in addition, failure to protect our trademark rights could impair our brand identity. claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property, that patents on which we rely are invalid, or that our business practices are in some way unlawful, could adversely affect our business. from time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual proprietary rights against our products or products using our technologies or other technologies used in our industry. these claims have resulted (see item 3. legal proceedings) and may again result in our involvement in litigation. we may not prevail in such litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if any of our products were found to infringe on another company intellectual property rights, we could be required to redesign our products or license such rights and/or pay damages or other compensation to such other company. if we were unable to redesign our products or license such intellectual property rights used in our products, we could be prohibited from making and selling such products. in addition, as the number of competitors in our market increases and the functionality of our products is enhanced and overlaps with the products of other companies, we may become subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others. any claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming to address, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our operating results. in any potential dispute involving other companies patents or other intellectual property, our licensees could also become the targets of litigation. any such litigation could severely disrupt the business of our licensees, which in turn could hurt our relations with our licensees and cause our revenues to decrease. a number of other companies have claimed to own patents essential to various cdma standards, gsm standards and implementations of ofdm and ofdma systems. if we or other product manufacturers are required to 25 table of contents obtain additional licenses and/or pay royalties to one or more patent holders, this could have a material adverse effect on the commercial implementation of our cdma or multimode products and technologies, demand for our licensees products, and our profitability. our currently pending or future patent applications for imod may not result in issued patents. in addition, our issued imod patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or from third parties infringing our patents or misappropriating our trade secrets or provide us with any competitive advantage. other companies or entities also may commence actions seeking to establish the invalidity of our patents. in the event that one or more of our patents are challenged, a court may invalidate the patent or determine that the patent is not enforceable, which could harm our competitive position. if any of our key patents are invalidated, or if the scope of the claims in any of these patents is limited by court decision, we could be prevented from licensing the invalidated or limited portion of such patents. even if such a patent challenge is not successful, it could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. successful attempts by certain companies to amend or modify standards development organizations (sdo s) intellectual property policies could impact our licensing business. our technologies, such as cdma and ofdma, are generally proposed and incorporated into standards adopted by sdo throughout the world (e.g. european telecommunications standards institute (etsi), telecommunications industry association, telecommunications technology association, ieee, etc.). these sdo have policies with respect to intellectual property contributed by their member companies, which generally require member companies to commit to license their patents essential to the practice of the adopted standard on terms and conditions that are fair, reasonable and free from unfair discrimination (frand). we, as a member of these sdo and a significant contributor to a number of adopted standards, have made a number of frand commitments. some companies have proposed significant new sdo intellectual property policies, some of which would require a maximum aggregate intellectual property royalty rate for the use of all essential patents owned by its member companies to be applied to the selling price of any product implementing the adopted standard. they have further proposed that the maximum aggregate royalty rate be apportioned to each member company with essential patents based upon the size of its essential patent portfolio. recently, ngmn ltd., an industry standards development group organized by several wireless operators, has invited other companies in the industry to participate within ngmn ltd. subject to ip restrictions substantially similar to these proposals. it is quite early in the process of discussing and evaluating these proposals but we expect that, once all parties analyze and understand the full impact of these proposals, they will come to understand that such proposals are not in the best interests of the industry and would have serious undesirable consequences. for example, these proposals, if adopted, would discourage research and development investment, invention and innovation, incentivize bulk filings of marginal patents, and encourage lobbying for introduction of needless features into standards. further, they would discriminate against companies that develop new technology and enable other companies to manufacture and use products incorporating those new technologies in favor of such manufacturers and users. we are participating in the process and expect to channel it into useful improvements of the existing processes. although the etsi ad hoc ipr group has determined that such proposals should not be adopted as amendments to existing etsi policies, there can be no assurance that such proposals as described above will not be adopted by other sdo or industry groups, such as the recently formed ngmn ltd., resulting in a disadvantage to our business model either by limiting our return on investment with respect to new technologies or forcing us to work outside of the sdo or such other industry groups for promoting our new technologies. we depend upon a limited number of third party suppliers to manufacture component parts, subassemblies and finished goods for our products. if these third party suppliers do not allocate adequate manufacturing capacity in their facilities to manufacture products on our behalf, or if there are any disruptions in the operations of, or the loss of, any of these third parties, it could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers, reduce our revenue, increase our cost of sales and harm our business. our ability to meet customer demand depends, in part, on available manufacturing capacity and our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of parts and components from our suppliers. a reduction or interruption in our product supply source, an inability of our suppliers to react to shifts in product demand or an increase in component prices could have a material adverse effect on our business or profitability. component shortages could adversely affect our ability and that of our customers to ship products on a timely basis and as a result our customers demand 26 table of contents for our products. any such shipment delays or declines in demand could reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or sustain desired levels of profitability. additionally, failure to meet customer demand in a timely manner could damage our reputation and harm our customer relationships potentially resulting in reduced market share. our operations may also be harmed by lengthy or recurring disruptions at any of our suppliers manufacturing facilities and by disruptions in the distribution channels from our suppliers and to our customers. these disruptions may include labor strikes, work stoppages, widespread illness, terrorism, war, political unrest, fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disasters. these disruptions could cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift the products from an affected manufacturer to another manufacturer. if the affected supplier was a sole source supplier, we may not be able to resource the product without significant cost and delay. the loss of a significant third party supplier or the inability of a third party supplier to meet performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers and negatively impact our revenues and business operations. qct segment. a supplier ability to meet our product manufacturing demand is limited mainly by their overall capacity and current capacity availability. although we have entered into long-term contracts with our suppliers, most of these contracts do not provide for long-term capacity commitments. to the extent that we do not have firm commitments from our suppliers over a specific time period, or in any specific quantity, our suppliers may allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production of products for their other customers while reducing capacity to manufacture our products. accordingly, capacity for our products may not be available when we need it or available at reasonable prices. we have experienced capacity limitations from our suppliers in the past and may experience it in the future. during fiscal 2004 and the first quarter of fiscal 2005, we experienced supply constraints which resulted in our inability to meet certain customer demand. while we were able to alleviate these supply constraints and improve the supply and delivery of integrated circuits by working with our existing suppliers to increase available manufacturing capacity, and by increasing and extending our firm orders to our suppliers, there can be no assurance that we will not experience supply constraints in the future, which could result in our failure to meet customer demand. while our goal is to establish alternate suppliers for technologies that we consider critical, some of our integrated circuits products are only available from single sources, with which we do not have long-term contracts. our reliance on sole or limited-source vendors involves significant risks including possible shortages of manufacturing capacity, poor product performance and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability and yields, quality assurance, quantity and costs. in the event of a loss of, or a decision to change a key third party supplier, qualifying a new foundry supplier and commencing volume production or testing could involve delay and expense, resulting in lost revenues, reduced operating margins and possible loss of customers. we work closely with our customers to expedite their processes for evaluating new integrated circuits from our foundry suppliers; however, in some instances, transition of integrated circuit production to a new foundry supplier may cause a temporary decline in shipments of specific integrated circuits to individual customers. qmt division. qmt needs to form and maintain reliable business relationships with flat panel display manufacturers or other targeted partners to support the manufacture of imod displays in commercial volumes. all of our current relationships have been for the development and limited production of certain imod display panels and/or modules. some or all of these relationships may not succeed or, even if they are successful, may not result in the display manufacturers entering into material supply relationships with us. we are expanding our manufacturing model to purchase completed die from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and to contract directly with third party manufacturers for assembly and test services. this new production model may increase costs and lower our control over the manufacturing process. to further enable flexibility of supply and access to potential new foundry suppliers, and in response to the complexity of our product roadmap, starting in fiscal 2005, we expanded our manufacturing model to include purchasing completed die directly from semiconductor manufacturing foundries. under our ifm model, we directly manage and contract with third party manufacturers for back-end assembly and test services, and we ship the completed integrated circuits to our customers. we expect to increase the volume of our purchases of completed die directly from our foundry suppliers under our ifm model and to continue to purchase the majority of our requirements for integrated circuit products on a turnkey basis. we have a limited history of working with these third party suppliers under this expanded manufacturing model, and their services and volume of activity may not be 27 table of contents completely reliable during the initial stages. we cannot guarantee that this change will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost of sales. our suppliers may also be our competitors putting us at a disadvantage for pricing and capacity allocation. one or more of our suppliers may obtain licenses from us to manufacture cdma-based integrated circuits that compete with our products. in this event, the supplier could elect to allocate raw materials and manufacturing capacity to their own products and reduce deliveries to us to our detriment. in addition, we may not receive reasonable pricing, manufacturing or delivery terms. we cannot guarantee that the actions of our suppliers will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost of sales. we, and our licensees, are subject to the risks of conducting business outside the united states. a significant part of our strategy involves our continued pursuit of growth opportunities in a number of international markets. we market, sell and service our products internationally. we have established sales offices around the world. we expect to continue to expand our international sales operations and enter new international markets. this expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources to successfully develop direct and indirect international sales and support channels, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful or that our expenditures in this effort will not exceed the amount of any resulting revenues. if we are not able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products and technologies, we may not be able to maintain a desired rate of growth in our business. our international customers sell their products to markets throughout the world, including china, india, japan, south korea, north america, south america and europe. we distinguish revenues from external customers by geographic areas based on customer location. consolidated revenues from international customers as a percentage of total revenues were 87%, 82% and 79% in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. because most of our foreign sales are denominated in u.s. dollars, our products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold in u.s. dollars become less price-competitive in international markets if the value of the u.s. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies. in many international markets, barriers to entry are created by long-standing relationships between our potential customers and their local service providers and protective regulations, including local content and service requirements. in addition, our pursuit of international growth opportunities may require significant investments for an extended period before we realize returns, if any, on our investments. our business could be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors, including: changes in legal or regulatory requirements, including regulations governing the materials used in our products; legal or regulatory limitations on the spectrum available for the deployment of cdma-based technologies; difficulty in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights and/or contracts in a particular foreign jurisdiction, including challenges to our licensing practices under such jurisdictions competition laws; our inability to succeed in significant foreign markets, such as china, india or europe; cultural differences in the conduct of business; difficulty in attracting qualified personnel and managing foreign activities; recessions in economies outside the united states; longer payment cycles for and greater difficulties collecting accounts receivable; export controls, tariffs and other trade protection measures; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; 28 table of contents inflation and deflation; nationalization, expropriation and limitations on repatriation of cash; social, economic and political instability; natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war; taxation; and changes in laws and policies affecting trade, foreign investments, licensing practices and loans. in addition to general risks associated with our international sales, licensing activities and operations, we are also subject to risks specific to the individual countries in which we do business. we cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing, issuance of wireless licenses or the adoption of standards will not be changed or enforced in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. declines in currency values in selected regions may adversely affect our operating results because our products and those of our customers and licensees may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. during fiscal 2006, 70% of our revenues were from customers and licensees based in south korea, japan and china, as compared to 69% during fiscal 2005 and 68% during fiscal 2004. these customers sell their products to markets worldwide, including japan, south korea, china, india, north america, south america and europe. a significant downturn in the economies of asian countries where many of our customers and licensees are located, particularly the economies of south korea, japan and china, or the economies of the major markets they serve would materially harm our business. the wireless markets in brazil, china and india, among others, represent growth opportunities for us. if wireless operators in brazil, china or india, or the governments of brazil, china or india, make technology deployment or other decisions that result in actions that are adverse to the expansion of cdma technologies, our business could be harmed. we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide subsidies on phone sales to their customers. increases in phone prices that negatively impact phone sales can result from changes in regulatory policies related to phone subsidies. limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in south korea, japan, china and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues. we expect that royalty revenues from international licensees based upon sales of their products outside of the united states will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenues in the future. our royalty revenues from international licensees are denominated in u.s. dollars. to the extent that such licensees products are sold in foreign currencies, any royalties that we derive as a result of such sales are subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. in addition, if the effective price of products sold by our customers were to increase as a result of fluctuations in the exchange rate of the relevant currencies, demand for the products could fall, which in turn would reduce our royalty revenues. currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenue, harm our ability to collect receivables, or increase the u.s. dollar cost of the activities of our foreign subsidiaries and international strategic investments. we are exposed to risk from fluctuations in currencies, which may change over time as our business practices evolve, that could impact our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. we operate and invest globally. adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business due to a number of situations, including the following: assets or liabilities of our consolidated subsidiaries and our foreign investees that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations, which may affect our reported earnings. our exposure to foreign currencies may increase as we expand into new markets. investments in our consolidated foreign subsidiaries and in other foreign entities that use the local currency as the functional currency may decline in value as a result of declines in local currency values. 29 table of contents certain of our revenues, such as royalty revenues, are derived from licensee or customer sales that are denominated in foreign currencies. if these revenues are not subject to foreign exchange hedging transactions, weakening of currency values in selected regions could adversely affect our anticipated revenues and cash flows. we may engage in foreign exchange hedging transactions that could affect our cash flows and earnings because they may require the payment of structuring fees, and they may limit the u.s. dollar value of royalties from licensees sales that are denominated in foreign currencies. our trade receivables are generally u.s. dollar denominated. any significant increase in the value of the dollar against our customers or licensees functional currencies could result in an increase in our customers or licensees cash flow requirements and could consequently affect our ability to sell products and collect receivables. strengthening of currency values in selected regions may adversely affect our operating results because the activities of our foreign subsidiaries may become more expensive in u.s. dollars. strengthening of currency values in selected regions may adversely affect our cash flows and investment results because strategic investment obligations denominated in foreign currencies may become more expensive, and the u.s. dollar cost of equity in losses of foreign investees may increase. we may engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions that could result in significant changes or management disruption and fail to enhance stockholder value. from time to time, we engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. we have acquired businesses, entered into joint ventures and made strategic investments in or loans to cdma wireless operators, early-stage companies, or venture funds to support our business, including the global adoption of cdma-based technologies and related services. most of our strategic investments entail a high degree of risk and will not become liquid until more than one year from the date of investment, if at all. we cannot provide assurance that our acquisitions or strategic investments (either those we currently have completed or may undertake in the future) will generate financial returns or that they will result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies. achieving the anticipated benefits of acquisitions will depend in part upon our ability to integrate the acquired businesses in an efficient and effective manner. the integration of two companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, and we may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. the difficulties of integrating two companies include, among others: retaining key employees; maintenance of important relationships of qualcomm and the acquired business; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business matters; coordinating geographically separate organizations; consolidating research and development operations; and consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. we cannot assure you that the integration of the acquired businesses with our business will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated by us to result from the acquisition. we may not derive any commercial value from the acquired technology, products and intellectual property or from future technologies and products based on the acquired technology and/or intellectual property, and we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by indemnification protection we may obtain. we will continue to evaluate potential future transactions that we believe may enhance stockholder value. these potential future transactions may include a variety of different business arrangements, including acquisitions, spin-offs, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, restructurings, divestitures, business combinations and equity or debt investments. although our goal is to maximize stockholder value, such transactions may impair stockholder value or otherwise adversely affect our business and the trading price of our stock. any such transaction may require us to 30 table of contents incur non-recurring or other charges and/or to consolidate or record our equity in losses and may pose significant integration challenges and/or management and business disruptions, any of which could harm our operating results and business. defects or errors in our products and services or in products made by our suppliers could harm our relations with our customers and expose us to liability. similar problems related to the products of our customers or licensees could harm our business. our products are inherently complex and may contain defects and errors that are detected only when the products are in use. further, because our products and services are responsible for critical functions in our customers products and/or networks, such defects or errors could have a serious impact on our customers, which could damage our reputation, harm our customer relationships and expose us to liability. defects or impurities in our components, materials or software or those used by our customers or licensees, equipment failures or other difficulties could adversely affect our ability and that of our customers and licensees to ship products on a timely basis as well as customer or licensee demand for our products. any such shipment delays or declines in demand could reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or sustain desired levels of profitability. we and our customers or licensees may also experience component or software failures or defects that could require significant product recalls, reworks and/or repairs which are not covered by warranty reserves and which could consume a substantial portion of the capacity of our third party manufacturers or those of our customers or licensees. resolving any defect or failure related issues could consume financial and/or engineering resources that could affect future product release schedules. additionally, a defect or failure in our products or the products of our customers or licensees could harm our reputation and/or adversely affect the growth of 3g wireless markets. as our product complexities increase, we are required to migrate to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes such as 90nm, 65nm, etc. the design process interface issues are more complex as we enter into these new domains of technology, which adds risks on yield and reliability. in addition, the timely readiness of our foundry suppliers to support such technology changes could impact our ability to meet customer demand, revenue, and cost expectations. the timing of acceptance of the smaller technology designs by our customers may subject us to the risk of excess inventories of earlier designs. global economic conditions that impact the wireless communications industry could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. global economic conditions can have wide-ranging effects on markets that we serve, particularly wireless communications equipment manufacturers and wireless network operators. we cannot predict negative events, such as war, that may have adverse effects on the economy or on phone inventories at cdma-based equipment manufacturers and operators. the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause disruptions to the global economy and to the wireless communications industry and create uncertainties. recent reports suggest that inflation could have adverse effects on the global economy and capital markets. inflation could adversely affect our customers, including their ability to obtain financing, upgrade wireless networks and purchase our products and services, and our end consumers, by lowering their standards of living and diminishing their ability to purchase wireless devices based on our technology. inflation could also increase our costs of raw materials and operating expenses and harm our business in other ways. should such negative events occur, subsequent economic recovery might not benefit us in the near term. if it does not, our ability to increase or maintain our revenues and operating results may be impaired. in addition, because we intend to continue to make significant investments in research and development and to maintain extensive ongoing customer service and support capability, any decline in the rate of growth of our revenues will have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. our industry is subject to competition that could result in decreased demand for our products and the products of our customers and licensees and/or declining average selling prices for our licensees products and our products, negatively affecting our revenues and operating results. we currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that competition will continue. competition in the telecommunications market is affected by various factors, including: comprehensiveness of products and technologies; value added features which drive replacement rates; 31 table of contents manufacturing capability; scalability and the ability of the system technology to meet customers immediate and future network requirements; product performance and quality; design and engineering capabilities; compliance with industry standards; time-to-market; system cost; and customer support. this competition may result in increased development costs and reduced average selling prices for our products and those of our customers and licensees. reductions in the average selling price of our licensees products, unless offset by an increase in volumes, generally result in reduced royalties payable to us. while pricing pressures from competition may, to a large extent, be mitigated by the introduction of new features and functionality in our licensees products, there is no guarantee that such mitigation will occur. we anticipate that additional competitors will enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in wireless telecommunications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in selected segments of the industry. companies that promote non-cdma technologies (e.g. gsm and wimax) and companies that design competing cdma-based integrated circuits are included amongst our competitors. examples of such competitors (some of whom are strategic partners of ours in other areas) include agere, broadcom, eonex technologies, ericsson, freescale, fujitsu, intel, nec, nokia, samsung, texas instruments and via telecom. with respect to our qwbs business, our competitors are aggressively pricing products and services and are offering new value-added products and services which may impact margins, intensify competition in current and new markets and harm our ability to compete in certain markets. many of these current and potential competitors have advantages over us, including: longer operating histories and presence in key markets; greater name recognition; motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to find alternate suppliers; access to larger customer bases; economies of scale and cost structure advantages; and greater sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we have. as a result of these and other factors, our competitors may be more successful than us. in addition, we anticipate additional competitors will enter the market for products based on 3g standards. these competitors may have more established relationships and distribution channels in markets not currently deploying cdma-based wireless communications technology. these competitors also may have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with our existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. these relationships may affect our customers decisions to purchase products or license technology from us. accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share to our detriment. while we continue to believe our imod displays will offer compelling advantages to the display market, there can be no assurance that other technologies will not continue to improve in ways that reduce the advantages we anticipate from our imod displays. the flat panel display market is currently, and we believe will likely continue to be for some time, dominated by displays based on liquid crystal display (lcd) technology. numerous companies are making substantial investments in, and conducting research to improve characteristics of lcds. additionally, several other flat panel display technologies have been, or are being, developed, including technologies for the production of 32 table of contents organic light-emitting diode (oled), field emission, inorganic electroluminescence, gas plasma and vacuum fluorescent displays. in each case, advances in lcd or other flat panel display technologies could result in technologies that are more cost effective, have fewer display limitations, or can be brought to market faster than our imod technology. these advances in competing technologies might cause display manufacturers to avoid entering into commercial relationships with us, or not renew planned or existing relationships with us. our business and operating results will be harmed if we are unable to manage growth in our business. certain of our businesses have experienced periods of rapid growth and/or increased their international activities, placing significant demands on our managerial, operational and financial resources. in order to manage growth and geographic expansion, we must continue to improve and develop our management, operational and financial systems and controls, including quality control and delivery and service capabilities. we also need to continue to expand, train and manage our employee base. we must carefully manage research and development capabilities and production and inventory levels to meet product demand, new product introductions and product and technology transitions. we cannot assure you that we will be able to timely and effectively meet that demand and maintain the quality standards required by our existing and potential customers and licensees. in addition, inaccuracies in our demand forecasts, or failure of the systems used to develop the forecasts, could quickly result in either insufficient or excessive inventories and disproportionate overhead expenses. if we ineffectively manage our growth or are unsuccessful in recruiting and retaining personnel, our business and operating results will be harmed. our operating results are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market downturns. our revenues, earnings and other operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. general economic or other conditions causing a downturn in the market for our products or technology, and in turn affecting the timing of customer orders or causing cancellations or rescheduling of orders, could also adversely affect our operating results. moreover, our customers may change delivery schedules, cancel or reduce orders without incurring significant penalties and generally are not subject to minimum purchase requirements. our future operating results will be affected by many factors, including, but not limited to: our ability to retain existing or secure anticipated customers or licensees, both domestically and internationally; our ability to develop, introduce and market new technology, products and services on a timely basis; management of inventory by us and our customers and their customers in response to shifts in market demand; changes in the mix of technology and products developed, licensed, produced and sold; seasonal customer demand; the flarion acquisition; and other factors described elsewhere in this annual report and in these risk factors. our cash investments represent a significant asset that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements and financial market conditions in fixed income and equity securities. these factors affecting our future operating results are difficult to forecast and could harm our quarterly and/or annual operating results. if our operating results fail to meet the financial guidance we provide to investors, or the expectations of investment analysts or investors in any period, securities class action litigation could be brought against us and/or the market price of our common stock could decline. our stock price may be volatile. the stock market in general, and the stock prices of technology-based and wireless communications companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company. the market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future as well. factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock include: announcements concerning us or our competitors, including the selection of wireless communications technology by wireless operators and the timing of the roll-out of those systems; receipt of substantial orders or order cancellations for integrated circuits and system software products; quality deficiencies in services or products; announcements regarding financial developments or technological innovations; 33 table of contents international developments, such as technology mandates, political developments or changes in economic policies; lack of capital to invest in 3g networks; new commercial products; changes in recommendations of securities analysts; general stock market volatility; government regulations, including share-based compensation accounting and tax regulations; energy blackouts; acts of terrorism and war; inflation and deflation; widespread illness; proprietary rights or product or patent litigation against us or against our customers or licensees; strategic transactions, such as acquisitions and divestitures; or rumors or allegations regarding our financial disclosures or practices. our future earnings and stock price may be subject to volatility, particularly on a quarterly basis. shortfalls in our revenues or earnings in any given period relative to the levels expected by securities analysts could immediately, significantly and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. due to changes in the volatility of our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. securities litigation could result in substantial uninsured costs and divert management attention and resources. in addition, stock price volatility may be precipitated by failure to meet earnings expectations or other factors, such as the potential uncertainty in future reported earnings created by the assumptions used for share-based compensation and the related valuation models used to determine such expense. our industry is subject to rapid technological change, and we must make substantial investments in new products and technologies to compete successfully. new technological innovations generally require a substantial investment before they are commercially viable. we intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing new products and technologies, and it is possible that our development efforts will not be successful and that our new technologies will not result in meaningful revenues. in particular, we intend to continue to invest significant resources in developing integrated circuit products to support high-speed wireless internet access and multimode, multiband, multinetwork operation and multimedia applications, which encompass development of graphical display, camera and video capabilities, as well as higher computational capability and lower power on-chip computers and signal processors. while our research and development activities have resulted in inventions relating to applications of gprs, edge, ofdm, ofdma and mimo, and hundreds of issued or pending patent applications, there can be no assurance that our patent portfolio in these areas would be as valuable as our cdma portfolio. further, if ofdma technology is not adopted and deployed commercially, our investment in flarion and ofdma technology may not provide us an adequate return on our investment. we also continue to invest in the development of our brew applications development platform, our mediaflo mds and flo technology and our imod display technology. all of these new products and technologies face significant competition, and we cannot assure you that the revenues generated from these products or the timing of the deployment of these products or technologies, which may be dependent on the actions of others, will meet our expectations. we cannot be certain that we will make the additional advances in development that may be essential to successfully commercialize our imod technology. 34 table of contents the market for our products and technology is characterized by many factors, including: rapid technological advances and evolving industry standards; changes in customer requirements; frequent introductions of new products and enhancements; evolving methods for transmission of wireless voice and data communications; and intense competition from companies with greater resources, customer relationships and distribution capabilities. our future success will depend on our ability to continue to develop and introduce new products, technology and enhancements on a timely basis. our future success will also depend on our ability to keep pace with technological developments, protect our intellectual property, satisfy customer requirements, price our products competitively and achieve market acceptance. the introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products and technology, and products and technology currently under development, obsolete and unmarketable. if we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments or customer requirements, or experience any significant delays in development, introduction or shipment of our products and technology in commercial quantities, demand for our products and our customers and licensees products that use our technology could decrease, and our competitive position could be damaged. changes in financial accounting standards related to share-based payments are expected to continue to have a significant effect on our reported results. on september 26, 2005, we adopted the revised statement of financial accounting standards no. fas 123 (fas 123r), share-based payment, which requires that we record compensation expense in the statement of operations for share-based payments, such as employee stock options, using the fair value method. the adoption of this new standard is expected to continue to have a significant effect on our reported earnings, although it will not affect our cash flows, and could adversely impact our ability to provide accurate guidance on our future reported financial results due to the variability of the factors used to estimate the values of share-based payments. if factors change and we employ different assumptions or different valuation methods in the application of fas 123r in future periods, the compensation expense that we record under fas 123r may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period, which could negatively affect our stock price and our stock price volatility. potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. in such case, a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods in which that determination is made could result. if we experience product liability claims or recalls, we may incur significant expenses and experience decreased demand for our products. testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our products and those of our licensees and customers entail the risk of product liability. the use of wireless devices containing our products to access un-trusted content creates a risk of exposing the system software in those devices to viral or malicious attacks. we continue to expand our focus on this issue and take measures to safeguard the software from this threat. however, this issue carries the risk of general product liability along with the associated impacts on reputation and demand. although we believe our product liability insurance will be adequate to protect against product liability claims, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to maintain such insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to product liability. our inability to maintain insurance at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products and those of our licensees and customers and harm our future operating results. furthermore, not all losses associated with alleged product failure are insurable. in addition, a product liability claim or recall, whether against our licensees, customers, or us could harm our reputation and result in decreased demand for our products. 35 table of contents the high amount of capital required to obtain radio frequency licenses, deploy and expand wireless networks and obtain new subscribers could slow the growth of the wireless communications industry and adversely affect our business. our growth is dependent upon the increased use of wireless communications services that utilize our technology. in order to provide wireless communications services, wireless operators must obtain rights to use specific radio frequencies. the allocation of frequencies is regulated in the united states and other countries throughout the world, and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless communications services. industry growth may be affected by the amount of capital required to: obtain licenses to use new frequencies; deploy wireless networks to offer voice and data services; expand wireless networks to grow voice and data services; and obtain new subscribers. the significant cost of licenses, wireless networks and subscriber additions may slow the growth of the industry if wireless operators are unable to obtain or service the additional capital necessary to implement or expand 3g wireless networks. our growth could be adversely affected if this occurs. if wireless phones pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers may decrease. concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions, even if unfounded, may have the effect of discouraging the use of wireless phones, which would decrease demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers. in recent years, the fcc and foreign regulatory agencies have updated the guidelines and methods they use for evaluating radio frequency emissions from radio equipment, including wireless phones. in addition, interest groups have requested that the fcc investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and medical devices. concerns have also been expressed over the possibility of safety risks due to a lack of attention associated with the use of wireless phones while driving. any legislation that may be adopted in response to these expressions of concern could reduce demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers in the united states as well as foreign countries. our qwbs business depends on the availability of satellite and other networks. our omnitracs and omnivision systems currently operate in the united states market on leased ku-band satellite transponders. our primary data satellite transponder and position reporting satellite transponder lease runs through october 2012 and includes transponder and satellite protection (back-up capacity in the event of a transponder or satellite failure), which we believe will provide sufficient transponder capacity for our united states omnitracs and omnivision operations through fiscal 2012. a failure to maintain adequate satellite capacity could harm our business, operating results, liquidity and financial position. qwbs terrestrial-based products rely on various wireless terrestrial communication networks operated by third parties. the unavailability or nonperformance of these network systems could harm our business. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology networking systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations or to our customers or licensees operations could result in a material disruption to our business. to the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our customers data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. in addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. message transmissions for qwbs operations are formatted and processed at the network management center in san diego, california, with a fully redundant backup network management center located in las vegas, nevada. both centers, operated by us, are subject to system failures, which could interrupt the services and have an adverse effect on our operating results. from time to time, we install new or upgraded business management systems. to the extent such systems fail or are not properly implemented, we may experience material disruptions to our business, delays in our external financial reporting or failures in our system of internal controls, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 36 table of contents noncompliance with environmental or safety regulations could cause us to incur significant expenses and harm our business. as part of the development of our imod display technology, we are operating a research and development fabrication facility. the development of imod display prototypes is a complex and precise process involving hazardous materials subject to environmental and safety regulations. failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental and safety regulations could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines and/or the suspension or termination of development activities. we cannot assure stockholders that our stock repurchase program will result in a positive return of capital to stockholders. at september 24, 2006, we have remaining authority to repurchase up to $0.9 billion of our common stock, net of outstanding put options. there can be no assurance that stock repurchases will create value for stockholders because the market price of the stock may decline significantly below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock. our stock purchase program is intended to deliver stockholder value over the long-term, but short-term stock price fluctuations can reduce the program effectiveness. as part of our stock repurchase program, we may sell put options or engage in structured derivative transactions to reduce the cost of repurchasing stock. in the event of a significant and unexpected drop in stock price, these arrangements may require us to repurchase stock at price levels that are significantly above the then-prevailing market price of our stock. such overpayments may have an adverse effect on the effectiveness of our overall stock repurchase program and may lose value for our stockholders. we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. we intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders. future dividends may be affected by, among other items, our views on potential future capital requirements, including those related to research and development, creation and expansion of sales distribution channels and investments and acquisitions, legal risks, stock repurchase programs, changes in federal income tax law and changes to our business model. our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. a reduction in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price. government regulation may adversely affect our business. our products and those of our customers and licensees are subject to various regulations, including fcc regulations in the united states and other international regulations, as well as the specifications of national, regional and international standards bodies. changes in the regulation of our activities, including changes in the allocation of available spectrum by the united states government and other governments or exclusion or limitation of our technology or products by a government or standards body, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, liquidity and financial position. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our board members, executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. in addition, implementing our product and business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, and our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. the market for such specialized engineering and other talented employees in our industry is extremely competitive. in addition, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of u.s. universities, making the pool of available talent even smaller. key employees represent a significant asset, and the competition for these employees is intense in the wireless communications industry. in the event of a labor shortage, or in the event of an unfavorable change in prevailing labor and/or immigration laws, we could experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified employees. we continue to anticipate increases in human resources, particularly in engineering, through fiscal 2007. if we are unable to attract and retain the qualified employees that we need, our business may be harmed. we may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel in periods of poor operating performance given the significant use of incentive compensation by our competitors. we do not have employment agreements with our key management personnel and do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our personnel. the loss 37 table of contents of one or more of our key employees or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could negatively impact our ability to design, develop and commercialize our products and technology. since our inception, we have used stock options and other long-term equity incentives as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages. we believe that stock options and other long-term equity incentives directly motivate our employees to maximize long-term stockholder value and, using long-term vesting, encourage employees to remain with us. to the extent that new regulations make it less attractive to grant options to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. future changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may cause adverse unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. a change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. new and often complex accounting pronouncements, taxation rules, and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time. we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. complying with evolving interpretations of new or changed legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and procedures, and may divert management time and attention from revenue generating to compliance activities. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation might also be harmed. in addition, it has become more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we have purchased reduced coverage at substantially higher cost than in the past. further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. our charter documents and delaware law could limit transactions in which stockholders might obtain a premium over current market prices. our certificate of incorporation includes a provision that requires the approval of holders of at least 66 2/3% of our voting stock as a condition to certain mergers or other business transactions with, or proposed by, a holder of 15% or more of our voting stock. under our charter documents, stockholders are not permitted to call special meetings of our stockholders or to act by written consent. these charter provisions may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change in our control, including those offering stockholders a premium over current market prices. these provisions may also limit our stockholders ability to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. further, our board of directors has the authority under delaware law to fix the rights and preferences of and issue shares of preferred stock, and our preferred share purchase rights agreement will cause substantial dilution to the ownership of a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors. while our board of directors approved our preferred share purchase rights agreement to provide the board with greater ability to maximize shareholder value, these rights could deter takeover attempts that the board finds inadequate and make it more difficult to bring about a change in our ownership. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. we invest our cash in a number of diversified investment and non-investment grade fixed and floating rate securities, consisting of cash equivalents and marketable securities. changes in the general level of united states interest rates can affect the principal values and yields of fixed income investments. if interest rates in the general economy were to rise rapidly in a short period of time, our fixed income investments could lose value. if the general economy were to weaken significantly, the credit profile of issuers of securities held in our investment portfolios could deteriorate, and our investments could lose value. we may implement investment strategies of different types with varying duration and risk/return trade-offs that do not perform well. the following table provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for our interest-bearing securities, the table presents principal cash flows, weighted average yield at cost and contractual maturity dates. additionally, we have assumed that these securities are similar enough within the specified categories to aggregate these securities for presentation purposes. 61 table of contents interest rate sensitivity principal amount by expected maturity average interest rates (dollars in millions) no single fair 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter maturity total value fixed interest-bearing securities: cash and cash equivalents $ 482 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 482 $ 482 interest rate 5.3 % available-for-sale securities: investment grade $ 2,138 $ 436 $ 238 $ 39 $ 12 $ 10 $ 267 $ 3,140 $ 3,140 interest rate 4.1 % 4.6 % 5.2 % 5.0 % 5.2 % 7.3 % 4.9 % non-investment grade $ 2 $ 13 $ 37 $ 30 $ 61 $ 352 $ $ 495 $ 495 interest rate 7.2 % 5.8 % 6.8 % 7.7 % 7.5 % 8.0 % floating interest-bearing securities: cash and cash equivalents $ 999 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 999 $ 999 interest rate 5.3 % available-for-sale securities: investment grade $ 157 $ 116 $ 192 $ 52 $ 3 $ 87 $ 348 $ 955 $ 955 interest rate 5.0 % 5.3 % 5.6 % 5.6 % 5.8 % 5.8 % 5.5 % non-investment grade $ 10 $ 14 $ 12 $ 26 $ 65 $ 258 $ 512 $ 897 $ 897 interest rate 6.4 % 6.7 % 6.6 % 6.5 % 7.1 % 7.1 % 7.2 % equity price risk. we invest in a number of diversified marketable securities and mutual fund shares subject to equity price risk. the recorded values of marketable equity securities increased to $1.34 billion at september 24, 2006 from $1.16 billion at september 25, 2005. the recorded value of equity mutual fund shares increased to $1.52 billion at september 24, 2006 from $293 million at september 25, 2005. our diversified investments in companies and industry segments may vary over time, and changes in the concentrations of these investments may affect the price volatility of our investments. a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual fund shares at september 24, 2006 would cause a corresponding 10% decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities, or $285 million. our strategic investments in other entities consist substantially of investments in private early-stage companies accounted for under the equity and cost methods. accordingly, we believe that our exposure to market risk from these investments is not material. additionally, we do not anticipate any near-term changes in the nature of our market risk exposures or in management objectives and strategies with respect to managing such exposures. the recorded values of these strategic investments totaled $93 million at september 24, 2006, compared to $121 million at september 25, 2005. in connection with our stock repurchase program, we sell put options that may require us to repurchase shares of our common stock at fixed prices. these written put options subject us to equity price risk. at september 24, 2006, we had two outstanding put options, enabling holders to purchase 2,000,000 shares of our common stock upon exercise for approximately $89 million (net of the option premiums received). the put option liabilities, with a fair value of $19 million at september 24, 2006, were included in other current liabilities. if the fair value of our common stock at september 24, 2006 decreased by 10%, the amount required to physically settle the put options would exceed the fair value of the shares by $21 million, net of the $6 million in premiums received. additional information regarding our strategic investments is provided in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report. foreign exchange risk. we manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, consisting primarily of foreign currency forward and option contracts. such derivative financial instruments are viewed as hedging or risk management tools and are not used for speculative or trading purposes. at september 24, 2006, we had no foreign currency forward contracts outstanding. at september 24, 2006, the net recorded value of our foreign currency option contracts that hedge the foreign currency risk on royalties earned from certain international licensees on their sales of cdma and wcdma products was a liability of $2 million. if our forecasted royalty revenues were to decline by 20% and foreign exchange rates 62 table of contents were to change unfavorably by 20% in each of our hedged foreign currencies, we would incur a loss of approximately $3 million resulting from a decrease in fair value of the portion of our hedges that would be rendered ineffective. see notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1 the company and its significant accounting policies for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies. financial instruments held by consolidated subsidiaries and equity method investees which are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. as a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. as a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. while we may hedge certain transactions with non-united states customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate risk discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks.risk factors 17 risk factors you should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this annual report in evaluating our business and our prospects. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. you should also refer to the other information set forth in this annual report, including our financial statements and the related notes. risks related to our businesses if deployment of our technologies does not expand as expected, our revenues may not grow as anticipated. we focus our business primarily on developing, patenting and commercializing cdma technology for wireless telecommunications applications. in addition, with the acquisition of flarion, we have increased our emphasis on developing, patenting and commercializing ofdma technology. other digital wireless communications technologies, particularly gsm technology, have been more widely deployed than cdma technology. ofdma has not been widely deployed commercially. notwithstanding our portfolio of ofdm/ofdma intellectual property, technology and products, if cdma technology does not become the preferred wireless communications industry standard in the countries where our products and those of our customers and licensees are sold, our business and financial results could suffer. if gsm wireless operators do not select cdma for their networks or update their current networks to any cdma-based third generation (3g) technology, our business and financial results could suffer since we generally have not generated revenues from gsm product sales. further, if ofdma technology is not adopted and deployed commercially, our investments in ofdma technology may not provide us an adequate return. our business and the deployment of our technologies, products and services are dependent on the success of our customers, licensees and cdma-based wireless operators, as well as the timing of their deployment of new services. our licensees and cdma-based wireless operators may incur lower operating margins on products or services based on our technologies than on products using alternative technologies as a result of greater competition in the relevant market or other factors. if cdma-based wireless operators, wireless device and/or infrastructure manufacturers exit the cdma-based markets, the deployment of cdma technology could be negatively affected, and our business could suffer. we are dependent on the commercial deployment of 3g wireless communications equipment, products and services to increase our revenues, and our business may be harmed if wireless networks deploy other technologies. to increase our revenues in future periods, we are dependent upon the commercial deployment of 3g wireless communications equipment, products and services based on our cdma technology. although wireless network operators have commercially deployed cdma2000 and wcdma, we cannot predict the timing or success of further commercial deployments or expansions of cdma2000, wcdma or other cdma systems. if existing deployments are not commercially successful or do not continue to grow their subscriber base, or if new commercial deployments of cdma2000, wcdma or other cdma-based systems are delayed or unsuccessful, our business and financial results may be harmed. in addition, our business could be harmed if wireless network operators deploy other technologies or switch existing networks from cdma to gsm without upgrading to wcdma or if wireless 17 table of contents network operators introduce new technologies. a limited number of operators have started testing ofdma technology, but ofdma might not be adopted or deployed commercially and we might not be successful in developing and marketing ofdma products. our patent portfolio may not be as successful in generating licensing income with respect to other technologies as it has been for cdma-based technologies. although we own a very strong portfolio of issued and pending patents related to gprs, edge, ofdm, ofdma and mimo technologies, our patent portfolio licensing program in these areas is less established and might not be as successful in generating licensing income as our cdma portfolio licensing program. sprint nextel has indicated that it is planning to deploy wimax (an ofdma-based technology) in its 2.5 ghz spectrum, also known as the broadband radio services band. other operators are investigating deployment of wimax. other operators are considering lte, being standardized by 3gpp, or umb, being standardized by 3gpp2, as next generation technologies for deployment in existing or future spectrum bands. although we believe that our patented technology is essential and useful to implementation of the wimax, lte or umb standards, we might not achieve the same royalty revenue on such wimax, lte or umb deployments as on cdma/wcdma, and we might not achieve the same chipset market shares within a wimax, lte or umb network. our three largest customers accounted for 41% of consolidated revenues in fiscal 2007 and 39% in fiscal 2006 and 2005. the loss of any one of our major customers or any reduction in the demand for devices utilizing our cdma technology could reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or sustain desired levels of operating results. the loss of any one of our qct segment significant customers or the delay, even if only temporary, or cancellation of significant orders from any of these customers would reduce our revenues in the period of the cancellation or deferral and harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected levels of operating results. we derive a significant portion of our qct segment revenues from three major customers. accordingly, unless and until our qct segment diversifies and expands its customer base, our future success will significantly depend upon the timing and size of any future purchase orders from these customers. factors that may impact the size and timing of orders from customers of our qct segment include, among others, the following: the product requirements of our customers and the network operators; the financial and operational success of our customers; the success of our customers products that incorporate our products; changes in wireless penetration growth rates; value added features which drive replacement rates; shortages of key products and components; fluctuations in channel inventory levels; the success of products sold to our customers by competitors; the rate of deployment of new technology by the wireless network operators and the rate of adoption of new technology by the end consumers; the extent to which certain customers successfully develop and produce cdma-based integrated circuits and system software to meet their own needs or source such products from other suppliers; general economic conditions; changes in governmental regulations in countries where we or our customers currently operate or plan to operate; and widespread illness. we derive a significant portion of our royalty revenues in our qtl segment from a limited number of licensees and our future success depends on the ability of our licensees to obtain market acceptance for their products. our qtl segment derives royalty revenues primarily from sales of cdma products by our licensees. although we have more than 140 licensees, we derive a significant portion of our royalty revenue from a limited 18 table of contents number of licensees. our future success depends upon the ability of our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver high-volume products that achieve and sustain market acceptance. we have little or no control over the sales efforts of our licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. reductions in the average selling price of wireless communications devices utilizing our cdma technology, without a comparable increase in the volumes of such devices sold, could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may not be able to modify some of our license agreements to license later patents without modifying some of the other material terms and conditions of such license agreements, and such modifications may impact our revenues. the licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date, and, in a small number of agreements, royalties are payable on those patents for a specified time period. as a result, there are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us under our license agreements. in order to license any such later patents, we will need to extend or modify our license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees. we might not be able to modify such license agreements in the future to license any such later patents or extend such date(s) to incorporate later patents without affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees. in particular, we are party to an ongoing arbitration with nokia corp. relating to nokia continued sales after april 9, 2007 of products that incorporate certain qualcomm patents. one of our contentions in that proceeding (which nokia disputes) is that such use of our patents resulted in an extension of the license agreement, which also extends our rights to sell integrated circuits under nokia patents. we might not prevail in such arbitration. if we do not prevail, nokia right to sell certain subscriber products (such as cellular phones, wireless personal digital assistant and other devices) under most of our patents (including many that we have declared as potentially essential to the cdma, wcdma and other standards), and therefore nokia obligation to pay royalties to us under the terms of the current agreement, may both cease, and our rights under certain of nokia patents to sell integrated circuits under the terms of the current agreement may likewise cease. if we do not prevail, and the arbitration panel does not find nokia to have extended the license agreement, the above rights could be extended if nokia expressly elects to extend the agreement beyond april 9, 2007, a right that is exercisable through december 31, 2008 unless earlier terminated. efforts by some telecommunications equipment manufacturers and component suppliers to avoid paying fair and reasonable royalties for the use of our intellectual property may create uncertainty about our future business prospects, may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources, and may result in legal decisions and/or political actions by foreign governments that harm our business. a small number of companies have initiated various strategies in an attempt to renegotiate, mitigate and/or eliminate their need to pay royalties to us for the use of our intellectual property in order to negatively affect our business model and that of our other licensees. these strategies have included (i) litigation, often alleging infringement of patents held by such companies or unfair competition of some variety, (ii) taking questionable positions on the interpretation of contracts with us, with royalty reduction as the likely true motive, (iii) appeals to governmental authorities, such as the complaints filed with the european commission (ec) during the fourth calendar quarter of 2005 and with the korea fair trade commission (kftc) and the japan fair trade commission (jftc) during 2006, and (iv) lobbying with governmental regulators and elected officials for the purpose of seeking the imposition of some form of compulsory licensing and/or to weaken a patent holder ability to enforce its rights or obtain a fair return for such rights. a number of these strategies are purportedly based on interpretations of the polices of certain standards development organizations concerning the licensing of patents that are or may be essential to industry standards and our alleged failure to abide by these policies. we were notified by the competition directorate of the ec that six companies (nokia, ericsson, panasonic, texas instruments, broadcom and nec) submitted separate formal complaints accusing our business practices, with respect to licensing of patents and sales of chipsets, to be in violation of article 82 of the ec treaty. we received the complaints, have submitted a response and have cooperated with the ec in its investigation. on october 1, 2007, the ec announced that it has initiated a proceeding though it has not decided to issue a statement of objections, and it has not made any conclusions as to the merits of the complaints. while this action does not indicate that the ec has found any evidence of a violation by us and we believe that none of our business practices violate the legal requirements of article 82 of the ec treaty, if the ec determines liability as to any of the alleged violations, it could impose fines and/or require us to modify our practices. further, the continuation of this investigation could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. although such potential adverse findings may be appealed within the ec legal system, an adverse final determination could have a significant negative impact on our revenues and/or earnings. we also understand that 1) two u.s. companies (texas instruments and broadcom) and two south korean companies (nextreaming corp. and thinmultimedia inc.) have filed complaints with the kftc alleging that our business practices are, in some way, a violation of south korean 19 table of contents competition laws and 2) unnamed parties filed a complaint with the jftc allegedly claiming that our business practices are, in some way a violation of the japanese competition laws. while we have not seen any of these complaints in south korea or japan, we believe that none of our business practices violate the legal requirements of south korean competition law or japanese competition law. however, we have cooperated with the investigations of these complaints in south korea and japan, and any continuation or expansion of these investigations could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. an adverse final determination on these charges could have a significant negative impact on our business, including our revenues and/or earnings. although we believe that these challenges are without merit, and we will continue to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights and our right to continue to receive a fair return for our innovations, the distractions caused by challenges to our business model and licensing program are undesirable and the legal and other costs associated with defending our position have been and continue to be significant. we assume, as should investors, that such challenges will continue into the foreseeable future and may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources to explain and defend our position. the enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive and could divert our valuable resources. we rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes, including our patent portfolio. policing unauthorized use of our products and technologies is difficult and time consuming. we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully or as readily as united states laws. we cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country, including the united states, or the practices of any of the standards bodies, foreign or domestic, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing, issuance of wireless licenses or the adoption of standards, will not be changed in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. recent decisions from the united states courts relating to patents may affect the ability to enforce patent rights. within the united states senate and house of representatives, committee work has progressed to draft a patent reform law, with the house and senate committees each having reported a different draft bill to the full house and senate, respectively. the full house has adopted its committee draft bill. the end product of such work could be new patent legislation detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. any efforts we make to inform and educate policymakers about the effects of such potential changes may absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. the vast majority of our patents and patent applications relate to our wireless communications technology and much of the remainder of our patents and patent applications relate to our other technologies and products. we may need to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. as a result of any such litigation, we could lose our proprietary rights to one or more patents or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. any action we take to enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. in addition, failure to protect our trademark rights could impair our brand identity. claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property, that patents on which we rely are invalid, or that our business practices are in some way unlawful could adversely affect our business. from time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual proprietary rights against our products or products using our technologies or other technologies used in our industry. these claims have resulted and may again result in our involvement in litigation. we may not prevail in such litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if any of our products were found to infringe on another company intellectual property rights, we could be required to redesign our products, which could be costly, or license such rights and/or pay damages or other compensation to such other company. if we were unable to redesign our products or license such intellectual property rights used in our products, we could be prohibited from making and selling such products. we expect that we will continue to be involved in litigation and may have to appear in front of administrative bodies (such as the u.s. international trade commission) to defend against patent assertions against our products 20 table of contents by companies, some of whom are attempting to gain competitive advantage or negotiating leverage in licensing negotiations. we may not be successful and, if we are not, the range of possible outcomes includes everything from a royalty payment to an injunction on the sale of certain of our chipsets (and on the sale of our customers handsets using our chipsets) and the imposition of royalty payments that might make sales of our chipsets uneconomic. any such litigation could severely disrupt the business of our chipset customers and their wireless customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with our chipset customers and wireless operators and could result in a decline in our chipset market share and/or a reduction in our licensees sales to wireless operators, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. while we have had many settlement discussions with broadcom, they have not been fruitful to date, and the prospects for a reasonable settlement appear to be remote. to date, broadcom has insisted that any comprehensive settlement include the right to pass through to its customers intellectual property rights licensed by us to broadcom. any such arrangement could have a material impact on our licensing and royalty business model. in addition, as the number of competitors in our market increases and the functionality of our products expands to include additional technologies and features, we may become subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others. any claims, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming to address, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our operating results. in any potential dispute involving other companies patents or other intellectual property, our chipset customers could also become the targets of litigation. any such litigation could severely disrupt the business of our chipset customers and their wireless operator customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with our chipset customers and wireless operators and could result in a decline in our chipset market share and/or a reduction in our licensees sales to wireless operators, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. a number of other companies have claimed to own patents essential to various cdma standards, gsm standards and implementations of ofdm and ofdma systems. if we or other product manufacturers are required to obtain additional licenses and/or pay royalties to one or more patent holders, this could have a material adverse effect on the commercial implementation of our cdma or multimode products and technologies, demand for our licensees products, and our profitability. other companies or entities also have and may again commence actions seeking to establish the invalidity of our patents. in the event that one or more of our patents are challenged, a court may invalidate the patent(s) or determine that the patent(s) is not enforceable, which could harm our competitive position. if our key patents are invalidated, or if the scope of the claims in any of these patents is limited by court decision, we could be prevented from licensing the invalidated or limited portion of such patents. such adverse decisions could negatively impact our revenues. even if such a patent challenge is not successful, it could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. our industry is subject to competition that could result in decreased demand for our products and the products of our customers and licensees and/or declining average selling prices for our licensees products and our products, negatively affecting our revenues and operating results. we currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that competition will continue. competition in the telecommunications market is affected by various factors, including: comprehensiveness of products and technologies; value added features which drive replacement rates; manufacturing capability; scalability and the ability of the system technology to meet customers immediate and future network requirements; product performance and quality; design and engineering capabilities; compliance with industry standards; time-to-market; system cost; and customer support. 21 table of contents this competition may result in increased development costs and reduced average selling prices for our products and those of our customers and licensees. reductions in the average selling price of our licensees products, unless offset by an increase in volumes, generally result in reduced royalties payable to us. while pricing pressures from competition may, to a large extent, be mitigated by the introduction of new features and functionality in our licensees products, there is no guarantee that such mitigation will occur. we anticipate that additional competitors will enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in wireless telecommunications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in selected segments of the industry. companies that promote non-cdma technologies (e.g. gsm and wimax) and companies that design competing cdma-based integrated circuits are generally included amongst our competitors or potential competitors in the united states or abroad. examples (some of whom are strategic partners of ours in other areas) include broadcom, eonex technologies, ericsson, freescale, fujitsu, intel, lsi corporation, nec, nokia, samsung, texas instruments and via telecom. with respect to our qes business, our competitors are aggressively pricing products and services and are offering new value-added products and services which may impact margins, intensify competition in current and new markets and harm our ability to compete in certain markets. many of these current and potential competitors have advantages over us, including: longer operating histories and presence in key markets; greater name recognition; motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to find alternate suppliers; access to larger customer bases; economies of scale and cost structure advantages; and greater sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we have. as a result of these and other factors, our competitors may be more successful than us. in addition, we anticipate additional competitors will enter the market for products based on 3g standards. these competitors may have more established relationships and distribution channels in markets not currently deploying cdma-based wireless communications technology. these competitors also may have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with our existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. these relationships may affect our customers decisions to purchase products or license technology from us. accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share to our detriment. in addition to the foregoing, we have seen, and believe we will continue to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including chipsets, that will operate in an open source environment. developing open source compliant products, without imperiling the intellectual property rights upon which our licensing business depends, may prove difficult under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage for new product designs. while we continue to believe our qmt division imod displays will offer compelling advantages to the display market, there can be no assurance that other technologies will not continue to improve in ways that reduce the advantages we anticipate from our imod displays. the flat panel display market is currently, and we believe will likely continue to be for some time, dominated by displays based on liquid crystal display (lcd) technology. numerous companies are making substantial investments in, and conducting research to improve characteristics of lcds. additionally, several other flat panel display technologies have been, or are being, developed, including technologies for the production of organic light-emitting diode (oled), field emission, inorganic electroluminescence, gas plasma and vacuum fluorescent displays. in each case, advances in lcd or other flat panel display technologies could result in technologies that are more cost effective, have fewer display limitations, or can be brought to market faster than our imod technology. these advances in competing technologies might cause display manufacturers to avoid entering into commercial relationships with us, or not renew planned or existing relationships with us. our qmt division had $215 million in assets (including $128 million in goodwill) at 22 table of contents september 30, 2007. if we are not successful in bringing our imod display technology to market, our assets may become impaired, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. successful attempts by certain companies to amend or modify standards development organizations (sdo s) and other industry forums intellectual property policies could impact our licensing business. some companies have proposed significant changes to existing intellectual property policies for implementation by sdo and other industry organizations, some of which would require a maximum aggregate intellectual property royalty rate for the use of all essential patents owned by all of the member companies to be applied to the selling price of any product implementing the relevant standard. they have further proposed that such maximum aggregate royalty rate be apportioned to each member company with essential patents based upon the size of its essential patent portfolio. although the european telecommunications standards institute (etsi) ad hoc ipr group and the next generation mobile network industry group have thus far determined that such proposals should not be adopted as amendments to existing etsi policies or new policies, such proposals as described above might be revisited by etsi and might be adopted by other sdo or industry groups, resulting in a disadvantage to our business model either by limiting our return on investment with respect to new technologies or forcing us to work outside of the sdo or such other industry groups for promoting our new technologies. we depend upon a limited number of third party suppliers to manufacture component parts, subassemblies and finished goods for our products. if these third party suppliers do not allocate adequate manufacturing capacity in their facilities to manufacture products on our behalf, or if there are any disruptions in the operations of, or the loss of, any of these third parties, it could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers, reduce our revenue, increase our cost of sales and harm our business. our ability to meet customer demand depends, in part, on available manufacturing capacity and our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of parts and components from our suppliers. component shortages or declines in demand could adversely affect our ability and that of our customers to ship products on a timely basis could harm our ability to achieve or sustain desired levels of profitability. additionally, failure to meet customer demand in a timely manner could damage our reputation and harm our customer relationships. our operations may also be harmed by lengthy or recurring disruptions at any of our suppliers manufacturing facilities and by disruptions in the distribution channels from our suppliers and to our customers. any such disruptions could cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift the products from an affected manufacturer to another manufacturer. if the affected supplier was a sole source supplier, we may not be able to obtain the product without significant cost and delay. the loss of a significant third party supplier or the inability of a third party supplier to meet performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers and negatively impact our revenues and business operations. qct segment. a supplier ability to meet our product manufacturing demand is limited mainly by their overall capacity and current capacity availability. although we have entered into long-term contracts with our suppliers, most of these contracts do not provide for long-term capacity commitments. to the extent that we do not have firm commitments from our suppliers over a specific time period, or in any specific quantity, our suppliers may allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production of products for their other customers while reducing capacity to manufacture our products. accordingly, capacity for our products may not be available when we need it or available at reasonable prices. there can be no assurance that we will not experience supply constraints, which could result in our failure to meet customer demand. while our goal is to establish alternate suppliers for technologies that we consider critical, some of our integrated circuits products are only available from single sources, with which we do not have long-term contracts. our reliance on sole or limited-source suppliers involves significant risks including possible shortages of manufacturing capacity, poor product performance and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability and yields, quality assurance, quantity and costs. the timely readiness of our foundry suppliers to support transitions to smaller geometry process technologies could impact our ability to meet customer demand, revenue, and cost expectations. in addition, the timing of acceptance of smaller technology designs by our customers may subject us to the risk of excess inventories of earlier designs. in the event of a loss of, or a decision to change a key third party supplier, qualifying a new foundry supplier and commencing volume production or testing could involve delay and expense, resulting in lost revenues, reduced operating margins and possible loss of customers. we work closely with our customers to expedite their processes for evaluating new integrated circuits from our foundry suppliers; however, in some instances, transition of 23 table of contents integrated circuit production to a new foundry supplier may cause a temporary decline in shipments of specific integrated circuits to individual customers. qmt division. qmt needs to form and maintain reliable business relationships with flat panel display manufacturers or other targeted partners to support the manufacture of imod displays in commercial volumes. all of our current relationships have been for the development and limited production of certain imod display panels and/or modules. some or all of these relationships may not succeed or, even if they are successful, may not result in the display manufacturers entering into material supply relationships with us. we have expanded our qct segment manufacturing model to include the purchase of completed die from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and to contract directly with third party manufacturers for assembly and test services. this new production model may increase costs and lower our control over the manufacturing process. to further enable flexibility of supply and access to potential new foundry suppliers, and in response to the complexity of our product roadmap, starting in fiscal 2005, we expanded our manufacturing model to include purchasing completed die directly from semiconductor manufacturing foundries. under our integrated fabless manufacturing (ifm) model, we contract directly with third party manufacturers for back-end assembly and test services, and we ship the completed integrated circuits to our customers. we expect to increase the volume of our purchases of completed die directly from our foundry suppliers under our ifm model as we source new products and convert existing turnkey production to our ifm model. we are unable to directly control the services provided by our semiconductor assembly and test (sat) suppliers, including the timely procurement of packaging materials for our products, availability of assembly and test capacity, quality assurance and product delivery schedules. we have a limited history of working with the sat suppliers under this expanded manufacturing model, and cannot guarantee that this change and our lack of control will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers, reduce our revenue, or increase our cost of sales. our suppliers may also be our competitors putting us at a disadvantage for pricing and capacity allocation. one or more of our suppliers may obtain licenses from us to manufacture cdma-based integrated circuits that compete with our products. in this event, the supplier could elect to allocate raw materials and manufacturing capacity to their own products and reduce deliveries to us to our detriment. in addition, we may not receive reasonable pricing, manufacturing or delivery terms. we cannot guarantee that the actions of our suppliers will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost of sales. we, and our licensees, are subject to the risks of conducting business outside the united states. a significant part of our strategy involves our continued pursuit of growth opportunities in a number of international markets. we market, sell and service our products internationally. we have established sales offices around the world. we expect to continue to expand our international sales operations and enter new international markets. this expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources to successfully develop direct and indirect international sales and support channels, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful or that our expenditures in this effort will not exceed the amount of any resulting revenues. if we are not able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products and technologies, we may not be able to maintain a desired rate of growth in our business. our international customers sell their products to markets throughout the world, including china, india, japan, south korea, north america, south america and europe. we distinguish revenues from external customers by geographic areas based on the location to which our products, software or services are delivered and, for qtl licensing and royalty revenue, the domicile of our licensees. consolidated revenues from international customers as a percentage of total revenues were 87% in fiscal 2007 and 2006 and 82% in fiscal 2005. because most of our foreign sales are denominated in u.s. dollars, our products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold in u.s. dollars become less price-competitive in international markets if the value of the u.s. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies, and our revenues may not grow as quickly as they otherwise might in response to worldwide growth in wireless products and services. in many international markets, barriers to entry are created by long-standing relationships between our potential customers and their local service providers and protective regulations, including local content and service requirements. in addition, our pursuit of international growth opportunities may require significant investments for 24 table of contents an extended period before we realize returns, if any, on our investments. our business could be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors, including: difficulty in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights and/or contracts in a particular foreign jurisdiction, including challenges to our licensing practices under such jurisdictions competition laws; our inability to succeed in significant foreign markets, such as china, india or europe; cultural differences in the conduct of business; difficulty in attracting qualified personnel and managing foreign activities; longer payment cycles for and greater difficulties collecting accounts receivable; export controls, tariffs and other trade protection measures; nationalization, expropriation and limitations on repatriation of cash; social, economic and political instability; natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war; taxation; variability in the value of the dollar against foreign currency; and changes in laws and policies affecting trade, foreign investments, licensing practices and loans. we cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing, issuance of wireless licenses or the adoption of standards will not be changed or enforced in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. the wireless markets in china and india, among others, represent growth opportunities for us. if wireless operators in china or india, or the governments of china or india, make technology deployment or other decisions that result in actions that are adverse to the expansion of cdma technologies, our business could be harmed. we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide subsidies on wireless device sales to their customers. increases in device prices that negatively impact device sales can result from changes in regulatory policies related to device subsidies. limitations or changes in policy on device subsidies in south korea, japan, china and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues. global economic conditions that impact the wireless communications industry could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. global economic conditions can have wide-ranging effects on markets that we serve, particularly wireless communications equipment manufacturers and wireless network operators. we cannot predict negative events, such as war, that may have adverse effects on the economy or on wireless device inventories at cdma-based equipment manufacturers and operators. the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause disruptions to the global economy and to the wireless communications industry and create uncertainties. recent reports suggest that inflation could have adverse effects on the global economy and capital markets. inflation and/or deflation and economic recessions could adversely affect our customers, including their ability to obtain financing, upgrade wireless networks and purchase our products and services, and our end consumers, by lowering their standards of living and diminishing their ability to purchase wireless devices based on our technology. inflation could also increase our costs of raw materials and operating expenses and harm our business in other ways. during fiscal 2007, 69% of our revenues were from customers and licensees based in south korea, japan and china, as compared to 70% and 69% during fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. these customers sell their products to markets worldwide, including japan, south korea, china, india, north america, south america and europe. a significant downturn in the economies of asian countries where many of our customers and licensees are located, particularly the economies of south korea, japan and china, or the economies of the major markets they serve would materially harm our business. should such 25 table of contents negative events occur, subsequent economic recovery might not benefit us in the near term. if it does not, our ability to increase or maintain our revenues and operating results may be impaired. in addition, because we intend to continue to make significant investments in research and development and to maintain extensive ongoing customer service and support capability, any decline in the rate of growth of our revenues will have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenue, harm our ability to collect receivables, or increase the u.s. dollar cost of the activities of our foreign subsidiaries and international strategic investments. we are exposed to risk from fluctuations in currencies, which may change over time as our business practices evolve, that could impact our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. we operate and invest globally. adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business due to a number of situations, including the following: if the effective price of products sold by our customers were to increase as a result of fluctuations in the exchange rate of the relevant currencies, demand for the products could fall, which in turn would reduce our royalty and chipset revenues. declines in currency values in selected regions may adversely affect our operating results because our products and those of our customers and licensees may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. assets or liabilities of our consolidated subsidiaries and our foreign investees that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations, which may affect our reported earnings. our exposure to foreign currencies may increase as we expand into new markets. investments in our consolidated foreign subsidiaries and in other foreign entities that use the local currency as the functional currency may decline in value as a result of declines in local currency values. certain of our revenues, such as royalty revenues, are derived from licensee or customer sales that are denominated in foreign currencies. if these revenues are not subject to foreign exchange hedging transactions, weakening of currency values in selected regions could adversely affect our anticipated revenues and cash flows. we may engage in foreign exchange hedging transactions that could affect our cash flows and earnings because they may require the payment of structuring fees, and they may limit the u.s. dollar value of royalties from licensees sales that are denominated in foreign currencies. our trade receivables are generally u.s. dollar denominated. any significant increase in the value of the dollar against our customers or licensees functional currencies could result in an increase in our customers or licensees cash flow requirements and could consequently affect our ability to sell products and collect receivables. strengthening of currency values in selected regions may adversely affect our operating results because the activities of our foreign subsidiaries may become more expensive in u.s. dollars. strengthening of currency values in selected regions may adversely affect our cash flows and investment results because strategic investment obligations denominated in foreign currencies may become more expensive, and the u.s. dollar cost of equity in losses of foreign investees may increase. we may engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make investments that could result in significant changes or management disruption and fail to enhance stockholder value. from time to time, we engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make investments with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. we acquire businesses, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase equity and debt securities, including minority interests in publicly-traded and private companies, non-investment grade debt securities, equity and debt mutual funds, corporate bonds/notes and mortgage/asset-backed securities. many of our strategic investments are in cdma wireless operators, early-stage companies, or venture funds to support our business, including the global adoption of cdma-based technologies and related services. 26 table of contents most of our strategic investments entail a high degree of risk and will not become liquid until more than one year from the date of investment, if at all. our acquisitions or strategic investments (either those we have completed or may undertake in the future) may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies. in addition, our other investments may not generate financial returns or may result in losses due to market volatility, the general level of interest rates and inflation expectations. achieving the anticipated benefits of acquisitions depends in part upon our ability to integrate the acquired businesses in an efficient and effective manner. the integration of companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, and we may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. the difficulties of integrating companies include, among others: retaining key employees; maintenance of important relationships of qualcomm and the acquired business; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business matters; coordinating geographically separate organizations; consolidating research and development operations; and consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. we cannot assure you that the integration of acquired businesses with our business will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated by us to result from the acquisition. we may not derive any commercial value from the acquired technology, products and intellectual property or from future technologies and products based on the acquired technology and/or intellectual property, and we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by indemnification protection we may obtain. defects or errors in our products and services or in products made by our suppliers could harm our relations with our customers and expose us to liability. similar problems related to the products of our customers or licensees could harm our business. if we experience product liability claims or recalls, we may incur significant expenses and experience decreased demand for our products. our products are inherently complex and may contain defects and errors that are detected only when the products are in use. for example, as our chipset product complexities increase, we are required to migrate to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes. the design process interface issues are more complex as we enter into these new domains of technology, which adds risk to yields and reliability. because our products and services are responsible for critical functions in our customers products and/or networks, such defects or errors could have a serious impact on our customers, which could damage our reputation, harm our customer relationships and expose us to liability. defects or impurities in our components, materials or software or those used by our customers or licensees, equipment failures or other difficulties could adversely affect our ability and that of our customers and licensees to ship products on a timely basis as well as customer or licensee demand for our products. any such shipment delays or declines in demand could reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or sustain desired levels of profitability. we and our customers or licensees may also experience component or software failures or defects that could require significant product recalls, reworks and/or repairs that are not covered by warranty reserves and which could consume a substantial portion of the capacity of our third party manufacturers or those of our customers or licensees. resolving any defect or failure related issues could consume financial and/or engineering resources that could affect future product release schedules. additionally, a defect or failure in our products or the products of our customers or licensees could harm our reputation and/or adversely affect the growth of 3g wireless markets. testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our products and those of our licensees and customers entail the risk of product liability. the use of wireless devices containing our products to access untrusted content creates a risk of exposing the system software in those devices to viral or malicious attacks. we continue to expand our focus on this issue and take measures to safeguard the software from this threat. however, this issue carries the risk of general product liability claims along with the associated impacts on reputation and demand. although we carry product liability insurance to protect against product liability claims, we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to protect us against losses due to product liability claims, or that we will be able to continue to maintain such insurance at a reasonable cost. furthermore, not all losses associated with alleged product 27 table of contents failure are insurable. our inability to maintain insurance at an acceptable cost or to protect ourselves in other ways against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products and those of our licensees and customers and harm our future operating results. in addition, a product liability claim or recall, whether against our licensees, customers, or us could harm our reputation and result in decreased demand for our products. mediaflo does not fully control promotional activities necessary to stimulate demand for our services. our mediaflo business is a wholesale provider of mobile entertainment and information services to our operator partners. as such, we do not set the retail price of our service to the consumer, nor do we directly control the marketing and promotion of the service to the operator subscriber base. therefore, we are dependent upon our operator partners to price, market and otherwise promote our services to the end users. if our operator partners do not effectively price, market and otherwise promote the service to their subscriber base, our ability to achieve the subscriber and revenue targets contemplated in our business plan will be negatively impacted. consumer acceptance and adoption of our mediaflo technology will have a considerable impact on the success of our mediaflo businesses. customer acceptance of the services our mediaflo businesses offer is, and will continue to be, affected by technology-based differences and by the operational performance, quality, reliability and coverage of our wireless network. consumer demand could be impacted by differences in technology, coverage and service areas, network quality, consumer perceptions, media content offerings and rate plans. our operator partners may have difficulty retaining subscribers if we are unable to meet our customers expectations for network quality and coverage, customer care or content. obtaining content that is appealing to subscribers on economically rational terms may be limited by pre-existing exclusivity agreements content providers have with their customers as well as limitations placed on some content with respect to rights for mobile programming. an inability to address those issues could limit our ability to expand our subscriber base and place us at a competitive disadvantage as well as affect our ability to attract new subscribers. additionally, adoption and deployment of our mediaflo technology could be adversely impacted by government regulatory practices that support a single standard other than our technology, operator selection of competing technologies or consumer preferences. our business and operating results will be harmed if we are unable to manage growth in our business. certain of our businesses have experienced periods of rapid growth and/or increased their international activities, placing significant demands on our managerial, operational and financial resources. in order to manage growth and geographic expansion, we must continue to improve and develop our management, operational and financial systems and controls, including quality control and delivery and service capabilities. we also need to continue to expand, train and manage our employee base. we must carefully manage research and development capabilities and production and inventory levels to meet product demand, new product introductions and product and technology transitions. we cannot assure you that we will be able to timely and effectively meet that demand and maintain the quality standards required by our existing and potential customers and licensees. in addition, inaccuracies in our demand forecasts, or failure of the systems used to develop the forecasts, could quickly result in either insufficient or excessive inventories and disproportionate overhead expenses. if we ineffectively manage our growth or are unsuccessful in recruiting and retaining personnel, our business and operating results will be harmed. our operating results are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market downturns. our revenues, earnings and other operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. general economic or other conditions causing a downturn in the market for our products or technology, and in turn affecting the timing of customer orders or causing cancellations or rescheduling of orders, could also adversely affect our operating results. moreover, our customers may change delivery schedules, cancel or reduce orders without incurring significant penalties and generally are not subject to minimum purchase requirements. our future operating results will be affected by many factors, including, but not limited to: our ability to retain existing or secure anticipated customers or licensees, both domestically and internationally; our ability to develop, introduce and market new technology, products and services on a timely basis; management of inventory by us and our customers and their customers in response to shifts in market demand; changes in the mix of technology and 28 table of contents products developed, licensed, produced and sold; seasonal customer demand; and other factors described elsewhere in this annual report and in these risk factors. our cash investments represent a significant asset that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements and financial market conditions in fixed income and equity securities. these factors affecting our future operating results are difficult to forecast and could harm our quarterly and/or annual operating results. if our operating results fail to meet the financial guidance we provide to investors, or the expectations of investment analysts or investors in any period, securities class action litigation could be brought against us and/or the market price of our common stock could decline. our stock price may be volatile. the stock market in general, and the stock prices of technology-based and wireless communications companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company. the market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future as well. factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock include: announcements concerning us or our competitors, including the selection of wireless communications technology by wireless operators and the timing of the roll-out of those systems; court or regulatory body decisions or settlements regarding intellectual property licensing and patent litigation and arbitration; receipt of substantial orders or order cancellations for integrated circuits and system software products; quality deficiencies in services or products; announcements regarding financial developments or technological innovations; international developments, such as technology mandates, political developments or changes in economic policies; lack of capital to invest in 3g networks; new commercial products; changes in recommendations of securities analysts; general stock market volatility; government regulations, including share-based compensation accounting and tax regulations; energy blackouts; acts of terrorism and war; inflation and deflation; widespread illness; proprietary rights or product or patent litigation against us or against our customers or licensees; strategic transactions, such as spin-offs, acquisitions and divestitures; or rumors or allegations regarding our financial disclosures or practices. our future earnings and stock price may be subject to volatility, particularly on a quarterly basis. shortfalls in our revenues or earnings in any given period relative to the levels expected by securities analysts could immediately, significantly and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. in the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. due to changes in the volatility of our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. securities and patent litigation could result in substantial uninsured costs and divert management attention and resources. in addition, stock price volatility may be precipitated by failure to meet earnings expectations or other factors, such as the potential uncertainty in future reported earnings created by 29 table of contents the assumptions used for share-based compensation and the related valuation models used to determine such expense. our industry is subject to rapid technological change, and we must make substantial investments in new products and technologies to compete successfully. new technological innovations generally require a substantial investment before they are commercially viable. we intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing new products and technologies, and it is possible that our development efforts will not be successful and that our new technologies will not result in meaningful revenues. in particular, we intend to continue to invest significant resources in developing integrated circuit products to support high-speed wireless internet access and multimode, multiband, multinetwork operation and multimedia applications, which encompass development of graphical display, camera and video capabilities, as well as higher computational capability and lower power on-chip computers and signal processors. we also continue to invest in the development of our brew applications development platform, our mediaflo mds and flo technology and our imod display technology. all of these new products and technologies face significant competition, and we cannot assure you that the revenues generated from these products or the timing of the deployment of these products or technologies, which may be dependent on the actions of others, will meet our expectations. we cannot be certain that we will make the additional advances in development that may be essential to commercialize our imod technology successfully. the market for our products and technology is characterized by many factors, including: rapid technological advances and evolving industry standards; changes in customer requirements; frequent introductions of new products and enhancements; evolving methods for transmission of wireless voice and data communications; and intense competition from companies with greater resources, customer relationships and distribution capabilities. our future success will depend on our ability to continue to develop and introduce new products, technology and enhancements on a timely basis. our future success will also depend on our ability to keep pace with technological developments, protect our intellectual property, satisfy customer requirements, price our products competitively and achieve market acceptance. the introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products and technology, and products and technology currently under development, obsolete and unmarketable. if we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments or customer requirements, or experience any significant delays in development, introduction or shipment of our products and technology in commercial quantities, demand for our products and our customers and licensees products that use our technology could decrease, and our competitive position could be damaged. changes in assumptions used to estimate the values of share-based compensation have a significant effect on our reported results. we are required to estimate and record compensation expense in the statement of operations for share-based payments, such as employee stock options, using the fair value method. this method has a significant effect on our reported earnings, although it will not affect our cash flows, and could adversely impact our ability to provide accurate guidance on our future reported financial results due to the variability of the factors used to estimate the values of share-based payments. if factors change and/or we employ different assumptions or different valuation methods in future periods, the compensation expense that we record may differ significantly from amounts recorded previously, which could negatively affect our stock price and our stock price volatility. the accounting guidance for share-based compensation is relatively new, and best practices are not well established. the application of these principles may be subject to further interpretation and refinement over time. there are significant differences among valuation models, and there is a possibility that we will adopt different valuation models in the future. this may result in a lack of consistency in future periods and materially affect the fair value estimate of share-based payments. it may also result in a lack of comparability with other companies that use different models, methods and assumptions. 30 table of contents theoretical valuation models and market-based methods are evolving and may result in lower or higher fair value estimates for share-based compensation. the timing, readiness, adoption, general acceptance, reliability and testing of these methods is uncertain. sophisticated mathematical models may require voluminous historical information, modeling expertise, financial analyses, correlation analyses, integrated software and databases, consulting fees, customization and testing for adequacy of internal controls. market-based methods are emerging that, if employed by us, may dilute our earnings per share and involve significant transaction fees and ongoing administrative expenses. the uncertainties and costs of these extensive valuation efforts may outweigh the benefits to our investors. potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. in such case, a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods in which that determination is made could result. in addition, tax rules may change that may adversely affect our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. for example, we consider the operating earnings of certain non-united states subsidiaries to be invested indefinitely outside the united states based on estimates that future domestic cash generation will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs. no provision has been made for united states federal and state or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. our future reported financial results may be adversely affected if tax or accounting rules regarding unrepatriated earnings change or if domestic cash needs require us to repatriate foreign earnings. the high amount of capital required to obtain radio frequency licenses, deploy and expand wireless networks and obtain new subscribers could slow the growth of the wireless communications industry and adversely affect our business. our growth is dependent upon the increased use of wireless communications services that utilize our technology. in order to provide wireless communications services, wireless operators must obtain rights to use specific radio frequencies. the allocation of frequencies is regulated in the united states and other countries throughout the world, and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless communications services. industry growth may be affected by the amount of capital required to: obtain licenses to use new frequencies; deploy wireless networks to offer voice and data services; expand wireless networks to grow voice and data services; and obtain new subscribers. the significant cost of licenses, wireless networks and subscriber additions may slow the growth of the industry if wireless operators are unable to obtain or service the additional capital necessary to implement or expand 3g wireless networks. our growth could be adversely affected if this occurs. if wireless devices pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers may decrease. concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions, even if unfounded, may have the effect of discouraging the use of wireless devices, which would decrease demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers. in recent years, the fcc and foreign regulatory agencies have updated the guidelines and methods they use for evaluating radio frequency emissions from radio equipment, including wireless phones and other wireless devices. in addition, interest groups have requested that the fcc investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and medical devices. concerns have also been expressed over the possibility of safety risks due to a lack of attention associated with the use of wireless devices while driving. any legislation that may be adopted in response to these expressions of concern could reduce demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers in the united states as well as foreign countries. our qes and mediaflo businesses depend on the availability of satellite and other networks. our omnitracs and omnivision systems operate on leased ku-band satellite transponders in the united states, mexico and europe. our primary data satellite transponder and position reporting satellite transponder lease for these systems runs through october 2012 and includes transponder and satellite protection (back-up capacity in the event of a transponder or satellite failure), which we believe will provide sufficient transponder capacity for our united states omnitracs and omnivision operations through fiscal 2012. a failure to maintain adequate satellite 31 table of contents capacity could harm our business, operating results, liquidity and financial position. qes terrestrial-based products rely on wireless terrestrial communication networks operated by third parties. the unavailability or nonperformance of these network systems could harm our business. the products and services that we sell for use on globalstar inc. (globalstar) low-earth-orbit satellite network are dependent on the availability and performance of the globalstar satellite system. on february 6, 2007, globalstar announced that many globalstar satellites are experiencing an anomaly resulting in degraded performance of the amplifiers for the s-band satellite communications antenna. globalstar stated that unless remedied, by some time in 2008, this degradation or degraded performance will have a significant adverse impact on globalstar ability to provide uninterrupted two-way voice and data services on a continuous basis in any given location. on may 30, 2007, globalstar announced that four globalstar satellites were successfully launched, and four additional satellites are planned for launch shortly. globalstar stated that it believes the additional satellites will augment the current operating constellation and improve two-way voice and data services until the launch of the second-generation satellite constellation, which is scheduled to begin in the summer of 2009. if the recent launch of the satellites does not remedy the problem or if globalstar is unable to launch a second-generation satellite constellation, this degraded performance will have an adverse impact on sales of our products and services that rely on the globalstar network. our mediaflo network and systems currently operate in the united states market on a leased ku-band satellite transponder. our primary program content and data distribution satellite transponder lease runs through december 31, 2012 and includes transponder and satellite protection (back-up capacity in the event of a transponder or satellite failure), which we believe will provide sufficient transponder capacity for our domestic united states mediaflo services through fiscal 2012. additionally our mediaflo transmitter sites are monitored and controlled by a variety of terrestrial-based data circuits relying on various terrestrial communication networks operated by third parties. a failure to maintain adequate satellite capacity or the unavailability or nonperformance of the terrestrial-based network systems could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology networking systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations or to our customers or licensees operations could result in a material disruption to our business. to the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our customers data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. in addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. message transmissions for qes operations are formatted and processed at the network management center in san diego, california, with a fully redundant backup network management center located in las vegas, nevada. content from third parties for mediaflo operations is received, processed and retransmitted at the broadcast operations center in san diego, california. the centers, operated by us, are subject to system failures, which could interrupt the services and have an adverse effect on our operating results. from time to time, we install new or upgraded business management systems. to the extent such systems fail or are not properly implemented, we may experience material disruptions to our business, delays in our external financial reporting or failures in our system of internal controls, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. noncompliance with environmental or safety regulations could cause us to incur significant expenses and harm our business. as part of the development of our imod display technology, we are operating a research and development fabrication facility. the development of imod display prototypes is a complex and precise process involving hazardous materials subject to environmental and safety regulations. failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental and safety regulations could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines and/or the suspension or termination of development activities. our stock repurchase program may not result in a positive return of capital to stockholders. at september 30, 2007, we have remaining authority to repurchase up to $1.5 billion of our common stock, net of put options outstanding. our stock repurchases may not return value to stockholders because the market price of 32 table of contents the stock may decline significantly below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock. our stock purchase program is intended to deliver stockholder value over the long-term, but stock price fluctuations can reduce the program effectiveness. as part of our stock repurchase program, we may sell put options or engage in structured derivative transactions to reduce the cost of repurchasing stock. in the event of a significant and unexpected drop in stock price, these arrangements may require us to repurchase stock at price levels that are significantly above the then-prevailing market price of our stock. such overpayments may have an adverse effect on the effectiveness of our overall stock repurchase program and may reduce value for our stockholders. we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. we intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders. future dividends may be affected by, among other items, our views on potential future capital requirements, including those related to research and development, creation and expansion of sales distribution channels and investments and acquisitions, legal risks, stock repurchase programs, changes in federal income tax law and changes to our business model. our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. a reduction in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price. government regulation and policies of industry standards bodies may adversely affect our business. our products and those of our customers and licensees are subject to various regulations, including fcc regulations in the united states and other international regulations, as well as the specifications of national, regional and international standards bodies. changes in the regulation of our activities, including changes in the allocation of available spectrum by the united states government and other governments or exclusion or limitation of our technology or products by a government or standards body, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, liquidity and financial position. we hold licenses in the united states from the fcc for the spectrum referred to as block d in the lower 700 mhz band (also known as tv channel 55), covering the entire nation for use in our mediaflo business. as a result, we are regulated by the fcc pursuant to part 27 of the fcc rules, which are subject to a variety of ongoing fcc proceedings. it is impossible to predict with certainty the outcome of pending fcc or other federal or state regulatory proceedings relating to our mediaflo service or our use of the spectrum for which we hold licenses. unless we are able to obtain relief, existing laws and regulations may inhibit our ability to expand our business and to introduce new products and services. in addition, the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to the existing regulatory framework could adversely affect our business plans. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our board members, executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. in addition, implementing our product and business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, and our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. the market for such specialized engineering and other talented employees in our industry is extremely competitive. in addition, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of u.s. universities, making the pool of available talent even smaller. key employees represent a significant asset, and the competition for these employees is intense in the wireless communications industry. in the event of a labor shortage, or in the event of an unfavorable change in prevailing labor and/or immigration laws, we could experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified employees. we continue to anticipate increases in human resources, particularly in engineering, through fiscal 2008. if we are unable to attract and retain the qualified employees that we need, our business may be harmed. we may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel in periods of poor operating performance given the significant use of incentive compensation by our competitors. we do not have employment agreements with our key management personnel and do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our personnel. to the extent that new regulations make it less attractive to grant options to employees or if stockholders do not authorize shares for the continuation of equity compensation programs in the future, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. 33 table of contents compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time. we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. complying with evolving interpretations of new or changed legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and procedures, and may divert management time and attention from revenue generating to compliance activities. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation might also be harmed. in addition, it has become more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we have purchased reduced coverage at substantially higher cost than in the past. further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. our charter documents and delaware law could limit transactions in which stockholders might obtain a premium over current market prices. our certificate of incorporation includes a provision that requires the approval of holders of at least 66 2/3% of our voting stock as a condition to certain mergers or other business transactions with, or proposed by, a holder of 15% or more of our voting stock. under our charter documents, stockholders are not permitted to call special meetings of our stockholders or to act by written consent. these charter provisions may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change in our control, including those offering stockholders a premium over current market prices. these provisions may also limit our stockholders ability to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. further, our board of directors has the authority under delaware law to fix the rights and preferences of and issue shares of preferred stock, and our preferred share purchase rights agreement will cause substantial dilution to the ownership of a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors. while our board of directors approved our preferred share purchase rights agreement to provide the board with greater ability to maximize shareholder value, these rights could deter takeover attempts that the board finds inadequate and make it more difficult to bring about a change in our ownership. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. we invest our cash in a number of diversified investment and non-investment grade fixed and floating rate securities, consisting of cash equivalents, marketable debt securities and debt mutual funds. changes in the general level of united states interest rates can affect the principal values and yields of fixed interest-bearing securities. if interest rates in the general economy were to rise rapidly in a short period of time, our fixed interest-bearing securities could lose value. if the general economy were to weaken significantly, the credit profile, financial strength and growth prospects of issuers of interest-bearing securities held in our investment portfolios could deteriorate, and our interest-bearing securities could lose value. we may implement investment strategies of different types with varying duration and risk/return trade-offs that do not perform well. the following table provides information about our interest-bearing securities that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. the table presents principal cash flows, weighted average yield at cost and contractual maturity dates. additionally, we have assumed that these securities are similar enough within the specified categories to aggregate these securities for presentation purposes. 57 table of contents interest rate sensitivity principal amount by expected maturity average interest rates (dollars in millions) no single 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter maturity total fixed interest-bearing securities: cash and cash equivalents $ 543 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 543 interest rate 5.4 % available-for-sale securities: investment grade $ 1,851 $ 289 $ 163 $ 57 $ 20 $ 10 $ 405 $ 2,795 interest rate 5.1 % 5.2 % 4.8 % 5.5 % 5.4 % 7.4 % 5.4 % non-investment grade $ 12 $ 16 $ 13 $ 44 $ 41 $ 368 $ $ 494 interest rate 5.3 % 7.0 % 8.9 % 8.3 % 8.0 % 8.5 % floating interest-bearing securities: cash and cash equivalents $ 1,719 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,719 interest rate 5.4 % available-for-sale securities: investment grade $ 213 $ 214 $ 202 $ 56 $ 78 $ 94 $ 531 $ 1,388 interest rate 5.5 % 5.7 % 5.8 % 5.7 % 5.9 % 5.8 % 5.8 % non-investment grade $ 12 $ 11 $ 28 $ 65 $ 118 $ 391 $ 712 $ 1,337 interest rate 6.7 % 7.0 % 7.3 % 7.4 % 7.1 % 7.4 % 7.1 % cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value. mortgage risk. a small portion of our diversified investment program includes investment-grade mortgage- and asset-backed securities. in fiscal 2007, following a multi-year housing industry expansion, mortgage industry excesses became apparent and caused concern among investors in pools of residential mortgages or other assets securitized by them. we have no direct investments in the lowest credit quality, or subprime, mortgages nor investments collateralized by assets that include subprime mortgages. we have indirect exposure to subprime mortgages to the extent of our investments in large, diversified financial companies, commercial banks, insurance companies and public/private investment funds that participate or invest in subprime mortgage loans, mortgage insurance, or loan servicing, which could impact the fair values of our securities. equity price risk. we have a diversified marketable securities portfolio, including mutual fund and exchange traded fund shares, that is subject to equity price risk. the recorded values of marketable equity securities increased to $1.52 billion at september 30, 2007 from $1.34 billion at september 24, 2006. the recorded values of equity mutual fund and exchange traded fund shares increased to $1.87 billion at september 30, 2007 from $1.52 billion at september 24, 2006. we make equity investments in companies of varying size, style, industry and geography, and changes in investment allocations may affect the price volatility of our investments. a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual fund and exchange traded fund shares at september 30, 2007 would cause a corresponding 10% decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities of $339 million. our strategic investments in other entities consist substantially of investments in private early-stage companies accounted for under the equity and cost methods. accordingly, we believe that our exposure to market risk from these investments is not material. additionally, we do not anticipate any near-term changes in the nature of our market risk exposures or in management objectives and strategies with respect to managing such exposures. the recorded values of these strategic investments totaled $114 million at september 30, 2007, compared to $93 million at september 24, 2006. in connection with our stock repurchase program, we sell put options that may require us to repurchase shares of our common stock at fixed prices. these written put options subject us to equity price risk. at september 30, 2007, we had two outstanding put options, enabling holders to sell 5,000,000 shares of our common stock upon exercise for approximately $189 million (net of the option premiums received). the put option liabilities, with a fair value of $10 million at september 30, 2007, were included in other current liabilities. if the fair value of our common stock at september 30, 2007 decreased by 15%, the amount required to physically settle the put options would exceed the fair value of the shares by $9 million, net of the $14 million in premiums received. 58 table of contents additional information regarding our strategic investments is provided in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report. foreign exchange risk. we manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, consisting primarily of foreign currency forward and option contracts. such derivative financial instruments are viewed as hedging or risk management tools and are not used for speculative or trading purposes. at september 30, 2007, we had no foreign currency forward contracts outstanding. at september 30, 2007, we had a net liability of $1 million related to our foreign currency option contracts that hedge the foreign currency risk on royalties earned from certain international licensees on their sales of cdma and wcdma products. if our forecasted royalty revenues were to decline by 30% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 30% in each of our hedged foreign currencies, we would incur a loss of approximately $6 million resulting from a decrease in fair value of the portion of our hedges that would be rendered ineffective. see notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1 the company and its significant accounting policies for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies. financial instruments held by consolidated subsidiaries that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. as a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. as a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. while we may hedge certain transactions with non-united states customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate the risks discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks.risk factors 16 risk factors you should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this annual report in evaluating our business and our prospects. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. you should also refer to the other information set forth in this annual report, including our financial statements and the related notes. 16 table of contents risks related to our businesses if deployment of our technologies does not expand as expected, our revenues may not grow as anticipated. we focus our business primarily on developing, patenting and commercializing cdma technology for wireless telecommunications applications. other digital wireless communications technologies, particularly gsm technology, have been more widely deployed than cdma technology. if adoption and use of cdma-based wireless communications standards do not continue in the countries where our products and those of our customers and licensees are sold, our business and financial results could suffer. if gsm wireless operators do not select cdma for their networks or update their current networks to any cdma-based third-generation (3g) technology, our business and financial results could suffer since we have not previously generated significant revenues from single-mode gsm product sales. in addition to cdma technology, we continue to invest in developing, patenting and commercializing ofdma technology, which has not yet been widely adopted and commercially deployed, and flo technology, which was commercially deployed in the united states in fiscal 2007. if ofdma is not widely adopted and commercially deployed and/or flo technology is not more widely adopted by consumers in the united states or commercially deployed internationally, our investments in ofdma and flo technologies may not provide us an adequate return. our business and the deployment of our technologies, products and services are dependent on the success of our customers, licensees and cdma-based wireless operators, as well as the timing of their deployment of new services. our licensees and cdma-based wireless operators may incur lower operating margins on products or services based on our technologies than on products using alternative technologies as a result of greater competition or other factors. if cdma-based wireless operators, wireless device and/or infrastructure manufacturers cease providing cdma-based products and/or services, the deployment of cdma technology could be negatively affected, and our business could suffer. we are dependent on the commercial deployment and upgrades of 3g wireless communications equipment, products and services to increase our revenues, and our business may be harmed if wireless network operators delay or are unsuccessful in the commercial deployment or upgrade of 3g technology or if they deploy other technologies. to increase our revenues in future periods, we are dependent upon the commercial deployment and upgrades of 3g wireless communications equipment, products and services based on our cdma technology. although wireless network operators have commercially deployed cdma2000 and wcdma, we cannot predict the timing or success of further commercial deployments or expansions or upgrades of cdma2000, wcdma or other cdma systems. if existing deployments are not commercially successful or do not continue to grow their subscriber base, or if new commercial deployments of cdma2000, wcdma or other cdma-based systems are delayed or unsuccessful, our business and financial results may be harmed. in addition, our business could be harmed if wireless network operators deploy other technologies or switch existing networks from cdma to gsm without upgrading to wcdma or if wireless network operators introduce new technologies. a limited number of wireless operators have started testing ofdma technology, but the timing and extent of ofdma deployments is uncertain, and we might not be successful in developing and marketing ofdma products. our patent portfolio may not be as successful in generating licensing income with respect to other technologies as it has been for cdma-based technologies. although we own a very strong portfolio of issued and pending patents related to gsm, gprs, edge, ofdm, ofdma and/or multiple input, multiple output (mimo) technologies, our patent portfolio licensing program in these areas is less established and might not be as successful in generating licensing income as our cdma portfolio licensing program. sprint nextel entered into a definitive agreement with clearwire corporation to form a new company that has started to deploy wimax (an ofdma-based technology) using its 2.5 ghz spectrum, also known as the broadband radio services band. other wireless operators are investigating deployment of wimax or considering lte, being standardized by 3gpp, or umb, being standardized by 3gpp2, as next-generation technologies for deployment in existing or future spectrum bands. verizon has announced its intention to begin developing its chosen fourth generation (4g) technology, lte, during 2008 and to prepare for the time when its customers start demanding such 4g capabilities, while continuing the expansion and operation of its existing cdma-based technologies for many years to come. although we believe that our patented technology is essential and useful to implementation of the wimax, lte and umb standards and have granted royalty-bearing licenses to eight companies to make and sell products implementing those standards, we might not achieve the same royalty revenues on such wimax, lte or umb deployments as on cdma/wcdma, and we might not achieve the same level of success in wimax, lte or umb products as we have in cdma/wcdma products. 17 table of contents our earnings are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market downturns. our revenues and earnings have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. general economic or other conditions could cause a downturn in the market for our products or technology. the recent financial disruption affecting the banking system and financial markets and the concern as to whether investment banks and other financial institutions will continue operations in the foreseeable future have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit and equity markets. in addition to the current impact on our marketable securities portfolio, there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business that could also adversely affect our operating results. the credit crisis may result in the insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; the inability of our customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer insolvencies that cause our customers to change delivery schedules, cancel or reduce orders without incurring significant penalties as they are not subject to minimum purchase requirements; a slowdown in global economies which could result in lower consumer demand for cdma-based products; counterparty failures negatively impacting our treasury operations; increased impairments of our investments; and the inability to utilize federal and/or state capital loss carryovers. net investment income could vary from expectations depending on the gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities, gains or losses from equity method investments, impairment charges related to marketable securities, interest rates and changes in fair values of derivative instruments. our cash and marketable securities investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements and financial market conditions in fixed income and equity securities. the current volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increase the risk of substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations in our earnings. our future operating results will be affected by many factors, including, but not limited to: our ability to retain existing or secure anticipated customers or licensees, both domestically and internationally; our ability to develop, introduce and market new technology, products and services on a timely basis; management of inventory by us and our customers and their customers in response to shifts in market demand; changes in the mix of technology and products developed, licensed, produced and sold; seasonal customer demand; and other factors described elsewhere in this annual report and in these risk factors. these factors affecting our future earnings are difficult to forecast and could harm our quarterly and/or annual operating results. if our earnings fail to meet the financial guidance we provide to investors, or the expectations of investment analysts or investors in any period, securities class action litigation could be brought against us and/or the market price of our common stock could decline. global economic conditions that impact the wireless communications industry could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. we believe the recent global economic conditions are causing current contraction in the channel inventory and will likely result in lower consumer demand and prices for our products and for the products of our customers, particularly wireless communications equipment manufacturers or other members of the wireless industry, such as wireless network operators. we cannot predict other negative events that may have adverse effects on the economy, on demand and prices for wireless device products or on wireless device inventories at cdma-based equipment manufacturers and wireless operators. inflation and/or deflation and economic recessions that adversely affect the global economy and capital markets also adversely affect our customers and our end consumers. for example, our customers ability to purchase our products and services, obtain financing and upgrade wireless networks could be adversely affected, leading to cancellation or delay of orders for our products. also, our end consumers standards of living could be lowered, and their ability to purchase wireless devices based on our technology could be diminished. inflation could also increase our costs of raw materials and operating expenses and harm our business in other ways, and deflation could reduce our revenues if product prices fall. any of these results from worsening global economic conditions could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. during fiscal 2008, 70% of our revenues were from customers and licensees based in south korea, japan and china, as compared to 69% and 70% during fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. these customers sell their products to markets worldwide, including in japan, south korea, china, india, north america, south america and europe. a significant downturn in the economies of asian countries where many of our customers and licensees are located, particularly the economies of south korea, japan and china, or the economies of the major markets they serve would materially harm our business. in addition, the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of war or terrorism, may cause disruptions to the global economy and to the wireless communications industry and create uncertainties. should such negative events occur, subsequent economic recovery might not benefit us in the near term. if it does not, our ability to increase or maintain our revenues and operating results may be impaired. in addition, because we intend to continue to make significant investments in research and development and to maintain extensive ongoing customer service and support capability, any decline in the rate of growth of our revenues will have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. 18 table of contents our two largest customers accounted for 30% of consolidated revenues in fiscal 2008, 27% in fiscal 2007 and 26% in fiscal 2006. the loss of any one of our major customers or any reduction in the demand for devices utilizing our cdma technology could reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or sustain desired levels of operating results. the loss of any one of our qct segment significant customers or the delay, even if only temporary, or cancellation of significant orders from any of these customers would reduce our revenues in the period of the cancellation or deferral and harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected levels of operating results. we derive a significant portion of our qct segment revenues from two major customers. accordingly, unless and until our qct segment diversifies and expands its customer base, our future success will significantly depend upon the timing and size of any future purchase orders from these customers. factors that may impact the size and timing of orders from customers of our qct segment include, among others, the following: the product requirements of our customers and the network operators; the financial and operational success of our customers; the success of our customers products that incorporate our products; changes in wireless penetration growth rates; value-added features which drive replacement rates; shortages of key products and components; fluctuations in channel inventory levels; the success of products sold to our customers by competitors; the rate of deployment of new technology by the wireless network operators and the rate of adoption of new technology by the end consumers; the extent to which certain customers successfully develop and produce cdma-based integrated circuits and system software to meet their own needs or source such products from other suppliers; general economic conditions; changes in governmental regulations in countries where we or our customers currently operate or plan to operate; and widespread illness. we derive a significant portion of our royalty revenues in our qtl segment from a limited number of licensees and our future success depends on the ability of our licensees to obtain market acceptance for their products. our qtl segment today derives royalty revenues primarily from sales of cdma products by our licensees. although we have more than 155 licensees, we derive a significant portion of our royalty revenues from a limited number of licensees. our future success depends upon the ability of our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver high-volume products that achieve and sustain market acceptance. we have little or no control over the sales efforts of our licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. reductions in the average selling price of wireless communications devices utilizing our cdma technology, without a comparable increase in the volumes of such devices sold, could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may not be able to modify some of our license agreements to license later patents without modifying some of the other material terms and conditions of such license agreements, and such modifications may impact our revenues. the licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date, and, in a small number of agreements, royalties are payable on those patents for a specified time period. as a result, there are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us under our license agreements. in order to license any such later patents, we will need to extend or modify our license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees. we might not be able to modify such license agreements in the future to license any such later patents or extend such date(s) to incorporate later patents without affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees. 19 table of contents efforts by some telecommunications equipment manufacturers and component suppliers to avoid paying fair and reasonable royalties for the use of our intellectual property may create uncertainty about our future business prospects, may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources, and may result in legal decisions and/or political actions by foreign governments that harm our business. a small number of companies have initiated various strategies in an attempt to renegotiate, mitigate and/or eliminate their need to pay royalties to us for the use of our intellectual property in order to negatively affect our business model and that of our other licensees. these strategies have included (i) litigation, often alleging infringement of patents held by such companies, patent misuse, patent exhaustion and patent and license unenforceability, or some form of unfair competition, (ii) taking questionable positions on the interpretation of contracts with us, with royalty reduction as the likely true motive, (iii) appeals to governmental authorities, such as the complaints filed with the european commission (ec) during the fourth calendar quarter of 2005 and with the korea fair trade commission (kftc) and the japan fair trade commission (jftc) during 2006, (iv) collective action intended to depress license fees, including working with carriers, standards bodies, other like-minded technology companies and other organizations, formal and informal, to adopt intellectual property policies and practices which could have the effect of limiting returns on intellectual property innovations and (v) lobbying with governmental regulators and elected officials for the purpose of seeking the imposition of some form of compulsory licensing and/or to weaken a patent holder ability to enforce its rights or obtain a fair return for such rights. a number of these strategies are purportedly based on interpretations of the policies of certain standards development organizations concerning the licensing of patents that are or may be essential to industry standards and our alleged failure to abide by these policies. six companies (nokia, ericsson, panasonic, texas instruments, broadcom and nec) submitted separate formal complaints to the competition directorate of the ec accusing our business practices, with respect to licensing of patents and sales of chipsets, to be in violation of article 82 of the ec treaty. we received the complaints, submitted a response and have cooperated with the ec in its investigation. on october 1, 2007, the ec announced that it had initiated a proceeding though it has not decided to issue a statement of objections, and it has not made any conclusions as to the merits of the complaints. on july 23, 2008, we entered into an agreement with nokia in which nokia agreed to withdraw its complaint as part of the settlement of disputes between the parties; however, although nokia has withdrawn its complaint, the investigation remains active. while the ec actions to date do not indicate that the ec has found any evidence of a violation by us and we believe that none of our business practices violate the legal requirements of article 82 of the ec treaty, if the ec determines liability as to any of the alleged violations, it could impose fines and/or require us to modify our practices. further, the continuation of this investigation could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. although such potential adverse findings may be appealed within the ec legal system, an adverse final determination could have a significant negative impact on our revenues and/or earnings. we understand that two u.s. companies (texas instruments and broadcom) and two south korean companies (nextreaming corp. and thin multimedia, inc.) have filed complaints with the kftc alleging that our business practices are, in some way, a violation of south korean anti-trust regulations. to date, we have not received the complaints but have submitted certain requested information and documents to the kftc regarding rebates on chipset sales, chipset design integration and royalties on devices containing a qualcomm chipset. the jftc has also received unspecified complaints alleging that our business practices are, in some way, a violation of japanese law. we have not received the complaints but have submitted certain requested information and documents to the jftc regarding the non-assert and royalty provisions in our license agreements and brew agreements. while we have not seen any of these complaints in south korea or japan, we believe that none of our business practices violate the legal requirements of south korean competition law or japanese competition law. however, we have cooperated with the investigations of these complaints in south korea and japan, and any continuation or expansion of these investigations could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. an adverse final determination on these charges could have a significant negative impact on our business, including our revenues and/or earnings. although we believe that these challenges are without merit, and we will continue to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights and our right to continue to receive a fair return for our innovations, the distractions caused by challenges to our business model and licensing program are undesirable and the legal and other costs associated with defending our position have been and continue to be significant. we assume, as should investors, that such challenges will continue into the foreseeable future and may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources to explain and defend our position. 20 table of contents the enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive and could divert our valuable resources. we rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes, including our patent portfolio. policing unauthorized use of our products and technologies is difficult and time consuming. we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary intellectual property rights as fully or as readily as united states laws. we cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country, including the united states, or the practices of any of the standards bodies, foreign or domestic, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing, issuance of wireless licenses or the adoption of standards, will not be changed in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. the vast majority of our patents and patent applications relate to our wireless communications technology and much of the remainder of our patents and patent applications relate to our other technologies and products. we may need to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. as a result of any such litigation, we could lose our ability to enforce one or more patents or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. any action we take to enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. in addition, failure to protect our trademark rights could impair our brand identity. claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property, that patents on which we rely are invalid, or that our business practices are in some way unlawful could adversely affect our business. from time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights against our products or products using our technologies or other technologies used in our industry. these claims have resulted and may again result in our involvement in litigation. we may not prevail in such litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if any of our products were found to infringe on another company intellectual property rights, we could be subject to an injunction or required to redesign our products, which could be costly, or to license such rights and/or pay damages or other compensation to such other company. if we were unable to redesign our products or license such intellectual property rights used in our products, we could be prohibited from making and selling such products. we expect that we will continue to be involved in litigation and may have to appear in front of administrative bodies (such as the u.s. international trade commission) to defend against patent assertions against our products by companies, some of whom are attempting to gain competitive advantage or negotiating leverage in licensing negotiations. we may not be successful and, if we are not, the range of possible outcomes includes everything from a royalty payment to an injunction on the sale of certain of our chipsets (and on the sale of our customers devices using our chipsets) and the imposition of royalty payments that might make purchases of our chipsets less economical for our customers. a negative outcome in any such litigation could severely disrupt the business of our chipset customers and their wireless customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with our chipset customers and wireless operators and could result in a decline in our share of worldwide chipset sales and/or a reduction in our licensees sales to wireless operators, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. in addition, intellectual property rights claims in our industry are common, and, as the number of competitors or other patent holders in the market increases and the functionality of our products expands to include additional technologies and features, we may become subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others. any claims, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming to address, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our operating results. in any potential dispute involving other companies patents or other intellectual property, our chipset customers could also become the targets of litigation. any such litigation could severely disrupt the business of our chipset customers and their wireless operator customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with our chipset customers and wireless operators and could result in a decline in our chipset market share and/or a reduction in our licensees sales to wireless operators, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. a number of other companies have claimed to own patents essential to various cdma standards, gsm standards and implementations of ofdm and ofdma systems. if we or other product manufacturers are required to obtain additional licenses and/or pay royalties to one or more patent holders, this could have a material adverse effect on the commercial implementation of our cdma or multimode products and technologies, demand for our licensees products, and our profitability. 21 table of contents other companies or entities also have, and may again, commence actions seeking to establish the invalidity of our patents. in the event that one or more of our patents are challenged, a court may invalidate the patent(s) or determine that the patent(s) is not enforceable, which could harm our competitive position. if our key patents are invalidated, or if the scope of the claims in any of these patents is limited by court decision, we could be prevented from licensing the invalidated or limited portion of such patents. such adverse decisions could negatively impact our revenues. even if such a patent challenge is not successful, it could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. our industry is subject to competition that could result in decreased demand for our products and the products of our customers and licensees and/or declining average selling prices for our licensees products and our products, negatively affecting our revenues and operating results. we currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that competition will continue. competition in the telecommunications market is affected by various factors, including: comprehensiveness of products and technologies; value-added features which drive replacement rates and selling prices; manufacturing capability; scalability and the ability of the system technology to meet customers immediate and future network requirements; product performance and quality; design and engineering capabilities; compliance with industry standards; time-to-market; system cost; and customer support. this competition may result in increased development costs and reduced average selling prices for our products and those of our customers and licensees. reductions in the average selling price of our licensees products, unless offset by an increase in volumes, generally result in reduced royalties payable to us. while pricing pressures from competition may, to a large extent, be mitigated by the introduction of new features and functionality in our licensees products, there is no guarantee that such mitigation will occur. we anticipate that additional competitors will enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in wireless telecommunications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in selected segments of the industry. companies that promote non-cdma technologies (e.g. gsm, wimax) and companies that design competing cdma-based integrated circuits are generally included amongst our competitors or potential competitors in the united states or abroad. examples (some of whom are strategic partners of ours in other areas) include broadcom, eonex technologies, ericsson, freescale, fujitsu, icera, infineon, intel, lsi corporation, mediatek, nec, nvidia, renesas, st-nxp wireless, texas instruments, via telecom and the recently announced joint venture between ericsson mobile platforms and st-nxp wireless. with respect to our qes business, our competitors are aggressively pricing products and services and are offering new value-added products and services which may impact margins, intensify competition in current and new markets and harm our ability to compete in certain markets. many of these current and potential competitors have advantages over us, including: longer operating histories and market presence; greater name recognition; motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to find alternate suppliers; access to larger customer bases; economies of scale and cost structure advantages; greater sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources; and government support of other technologies (e.g. gsm). 22 table of contents as a result of these and other factors, our competitors may be more successful than us. in addition, we anticipate additional competitors will begin to offer and sell products based on 3g standards. these competitors may have more established relationships and distribution channels in markets not currently deploying cdma-based wireless communications technology. these competitors also may have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with our existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. these relationships may affect our customers decisions to purchase products or license technology from us or to use alternative technologies. accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share of sales to our detriment. in addition to the foregoing, we have seen, and believe we will continue to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including chipsets, that will operate in an open source environment, which offers practical accessibility to a product source code. developing open source compliant products, without imperiling the intellectual property rights upon which our licensing business depends, may prove difficult under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage for new product designs. while we continue to believe our qmt division imod displays will offer compelling advantages to users of displays, there can be no assurance that other technologies will not continue to improve in ways that reduce the advantages we anticipate from our imod displays. sales of flat panel displays are currently, and we believe will likely continue to be for some time, dominated by displays based on liquid crystal display (lcd) technology. numerous companies are making substantial investments in, and conducting research to improve characteristics of, lcds. additionally, several other flat panel display technologies have been, or are being, developed, including technologies for the production of organic light-emitting diode (oled), field emission, inorganic electroluminescence, gas plasma and vacuum fluorescent displays. in each case, advances in lcd or other flat panel display technologies could result in technologies that are more cost effective, have fewer display limitations, or can be brought to market faster than our imod technology. these advances in competing technologies might cause display manufacturers to avoid entering into commercial relationships with us, or not renew planned or existing relationships with us. our qmt division had $277 million in assets (including $134 million in goodwill) at september 28, 2008. if we do not achieve adequate market penetration with our imod display technology, our assets may become impaired, which could negatively impact our operating results. successful attempts by certain companies to amend or modify standards development organizations (sdos ) and other industry forums intellectual property policies could impact our licensing business. some companies have proposed significant changes to existing intellectual property policies for implementation by sdos and other industry organizations, some of which would require a maximum aggregate intellectual property royalty rate for the use of all essential patents owned by all of the member companies to be applied to the selling price of any product implementing the relevant standard. they have further proposed that such maximum aggregate royalty rate be apportioned to each member company with essential patents based upon the size of its essential patent portfolio. in may 2007, seven companies (nokia, nokia-siemens, nec, ericsson, sonyericsson, alcatel-lucent, and nextwave) issued a press release announcing their commitment to the principles described above with respect to the licensing of patents essential to lte and inviting all other industry participants to join them in adopting such policies. although the european telecommunications standards institute (etsi) ipr special committee and the next generation mobile network industry group have thus far determined that such proposals should not be adopted as amendments to existing etsi policies or new policies, and no other companies have joined these seven companies, such proposals as described above might be revisited within etsi and might be adopted by other sdos or industry groups, formal and/or informal, resulting in a potential disadvantage to our business model either by limiting our return on investment with respect to new technologies or forcing us to work outside of the sdos or such other industry groups for promoting our new technologies. 23 table of contents we depend upon a limited number of third-party suppliers to manufacture and test component parts, subassemblies and finished goods for our products. if these third-party suppliers do not allocate adequate manufacturing and test capacity in their facilities to produce products on our behalf, or if there are any disruptions in the operations, or the loss, of any of these third parties, it could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers, reduce our revenues, increase our cost of sales and harm our business. a supplier ability to meet our product manufacturing demand is limited mainly by its overall capacity and current capacity availability. our ability to meet customer demand depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of parts and components from our suppliers. a reduction or interruption in our product supply source, an inability of our suppliers to react to shifts in product demand or an increase in component prices could have a material adverse effect on our business or profitability. component shortages could adversely affect our ability and that of our customers to ship products on a timely basis and, as a result, our customers demand for our products. any such shipment delays or declines in demand could reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or sustain desired levels of profitability. additionally, failure to meet customer demand in a timely manner could damage our reputation and harm our customer relationships. our operations may also be harmed by lengthy or recurring disruptions at any of our suppliers manufacturing facilities and by disruptions in the distribution channels from our suppliers and to our customers. any such disruptions could cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift the products from an affected manufacturer to another manufacturer. if the affected supplier was a sole-source supplier, we may not be able to obtain the product without significant cost and delay. the loss of a significant third-party supplier or the inability of a third-party supplier to meet performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers and negatively impact our revenues and business operations. qct segment. although we have entered into long-term contracts with our suppliers, most of these contracts do not provide for long-term capacity commitments, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order that has been accepted by our supplier. to the extent that we do not have firm commitments from our suppliers over a specific time period, or in any specific quantity, our suppliers may allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production and testing of products for their other customers while reducing capacity to manufacture our products. accordingly, capacity for our products may not be available when we need it or available at reasonable prices. we have experienced capacity limitations from our suppliers, which resulted in supply constraints and our inability to meet certain customer demand. there can be no assurance that we will not experience these or other supply constraints in the future, which could result in our failure to meet customer demand. while our goal is to establish alternate suppliers for technologies that we consider critical, some of our integrated circuits products are only available from single sources, with which we do not have long-term capacity commitments. our reliance on sole- or limited-source suppliers involves significant risks including possible shortages of manufacturing capacity, poor product performance and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability and yields, quality assurance, quantity and costs. our arrangements with our suppliers may oblige us to incur costs to manufacture and test our products that do not decrease at the same rate as decreases in pricing to our customers which may result in lowering our operating margins. in addition, the timely readiness of our foundry suppliers to support transitions to smaller geometry process technologies could impact our ability to meet customer demand, revenues and cost expectations. the timing of acceptance of the smaller technology designs by our customers may subject us to the risk of excess inventories of earlier designs. in the event of a loss of, or a decision to change, a key third-party supplier, qualifying a new foundry supplier and commencing volume production or testing could involve delay and expense, resulting in lost revenues, reduced operating margins and possible loss of customers. we work closely with our customers to expedite their processes for evaluating new integrated circuits from our foundry suppliers; however, in some instances, transition of integrated circuit production to a new foundry supplier may cause a temporary decline in shipments of specific integrated circuits to individual customers. under our integrated fabless manufacturing (ifm) model, we purchase die from semiconductor manufacturing foundries, contract with separate third-party manufacturers for back-end assembly and test services and ship the completed integrated circuits to our customers. we are unable to directly control the services provided by our semiconductor assembly and test (sat) suppliers, including the timely procurement of packaging materials for our products, availability of assembly and test capacity, manufacturing yields, quality assurance and product delivery schedules. we have a limited history of working with the sat suppliers under the ifm model, and cannot guarantee that our lack of control will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers, reduce our revenues, or increase our cost of sales. qmt division. qmt needs to form and maintain reliable business relationships with flat panel display manufacturers or other targeted partners to support the manufacture of imod displays in commercial volumes. all of our current relationships have been for the development and limited production of certain imod display panels and/or modules. some or all of these relationships may not succeed or, even if they are successful, may not result in the display manufacturers entering into material supply relationships with us. 24 table of contents our suppliers may also be our competitors, putting us at a disadvantage for pricing and capacity allocation. one or more of our suppliers may obtain licenses from us to manufacture cdma-based integrated circuits that compete with our products. in this event, the supplier could elect to allocate raw materials and manufacturing capacity to their own products and reduce deliveries to us to our detriment. in addition, we may not receive reasonable pricing, manufacturing or delivery terms. we cannot guarantee that the actions of our suppliers will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost of sales. we, and our licensees, are subject to the risks of conducting business outside the united states. a significant part of our strategy involves our continued pursuit of growth opportunities in a number of international market locations. we market, sell and service our products internationally. we have established sales offices around the world. we expect to continue to expand our international sales operations and to sell products in additional countries and locations. this expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources to successfully develop direct and indirect international sales and support channels, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful or that our expenditures in this effort will not exceed the amount of any resulting revenues. if we are not able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products and technologies, we may not be able to maintain a desired rate of growth in our business. our international customers sell their products to markets throughout the world, including china, india, japan, south korea, north america, south america and europe. we distinguish revenues from external customers by geographic areas based on the location to which our products, software or services are delivered and, for qtl licensing and royalty revenues, the invoiced address of our licensees. consolidated revenues from international customers as a percentage of total revenues were 91% in fiscal 2008 and 87% in both fiscal 2007 and 2006. because a significant portion of our foreign sales are denominated in u.s. dollars, our products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold in u.s. dollars become less price-competitive in international markets if the value of the u.s. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies, and our revenues may not grow as quickly as they otherwise might in response to worldwide growth in wireless products and services. in many international markets, barriers to entry are created by long-standing relationships between our potential customers and their local service providers and protective regulations, including local content and service requirements. in addition, our pursuit of international growth opportunities may require significant investments for an extended period before we realize returns, if any, on our investments. our business could be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors, including: difficulty in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights and/or contracts in a particular foreign jurisdiction, including challenges to our licensing practices under such jurisdictions competition laws; challenges pending before foreign competition agencies to the pricing and integration of additional features and functionality into our wireless chipset products; our inability to succeed in significant foreign markets, such as china, india or europe; cultural differences in the conduct of business; difficulty in attracting qualified personnel and managing foreign activities; longer payment cycles for and greater difficulties collecting accounts receivable; export controls, tariffs and other trade protection measures; nationalization, expropriation and limitations on repatriation of cash; social, economic and political instability; natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war; taxation; variability in the value of the dollar against foreign currency; and changes in laws and policies affecting trade, foreign investments, licensing practices, loans and employment. we cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing, issuance of wireless licenses or the adoption of standards will not be changed or enforced in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. 25 table of contents the wireless markets in china and india, among others, represent growth opportunities for us. if wireless operators in china or india, or the governments of china or india, make technology deployment or other decisions that result in actions that are adverse to the expansion of cdma technologies, our business could be harmed. we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide subsidies on wireless device sales to their customers. increases in device prices that negatively impact device sales can result from changes in regulatory policies related to device subsidies. limitations or changes in policy on device subsidies in south korea, japan, china and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues. currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues, harm our ability to collect receivables, or increase the u.s. dollar cost of the activities of our foreign subsidiaries and international strategic investments. we are exposed to risk from fluctuations in currencies, which may change over time as our business practices evolve, that could impact our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. we operate and invest globally. adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business due to a number of situations, including the following: if the effective price of products sold by our customers were to increase as a result of fluctuations in the exchange rate of the relevant currencies, demand for the products could fall, which in turn would reduce our royalty and chipset revenues. declines in currency values in selected regions may adversely affect our operating results because our products and those of our customers and licensees may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. assets or liabilities of our consolidated subsidiaries and our foreign investees that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations, which may affect our reported earnings. our exposure to foreign currencies may increase as we increase our presence in existing markets or expand into new markets. investments in our consolidated foreign subsidiaries and in other foreign entities that use the local currency as the functional currency may decline in value as a result of declines in local currency values. certain of our revenues, such as royalty revenues, are derived from licensee or customer sales that are denominated in foreign currencies. if these revenues are not subject to foreign exchange hedging transactions, weakening of currency values in selected regions could adversely affect our near term revenues and cash flows. in addition, continued weakening of currency values in selected regions over an extended period of time could adversely affect our future revenues and cash flows. we may engage in foreign exchange hedging transactions that could affect our cash flows and earnings because they may require the payment of structuring fees, and they may limit the u.s. dollar value of royalties from licensees sales that are denominated in foreign currencies. our trade receivables are generally u.s. dollar denominated. any significant increase in the value of the dollar against our customers or licensees functional currencies could result in an increase in our customers or licensees cash flow requirements and could consequently affect our ability to sell products and collect receivables. strengthening currency values in selected regions may adversely affect our operating results because the activities of our foreign subsidiaries, and the costs of procuring component parts and chipsets from foreign vendors, may become more expensive in u.s. dollars. strengthening currency values in selected regions may adversely affect our cash flows and investment results because strategic investment obligations denominated in foreign currencies may become more expensive, and the u.s. dollar cost of equity in losses of foreign investees may increase. weakening currency values in selected regions may adversely affect the value of our marketable securities issued in foreign markets. 26 table of contents we may engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make investments that could result in significant changes or management disruption and fail to enhance stockholder value. from time to time, we engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make investments with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. we acquire businesses, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase equity and debt securities, including minority interests in publicly-traded and private companies, non-investment-grade debt securities, equity and debt mutual and exchange traded funds, corporate bonds/notes, auction rate securities and mortgage/asset-backed securities. many of our strategic investments are in cdma wireless operators, early-stage companies or venture funds to support our business, including the global adoption of cdma-based technologies and related services. most of our strategic investments entail a high degree of risk and will not become liquid until more than one year from the date of investment, if at all. our acquisitions or strategic investments (either those we have completed or may undertake in the future) may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies. in addition, our other investments may not generate financial returns or may result in losses due to market volatility, the general level of interest rates and inflation expectations. in some cases, we make strategic investments in early-stage companies, which require us to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of those companies. our share of any losses will adversely affect our financial results until we exit from or reduce our exposure to these investments. achieving the anticipated benefits of acquisitions depends in part upon our ability to integrate the acquired businesses in an efficient and effective manner. the integration of companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, and we may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. the difficulties of integrating companies include, among others: retaining key employees; maintenance of important relationships of qualcomm and the acquired business; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business matters; coordinating geographically separate organizations; consolidating research and development operations; and consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. we cannot assure you that the integration of acquired businesses with our business will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated by us to result from the acquisition. we may not derive any commercial value from the acquired technology, products and intellectual property or from future technologies and products based on the acquired technology and/or intellectual property, and we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by indemnification protection we may obtain. defects or errors in our products and services or in products made by our suppliers could harm our relations with our customers and expose us to liability. similar problems related to the products of our customers or licensees could harm our business. if we experience product liability claims or recalls, we may incur significant expenses and experience decreased demand for our products. our products are inherently complex and may contain defects and errors that are detected only when the products are in use. for example, as our chipset product complexities increase, we are required to migrate to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes. the design process interface issues are more complex as we enter into these new domains of technology, which adds risk to yields and reliability. because our products and services are responsible for critical functions in our customers products and/or networks, such defects or errors could have a serious impact on our customers, which could damage our reputation, harm our customer relationships and expose us to liability. defects or impurities in our components, materials or software or those used by our customers or licensees, equipment failures or other difficulties could adversely affect our ability, and that of our customers and licensees, to ship products on a timely basis as well as customer or licensee demand for our products. any such shipment delays or declines in demand could reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or sustain desired levels of profitability. we and our customers or licensees may also experience component or software failures or defects that could require significant product recalls, reworks and/or repairs that are not covered by warranty reserves and which could consume a substantial portion of the capacity of our third-party manufacturers or those of our customers or licensees. resolving any defect or failure related issues could consume financial and/or engineering resources that could affect future product release schedules. additionally, a defect or failure in our products or the products of our customers or licensees could harm our reputation and/or adversely affect the growth of 3g wireless markets. 27 table of contents testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our products and those of our licensees and customers entail the risk of product liability. the use of wireless devices containing our products to access untrusted content creates a risk of exposing the system software in those devices to viral or malicious attacks. we continue to expand our focus on this issue and take measures to safeguard the software from this threat. however, this issue carries the risk of general product liability claims along with the associated impacts on reputation and demand. although we carry product liability insurance to protect against product liability claims, we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to protect us against losses due to product liability claims, or that we will be able to continue to maintain such insurance at a reasonable cost. furthermore, not all losses associated with alleged product failure are insurable. our inability to maintain insurance at an acceptable cost or to protect ourselves in other ways against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products and those of our licensees and customers and harm our future operating results. in addition, a product liability claim or recall, whether against our licensees, customers or us could harm our reputation and result in decreased demand for our products. mediaflo usa does not fully control promotional activities necessary to stimulate demand for our services. our mediaflo usa business is a wholesale provider of a mobile entertainment and information service to our wireless operator partners. as such, we do not set the retail price of our service to the consumer, nor do we directly control all of the marketing and promotion of the service to the wireless operator subscriber base. therefore, we are dependent upon our wireless operator partners to price, market and otherwise promote our service to the end users. if our wireless operator partners do not effectively price, market and otherwise promote the service to their subscriber base, our ability to achieve the subscriber and revenue targets contemplated in our business plan will be negatively impacted. consumer acceptance and adoption of our mediaflo technology and mobile commerce applications will have a considerable impact on the success of our mediaflo and firethorn businesses, respectively. customer acceptance of the services our mediaflo and firethorn businesses offer is, and will continue to be, affected by technology-based differences and by the operational performance, quality, reliability and coverage of our wireless network and services platforms. consumer demand could be impacted by differences in technology, coverage and service areas, network quality, consumer perceptions, program and service offerings and rate plans. our wireless operator and financial services partners may have difficulty retaining subscribers if we are unable to meet subscriber expectations for network quality and coverage, customer care, content or security. obtaining content for our mediaflo usa business that is appealing to subscribers on economically rational terms may be limited by our content provider partners inability to obtain the mobile rights to such programming. an inability to address these issues could limit our ability to expand our subscriber base and place us at a competitive disadvantage. additionally, adoption and deployment of our mediaflo technology could be adversely impacted by government regulatory practices that support a single standard other than our technology, wireless operator selection of competing technologies or consumer preferences. our business and operating results will be harmed if we are unable to manage growth in our business. certain of our businesses have experienced periods of rapid growth and/or increased their international activities, placing significant demands on our managerial, operational and financial resources. in order to manage growth and geographic expansion, we must continue to improve and develop our management, operational and financial systems and controls, including quality control and delivery and service capabilities. we also need to continue to expand, train and manage our employee base. we must carefully manage research and development capabilities and production and inventory levels to meet product demand, new product introductions and product and technology transitions. we cannot assure you that we will be able to timely and effectively meet that demand and maintain the quality standards required by our existing and potential customers and licensees. in addition, inaccuracies in our demand forecasts, or failure of the systems used to develop the forecasts, could quickly result in either insufficient or excessive inventories and disproportionate overhead expenses. if we ineffectively manage our growth or are unsuccessful in recruiting and retaining personnel, our business and operating results will be harmed. our stock price may be volatile. the stock market in general, and the stock prices of technology-based and wireless communications companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company. the market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future as well. factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock include: announcements concerning us or our competitors, including the selection of wireless communications technology by wireless operators and the timing of the roll-out of those systems; court or regulatory body decisions or settlements regarding intellectual property licensing and patent litigation and arbitration; 28 table of contents receipt of substantial orders or order cancellations for integrated circuits and system software products; quality deficiencies in services or products; announcements regarding financial developments or technological innovations; international developments, such as technology mandates, political developments or changes in economic policies; lack of capital to invest in 3g networks; new commercial products; changes in recommendations of securities analysts; general stock market volatility; disruption in the u.s. and foreign credit and financial markets affecting both the availability of credit and credit spreads on investment securities; government regulations, including tax regulations; energy blackouts; acts of terrorism and war; inflation and deflation; concerns regarding global economic conditions that may impact one or more of the countries in which we, our customers or our licensees compete; widespread illness; proprietary rights or product or patent litigation against us or against our customers or licensees; strategic transactions, such as spin-offs, acquisitions and divestitures; or rumors or allegations regarding our financial disclosures or practices. our future earnings and stock price may be subject to volatility, particularly on a quarterly basis. shortfalls in our revenues or earnings in any given period relative to the levels expected by securities analysts could immediately, significantly and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. in the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. due to changes in the potential volatility of our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. securities and patent litigation could result in substantial uninsured costs and divert management attention and resources. in addition, stock price volatility may be precipitated by failure to meet earnings expectations or other factors, such as the potential uncertainty in future reported earnings created by the assumptions used for share-based compensation and the related valuation models used to determine such expense. our industry is subject to rapid technological change, and we must make substantial investments in new products and technologies to compete successfully. new technological innovations generally require a substantial investment before they are commercially viable. we intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing new products and technologies, and it is possible that our development efforts will not be successful and that our new technologies will not result in meaningful revenues. in particular, we intend to continue to invest significant resources in developing integrated circuit products to support high-speed wireless internet access and multimode, multiband, multinetwork operation and multimedia applications, which encompass development of graphical display, camera and video capabilities, as well as higher computational capability and lower power on-chip computers and signal processors. we also continue to invest in the development of our brew applications development platform, our mediaflo mds and flo technology and our imod display technology. certain of these new products and technologies face significant competition, and we cannot assure that the revenues generated from these products or the timing of the deployment of these products or technologies, which may be dependent on the actions of others, will meet our expectations. we cannot be certain that we will make the additional advances in development that may be essential to commercialize our imod technology successfully. 29 table of contents the market for our wireless products and technology is characterized by many factors, including: rapid technological advances and evolving industry standards; changes in customer requirements and consumer expectations; frequent introductions of new products and enhancements; evolving methods for transmission of wireless voice and data communications; and intense competition from companies with greater resources, customer relationships and distribution capabilities. our future success will depend on our ability to continue to develop and introduce new products, technology and enhancements on a timely basis. our future success will also depend on our ability to keep pace with technological developments, protect our intellectual property, satisfy customer requirements, price our products competitively and achieve market acceptance. the introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products and technology, and products and technology currently under development, obsolete and unmarketable. if we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments or customer requirements, or experience any significant delays in development, introduction or shipment of our products and technology in commercial quantities, demand for our products and our customers and licensees products that use our technology could decrease, and our competitive position could be damaged. changes in assumptions used to estimate the values of share-based compensation have a significant effect on our reported results. we are required to estimate and record compensation expense in the statement of operations for share-based payments, such as employee stock options, using the fair value method. this method has a significant effect on our reported earnings, although it will not affect our cash flows, and could adversely impact our ability to provide accurate guidance on our future reported financial results due to the variability of the factors used to estimate the values of share-based payments. if factors change and/or we employ different assumptions or different valuation methods in future periods, the compensation expense that we record may differ significantly from amounts recorded previously, which could negatively affect our stock price and our stock price volatility. there are significant differences among valuation models, and there is a possibility that we will adopt different valuation models in the future. this may result in a lack of consistency in future periods and materially affect the fair value estimate of share-based payments. it may also result in a lack of comparability with other companies that use different models, methods and assumptions. theoretical valuation models and market-based methods are evolving and may result in lower or higher fair value estimates for share-based compensation. the timing, readiness, adoption, general acceptance, reliability and testing of these methods is uncertain. sophisticated mathematical models may require voluminous historical information, modeling expertise, financial analyses, correlation analyses, integrated software and databases, consulting fees, customization and testing for adequacy of internal controls. market-based methods are emerging that, if employed by us, may dilute our earnings per share and involve significant transaction fees and ongoing administrative expenses. the uncertainties and costs of these extensive valuation efforts may outweigh the benefits to our investors. potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. in such case, a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods in which that determination is made could result. in addition, tax rules may change that may adversely affect our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. for example, we consider the operating earnings of certain non-united states subsidiaries to be invested indefinitely outside the united states based on estimates that future domestic cash generation will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs. no provision has been made for united states federal and state or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. our future reported financial results may be adversely affected if tax or accounting rules regarding unrepatriated earnings change or if domestic cash needs require us to repatriate foreign earnings. 30 table of contents the high amount of capital required to obtain radio frequency licenses, deploy and expand wireless networks and obtain new subscribers could slow the growth of the wireless communications industry and adversely affect our business. our growth is dependent upon the increased use of wireless communications services that utilize our technology. in order to provide wireless communications services, wireless operators must obtain rights to use specific radio frequencies. the allocation of frequencies is regulated in the united states and other countries throughout the world, and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless communications services. industry growth may be affected by the amount of capital required to: obtain licenses to use new frequencies; deploy wireless networks to offer voice and data services; expand wireless networks to grow voice and data services; and obtain new subscribers. the significant cost of licenses, wireless networks and subscriber additions may slow the growth of the industry if wireless operators are unable to obtain or service the additional capital necessary to implement or expand 3g wireless networks. our growth could be adversely affected if this occurs. if wireless devices pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers may decrease. concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions, even if unfounded, may have the effect of discouraging the use of wireless devices, which may decrease demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers. in recent years, the fcc and foreign regulatory agencies have updated the guidelines and methods they use for evaluating radio frequency emissions from radio equipment, including wireless phones and other wireless devices. in addition, interest groups have requested that the fcc investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and medical devices. concerns have also been expressed over the possibility of safety risks due to a lack of attention associated with the use of wireless devices while driving. any legislation that may be adopted in response to these expressions of concern could reduce demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers in the united states as well as foreign countries. our qes and mediaflo businesses depend on the availability of satellite and other networks. our omnitracs and omnivision systems operate on leased kurtz-under band (ku-band) satellite transponders in the united states, mexico and europe. our primary data satellite transponder and position reporting satellite transponder lease for the system in the united states runs through september 2012 and includes transponder and satellite protection (back-up capacity in the event of a transponder or satellite failure). the transponder lease for the system in mexico runs through april 2010 and does not currently have back-up capability. our agreement with a third party to provide network management and satellite space (including procuring satellite space) in europe expires in february 2013. we believe our agreements will provide sufficient transponder capacity for our omnitracs and omnivision operations through the expiration dates. a failure to maintain adequate satellite capacity could harm our business, operating results, liquidity and financial position. qes terrestrial-based products rely on wireless terrestrial communication networks operated by third parties. the unavailability or nonperformance of these network systems could harm our business. the products and services that we sell for use on globalstar inc. (globalstar) low-earth-orbit satellite network are dependent on the availability and performance of the globalstar satellite system. in february 2007, globalstar announced that many of its satellites were experiencing an anomaly resulting in degraded performance of the amplifiers for the s-band satellite communications antenna, which, if not remedied, could have a significant adverse impact on globalstar ability to provide uninterrupted two-way voice and data services on a continuous basis in any given location. in october 2007, globalstar announced that eight globalstar satellites were successfully launched, and stated that it believes the additional satellites will augment the current operating constellation and improve two-way voice and data services until the launch of the second-generation satellite constellation, which is scheduled to begin in the summer of 2009. if the launch of the satellites does not remedy the problem or if globalstar is unable to launch a second-generation satellite constellation, this degraded performance will have an adverse impact on sales of our products and services that rely on the globalstar network. our mediaflo network and systems currently operate in the united states market on a leased ku-band satellite transponder. our primary program content and data distribution satellite transponder lease runs through december 2012 and includes transponder and satellite protection (back-up capacity in the event of a transponder or satellite failure), which we believe will provide sufficient transponder capacity for our united states mediaflo service through fiscal 2012. additionally, our mediaflo transmitter sites are monitored and controlled by a variety of terrestrial-based data circuits relying on various terrestrial and satellite communication networks operated by third parties. a failure to maintain adequate satellite capacity or the unavailability or nonperformance of the terrestrial-based network systems could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. 31 table of contents our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology networking systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations or to our customers or licensees operations could result in a material disruption to our business. to the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our customers data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. in addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. data transmissions for qes operations are formatted and processed at the network management center in san diego, california, with a fully redundant backup network management center located in las vegas, nevada. content from third parties for mediaflo operations is received, processed and retransmitted at the broadcast operations center in san diego, california. certain brew products and services provided by our qis operations are hosted at the network operations center in san diego, california with a fully redundant backup network operations center located in las vegas, nevada. the centers, operated by us, are subject to system failures, which could interrupt the services and have an adverse effect on our operating results. from time to time, we install new or upgraded business management systems. to the extent such systems fail or are not properly implemented, we may experience material disruptions to our business, delays in our external financial reporting or failures in our system of internal controls, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. noncompliance with environmental or safety regulations could cause us to incur significant expenses and harm our business. as part of the development of our imod display technology, we are operating a research and development fabrication facility. the development of imod display prototypes is a complex and precise process involving hazardous materials subject to environmental and safety regulations. our failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental and safety regulations could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines and/or the suspension or termination of development activities. our stock repurchase program may not result in a positive return of capital to stockholders and may expose us to counterparty risk. at september 28, 2008, we had authority to repurchase up to $2.0 billion of our common stock. our stock repurchases may not return value to stockholders because the market price of the stock may decline significantly below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock. our stock repurchase program is intended to deliver stockholder value over the long-term, but stock price fluctuations can reduce the program effectiveness. as part of our stock repurchase program, we may sell put options or engage in structured derivative transactions to reduce the cost of repurchasing stock. in the event of a significant and unexpected drop in stock price, these arrangements may require us to repurchase stock at price levels that are significantly above the then-prevailing market price of our stock. such overpayments may have an adverse effect on the effectiveness of our overall stock repurchase program and may reduce value for our stockholders. in the event of financial insolvency or distress of a counterparty to our put options, structured derivative transactions or 10b5-1 stock repurchase plan, we may be unable to settle transactions. we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. we intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders. future dividends may be affected by, among other items, our views on potential future capital requirements, including those related to research and development, creation and expansion of sales distribution channels and investments and acquisitions, legal risks, stock repurchase programs, changes in federal income tax law and changes to our business model. our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. a reduction in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price. 32 table of contents government regulation and policies of industry standards bodies may adversely affect our business. our products and services and those of our customers and licensees are subject to various regulations, including fcc regulations in the united states and other international regulations, as well as the specifications of national, regional and international standards bodies. changes in the regulation of our activities, including changes in the allocation of available spectrum by the united states government and other governments or exclusion or limitation of our technology or products by a government or standards body, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, liquidity and financial position. we hold licenses in the united states from the fcc for the spectrum referred to as block d in the lower 700 mhz band (also known as tv channel 55) covering the entire nation and spectrum referred to as block e in the lower 700 mhz band (also known as tv channel 56) covering five economic areas on the east and west coasts for use in our mediaflo business. in addition, we hold licenses for the spectrum referred to as b block in the lower 700 mhz band for use initially in our various research and development initiatives. in using the licensed spectrum, we are regulated by the fcc pursuant to the terms of our licenses and the federal communications act of 1934, as amended, and pursuant to part 27 of the fcc rules, which are subject to a variety of ongoing fcc proceedings. it is impossible to predict with certainty the outcome of pending fcc or other federal or state regulatory proceedings relating to our mediaflo service or our use of the spectrum for which we hold licenses. unless we are able to obtain relief, existing laws and regulations may inhibit our ability to expand our business and to introduce new products and services. in addition, the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to the existing regulatory framework could adversely affect our business plans. we hold licenses in the united kingdom from the office of communications (ofcom) to use 40 mhz of spectrum in the so-called l-band (1452 mhz to 1492 mhz). these licenses give us the right to use this spectrum throughout the entire united kingdom. in using this spectrum, we are regulated by ofcom pursuant to the terms of our license and the united kingdom wireless technology act of 2006. the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to the existing regulatory framework could adversely affect our business plans. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our board members, executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. in addition, implementing our product and business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, and our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. the market for such specialized engineering and other talented employees in our industry is extremely competitive. in addition, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of u.s. universities, making the pool of available talent even smaller. key employees represent a significant asset, and the competition for these employees is intense in the wireless communications industry. in the event of a labor shortage, or in the event of an unfavorable change in prevailing labor and/or immigration laws, we could experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified employees. we continue to anticipate increases in human resource needs, particularly in engineering, through fiscal 2009. if we are unable to attract and retain the qualified employees that we need, our business may be harmed. we may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel in periods of poor operating performance given the significant use of incentive compensation by our competitors. we do not have employment agreements with our key management personnel and do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our personnel. to the extent that new regulations make it less attractive to grant share-based awards to employees or if stockholders do not authorize shares for the continuation of equity compensation programs in the future, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time. we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. complying with evolving interpretations of new or changed legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and procedures, and may divert management time and attention from revenue generating to compliance activities. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation might also be harmed. further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. 33 table of contents our charter documents and delaware law could limit transactions in which stockholders might obtain a premium over current market prices. our certificate of incorporation includes a provision that requires the approval of holders of at least 66 2/3% of our voting stock as a condition to certain mergers or other business transactions with, or proposed by, a holder of 15% or more of our voting stock. under our charter documents, stockholders are not permitted to call special meetings of our stockholders or to act by written consent. these charter provisions may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change in our control, including those offering stockholders a premium over current market prices. these provisions may also limit our stockholders ability to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. further, our board of directors has the authority under delaware law to fix the rights and preferences of and issue shares of preferred stock, and our preferred share purchase rights agreement will cause substantial dilution to the ownership of a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors. while our board of directors approved our preferred share purchase rights agreement to provide the board with greater ability to maximize shareholder value, these rights could deter takeover attempts that the board finds inadequate and make it more difficult to bring about a change in our ownership. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk credit risk. since september 2007, there has been a major disruption in u.s. and foreign credit and financial markets affecting consumers and the banking, finance and housing industries. this disruption is evidenced by a deterioration of confidence in financial markets and a severe decline in the availability of capital and demand for debt and equity securities. the result has been depressed security values and widening credit spreads in most types of investment- and non-investment-grade bonds and debt obligations and mortgage- and asset-backed securities. we have no direct investments in the lowest credit quality, or subprime, mortgages, nor do we have investments collateralized by assets that include subprime mortgages. we have indirect exposure to subprime mortgages to the extent of our investments in large, diversified financial companies, commercial banks, insurance companies and public/private investment funds that participate or invest in subprime mortgage loans, mortgage insurance or loan servicing, which could impact the fair values of our securities. at september 28, 2008, we held a significant portion of our corporate cash in diversified portfolios of fixed- and floating-rate, investment-grade marketable securities, mortgage- and asset-backed securities, non-investment-grade bank loans and bonds, preferred stocks, equities and other securities that have been affected by these credit market concerns and had temporary gross unrealized losses of $449 million. at october 31, 2008, gross unrealized losses of our marketable securities portfolio were approximately $1.3 billion. although we consider these unrealized losses to be temporary, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges or realized losses on the values of these and other similarly affected securities if u.s. credit and equity markets do not stabilize and recover to previous levels in the coming quarters. we engage in transactions in which certain fixed-income and equity securities are loaned to selected broker-dealers. we may incur a loss in the event that a broker does not return our securities, the collateral value is insufficient or cannot be maintained at required values or the lending agent fails to restore or pay us the cash value of our loaned securities. interest rate risk. we invest our cash in a number of diversified investment- and non-investment-grade fixed and floating rate securities, consisting of cash equivalents, marketable debt securities and debt mutual funds. changes in the general level of united states interest rates can affect the principal values and yields of fixed interest-bearing securities. if interest rates in the general economy were to rise rapidly in a short period of time, our fixed interest-bearing securities could lose value. when the general economy weakens significantly, as it has recently, the credit profile, financial strength and growth prospects of certain issuers of interest-bearing securities held in our investment portfolios may deteriorate, and our interest-bearing securities may lose value either temporarily or other than temporarily. we may implement investment strategies of different types with varying duration and risk/return trade-offs that do not perform well. 57 table of contents the following table provides information about our interest-bearing securities that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. the table presents principal cash flows, weighted-average yield at cost and contractual maturity dates. additionally, we have assumed that these securities are similar enough within the specified categories to aggregate these securities for presentation purposes. interest rate sensitivity principal amount by expected maturity average interest rates (dollars in millions) no single 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter maturity total fixed interest-bearing securities: cash and cash equivalents $ 758 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 758 interest rate 3.1 % available-for-sale securities: investment grade $ 1,562 $ 314 $ 279 $ 95 $ 39 $ 130 $ 198 $ 2,617 interest rate 3.4 % 3.9 % 3.9 % 4.0 % 5.2 % 8.7 % 5.0 % non-investment grade $ 42 $ 13 $ 41 $ 67 $ 84 $ 521 $ $ 768 interest rate 8.1 % 7.5 % 9.7 % 7.8 % 8.0 % 9.3 % floating interest-bearing securities: cash and cash equivalents $ 903 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 903 interest rate 2.0 % available-for-sale securities: investment grade $ 588 $ 711 $ 114 $ 68 $ $ 87 $ 574 $ 2,142 interest rate 2.9 % 3.0 % 3.1 % 3.1 % 5.2 % 4.5 % non-investment grade $ 13 $ 26 $ 57 $ 99 $ 136 $ 270 $ 684 $ 1,285 interest rate 4.5 % 6.8 % 7.4 % 7.1 % 7.2 % 7.5 % 7.1 % cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value. equity price risk. the recent major disruption in u.s. and foreign credit and financial markets caused increased volatility in the fair values of our equity securities and equity mutual and exchange-traded fund shares. we have a diversified marketable securities portfolio that includes equities held by mutual and exchange-traded fund shares that are subject to equity price risk. the recorded values of marketable equity securities decreased to $1.34 billion at september 28, 2008 from $1.52 billion at september 30, 2007. the recorded values of equity mutual fund and exchange-traded fund shares decreased to $1.28 billion at september 28, 2008 from $1.87 billion at september 30, 2007. the combined recorded values of marketable equity securities and equity mutual and exchange-traded fund shares decreased by approximately $725 million due to price declines and by approximately $48 million as a result of actions taken to reduce our exposure to equity investments. we have made investments in marketable equity securities of companies of varying size, style, industry and geography, and changes in investment allocations may affect the price volatility of our investments. a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual fund and exchange-traded fund shares at september 28, 2008 would cause a corresponding 10% decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities, or $262 million. at october 31, 2008, gross unrealized losses of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual fund and exchange-traded fund shares were approximately $786 million. foreign exchange risk. we manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, consisting primarily of foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial counterparties. such derivative financial instruments are viewed as hedging or risk management tools and are not used for speculative or trading purposes. at september 28, 2008, we had no foreign currency forward contracts outstanding. at september 28, 2008, we had a net asset of $37 million related to our foreign currency option contracts that hedge the foreign currency risk on royalties earned from certain international licensees on their sales of cdma and wcdma products. in the event of the financial insolvency or distress of a counterparty to our derivative financial instruments, we may be unable to settle transactions, which could materially impact our results. if our forecasted royalty revenues were to decline by 20% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in each of our hedged foreign currencies, we would incur a loss of approximately $8 million resulting from a decrease in fair value of the portion of our hedges that would be rendered ineffective. see notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1 the company and its significant accounting policies for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies. 58 table of contents financial instruments held by consolidated subsidiaries that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. as a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. as a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. while we may hedge certain transactions with non-united states customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate the risks discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks.risk factors 16 risk factors you should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this annual report in evaluating our business and our prospects. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. you should also refer to the other information set forth in this annual report, including our financial statements and the related notes. risks related to our businesses if deployment of our technologies does not expand as expected, our revenues may not grow as anticipated. we focus our business primarily on developing, patenting and commercializing cdma technology for wireless telecommunications applications. other digital wireless communications technologies, particularly gsm technology, have been more widely deployed than cdma technology. if adoption and use of cdma-based wireless communications standards do not continue in the countries where our products and those of our customers and licensees are sold, our business and financial results could suffer. if gsm wireless operators do not select cdma for their networks or upgrade their current networks to any cdma-based third-generation (3g) technology, our business and financial results could suffer since we have not previously generated significant revenues from sales of single-mode gsm products. in addition to cdma technology, we continue to invest in developing, patenting and commercializing ofdma technology, which has not yet been widely adopted and commercially deployed, and our mediaflo technology, which was commercially deployed in the united states in fiscal 2007. if ofdma is not widely adopted and commercially deployed and/or mediaflo technology is not more widely adopted by consumers in the united states or commercially deployed internationally, our investments in ofdma and mediaflo technologies may not provide us an adequate return. our business and the deployment of our technologies, products and services are dependent on the success of our customers, licensees and cdma-based wireless operators, as well as the timing of their deployment of new services. our licensees and cdma-based wireless operators may incur lower gross margins on products or services based on our technologies than on products using alternative technologies as a result of greater competition or other factors. if cdma-based wireless operators, wireless device and/or infrastructure manufacturers cease providing cdma-based products and/or services, the deployment of cdma technology could be negatively affected, and our business could suffer. we are dependent on the commercial deployment and upgrades of 3g wireless communications equipment, products and services to increase our revenues, and our business may be harmed if wireless network operators delay or are unsuccessful in the commercial deployment or upgrade of 3g technology or if they deploy other technologies. 16 table of contents to increase our revenues in future periods, we are dependent upon the commercial deployment and upgrades of 3g wireless communications equipment, products and services based on our cdma technology. although wireless network operators have commercially deployed cdma2000 and wcdma, we cannot predict the timing or success of further commercial deployments or expansions or upgrades of cdma2000, wcdma or other cdma systems. if existing deployments are not commercially successful or do not continue to grow their subscriber base, or if new commercial deployments of cdma2000, wcdma or other cdma-based systems are delayed or unsuccessful, our business and financial results may be harmed. in addition, our business could be harmed if wireless network operators deploy other technologies or switch existing networks from cdma to gsm without upgrading to wcdma or if wireless network operators introduce new technologies. a limited number of wireless operators have started testing ofdma technology, but the timing and extent of ofdma deployments is uncertain, and we might not be successful in developing and marketing ofdma products. our patent portfolio may not be as successful in generating licensing income with respect to other technologies as it has been for cdma-based technologies. although we own a very strong portfolio of issued and pending patents related to gsm, gprs, edge, ofdm, ofdma and/or multiple input, multiple output (mimo) technologies, our patent portfolio licensing program in these areas is less established and might not be as successful in generating licensing income as our cdma portfolio licensing program. many wireless operators are investigating or have selected lte (or to a lesser extent wimax) as next-generation technologies for deployment in existing or future spectrum bands as complementary to their existing cdma-based networks. although we believe that our patented technology is essential and useful to implementation of the lte and wimax standards and have granted royalty-bearing licenses to nine companies to make and sell products implementing those standards (including nokia and two other major handset oems), we might not achieve the same royalty revenues on such lte or wimax deployments as on cdma-based deployments, and we might not achieve the same level of success in selling lte or wimax products as we have in cdma-based products. our earnings are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market downturns. our revenues and earnings have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. general economic or other conditions have caused a downturn in the market for our products or technology. despite the recent improvements in market conditions, a future downturn in the market for our products or technology could adversely affect our operating results and increase the risk of substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations in our earnings. any prolonged credit crisis may result in the insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; delays in reporting and/or payments from our licensees; the inability of our customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products; customer/licensee insolvencies that impact our customers /licensees ability to pay us and/or cause our customers to change delivery schedules, cancel committed purchase orders or reduce purchase order commitment projections; uncertainty in global economies, which could impact demand for cdma-based products in various regions; counterparty failures negatively impacting our treasury operations; and the inability to utilize federal and/or state capital loss carryovers. volatility in financial markets has impacted, and could continue to impact, the value and performance of our marketable securities. net investment income could vary depending on the gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities, gains or losses from equity method investments, impairment charges related to marketable securities and other investments, changes in interest rates and changes in fair values of derivative instruments. our cash and marketable securities investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements and financial market conditions in fixed income and equity securities. our future operating results may be affected by many factors, including, but not limited to: our ability to retain existing or secure anticipated customers or licensees, both domestically and internationally; our ability to develop, introduce and market new technology, products and services on a timely basis; management of inventory by us and our customers and their customers in response to shifts in market demand; changes in the mix of technology and products developed, licensed, produced and sold; seasonal customer demand; disputes with our customers and licensees; and other factors described elsewhere in this annual report and in these risk factors. these factors affecting our future earnings are difficult to forecast and could harm our quarterly and/or annual operating results. if our earnings fail to meet the financial guidance we provide to investors, or the expectations of investment analysts or investors in any period, securities class action litigation could be brought against us and/or the market price of our common stock could decline. 17 table of contents global economic conditions that impact the wireless communications industry could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. despite the recent improvements in market conditions, a future decline in global economic conditions could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products of our customers, particularly wireless communications equipment manufacturers or other members of the wireless industry, such as wireless network operators. we cannot predict other negative events that may have adverse effects on the economy, on demand for wireless device products or on wireless device inventories at cdma-based equipment manufacturers and wireless operators. inflation and/or deflation and economic recessions that adversely affect the global economy and capital markets also adversely affect our customers and our end consumers. for example, our customers ability to purchase or pay for our products and services, obtain financing and upgrade wireless networks could be adversely affected, leading to cancellation or delay of orders for our products. also, our end consumers standards of living could be lowered, and their ability to purchase wireless devices based on our technology could be diminished. inflation could also increase our costs of raw materials and operating expenses and harm our business in other ways, and deflation could reduce our revenues if product prices fall. any of these results from worsening global economic conditions could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. during fiscal 2009, 69% of our revenues were from customers and licensees based in south korea, china and japan as compared to 70% and 69% during fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively. these customers sell their products to markets worldwide, including in japan, south korea, china, india, north america, south america and europe. a significant downturn in the economies of asian countries where many of our customers and licensees are located, particularly the economies of south korea, japan and china, or the economies of the major markets they serve could materially harm our business. in addition, the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of war or terrorism, may cause disruptions to the global economy and to the wireless communications industry and create uncertainties. should such negative events occur, subsequent economic recovery might not benefit us in the near term. if it does not, our ability to increase or maintain our revenues and operating results may be impaired. in addition, because we intend to continue to make significant investments in research and development and to maintain extensive ongoing customer service and support capability, any decline in the rate of growth of our revenues will have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. our four largest customers accounted for 49% of consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009, 42% in fiscal 2008 and 34% in fiscal 2007. the loss of any one of our major customers or any reduction in the demand for devices utilizing our cdma technology could reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or sustain desired levels of operating results. the loss of any one of our qct segment significant customers or the delay, even if only temporary, or cancellation of significant orders from any of these customers would reduce our revenues in the period of the cancellation or deferral and harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected levels of operating results. we derive a significant portion of our qct segment revenues from four major customers. accordingly, unless and until our qct segment diversifies and expands its customer base, our future success will significantly depend upon the timing and size of any future purchase orders from these customers. factors that may impact the size and timing of orders from customers of our qct segment include, among others, the following: the product requirements of our customers and the network operators; the level of component integration and interoperability required by operators; the financial and operational success of our customers; the success of our customers products that incorporate our products; changes in wireless penetration growth rates; value added features which drive replacement rates; shortages of key products and components; fluctuations in channel inventory levels; the success of products sold to our customers by competitors; the rate of deployment of new technology by the wireless network operators and the rate of adoption of new technology by the end consumers; 18 table of contents the extent to which certain customers successfully develop and produce cdma-based integrated circuits and system software to meet their own needs or source such products from other suppliers; general economic conditions; and changes in governmental regulations in countries where we or our customers currently operate or plan to operate. we derive a significant portion of our royalty revenues in our qtl segment from a limited number of licensees and our future success depends on the ability of our licensees to obtain market acceptance for their products. our qtl segment today derives royalty revenues primarily from sales of cdma products by our licensees. although we have more than 175 licensees, we derive a significant portion of our royalty revenues from a limited number of licensees. our future success depends upon the ability of our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver high-volume products that achieve and sustain market acceptance. we have little or no control over the sales efforts of our licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. reductions in the average selling price of wireless communications devices utilizing our cdma technology, without a comparable increase in the volumes of such devices sold, could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may not be able to modify some of our license agreements to license later patents without modifying some of the other material terms and conditions of such license agreements, and such modifications may impact our revenues. the licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date, and, in a small number of agreements, royalties are payable on those patents for a specified time period. as a result, there are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us under our license agreements. in order to license any such later patents, we will need to extend or modify our license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees. we might not be able to modify such license agreements in the future to license any such later patents or extend such date(s) to incorporate later patents without affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees. efforts by some telecommunications equipment manufacturers to avoid paying fair and reasonable royalties for the use of our intellectual property may create uncertainty about our future business prospects, may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources, and may result in legal decisions and/or political actions by foreign governments that harm our business. a small number of companies have initiated various strategies in an attempt to renegotiate, mitigate and/or eliminate their need to pay royalties to us for the use of our intellectual property in order to negatively affect our business model and that of our other licensees. these strategies have included (i) litigation, often alleging infringement of patents held by such companies, patent misuse, patent exhaustion and patent and license unenforceability, or some form of unfair competition, (ii) taking questionable positions on the interpretation of contracts with us, (iii) appeals to governmental authorities, such as the complaints filed with the european commission (ec) during the fourth calendar quarter of 2005 and with the korea fair trade commission (kftc) and the japan fair trade commission (jftc) during 2006, (iv) collective action, including working with carriers, standards bodies, other like-minded technology companies and other organizations, formal and informal, to adopt intellectual property policies and practices which could have the effect of limiting returns on intellectual property innovations and (v) lobbying with governmental regulators and elected officials for the purpose of seeking the imposition of some form of compulsory licensing and/or to weaken a patent holder ability to enforce its rights or obtain a fair return for such rights. a number of these strategies are purportedly based on interpretations of the policies of certain standards development organizations concerning the licensing of patents that are or may be essential to industry standards and our alleged failure to abide by these policies. there is a risk that relevant courts or governmental agencies will interpret those policies in a manner adverse to our interests. six companies (nokia, ericsson, panasonic, texas instruments, broadcom and nec) submitted separate formal complaints to the competition directorate of the ec accusing our business practices, with respect to licensing of patents and sales of chipsets, to be in violation of article 82 of the ec treaty. we received the complaints, submitted a response and have cooperated with the ec in its investigation. on october 1, 2007, the ec announced that it had initiated a proceeding. to date, the ec has not announced whether it would issue a statement of objections or whether it has made any conclusions as to the merits of the complaints. on july 23, 2008, we entered into an agreement with nokia in which nokia agreed to withdraw its complaint as part of the settlement of disputes between the parties, and on april 26, 2009, we entered into an agreement with broadcom in which broadcom agreed to withdraw its complaint as part of the settlement of disputes between the parties; however, although nokia and 19 table of contents broadcom have each withdrawn their complaints, the investigation remains active. while the ec actions to date do not indicate that the ec has found any evidence of a violation by us and we believe that none of our business practices violate the legal requirements of article 82 of the ec treaty, if the ec determines liability as to any of the alleged violations, it could impose fines and/or require us to modify our practices. further, the continuation of this investigation could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. although such potential adverse findings may be appealed within the ec legal system, an adverse final determination could have a significant negative impact on our revenues and/or earnings. two u.s. companies (texas instruments and broadcom) and two south korean companies (nextreaming corp. and thin multimedia, inc.) filed complaints with the kftc alleging that certain of our business practices violate south korean anti-trust regulations. on february 17, 2009, the kftc issued a case examiner report setting forth allegations with respect to the lawfulness of certain business practices related to our integration of multimedia solutions into our chipsets, rebates and discounts provided to our chipset customers and of certain licensing practices. as a result of its agreement with us, in may 2009 broadcom withdrew its complaint to the kftc. hearings before the kftc commenced on may 27, 2009, and on july 23, 2009, the kftc announced its ruling in the case, although the written decision has not yet been issued. the kftc announced that it found us to be in violation of south korean law by offering certain discounts and rebates for purchases of our cdma chips and that it would levy a fine of at least 260 billion korean won, as well as order us to cease the practices at issue. we intend to appeal the written decision once issued. as a result of this announcement, we recorded a $230 million charge during fiscal 2009. we do not anticipate that the cease and desist remedies ordered will have a material effect on our operations. in july 2009, the kftc also announced that it would continue its review of our integration of multimedia functions into our chipsets, but it has not announced any decisions in that regard. the jftc has also received unspecified complaints alleging that our business practices are, in some way, a violation of japanese law. we have not received the complaints but we have submitted certain requested information and documents to the jftc regarding the non-assert, cross-licensing and royalty provisions in our license agreements and brew agreements. on september 29, 2009, the jftc issued a cease and desist order (cdo) concluding that our japanese licensees were forced to cross-license patents to us on a royalty-free basis and were forced to accept a provision under which they agreed not to assert their essential patents against our other licensees who made a similar commitment in their license agreements with us. the cdo seeks to require us to modify our existing license agreements with japanese companies to eliminate these provisions while preserving the license of our patents to those companies. we disagree with the conclusions that we forced our japanese licensees to agree to any provision in the parties agreements and that those provisions violate japan anti-monopoly act. we intend to invoke our right under japanese law to an administrative hearing before the jftc, request that the jftc suspend the cdo pending a decision following the hearing, and seek a stay of the cdo from the japanese courts should the jftc deny our request to suspend the cdo. rejection of our requests to suspend or stay the cdo or an adverse final determination following administrative and judicial (if necessary) review of the cdo could have a significant negative impact on our business, including our revenues and/or earnings. we believe that none of our business practices violate the legal requirements of south korean competition law or japanese competition law. however, continuation of the kftc investigation and administrative and judicial review of the kftc written decision and the jftc cdo could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. although we believe that these challenges are without merit, and we will continue to vigorously defend our intellectual property and contract rights and our right to continue to receive a fair return for our innovations, the distractions caused by challenges to our business model and licensing program are undesirable and the legal and other costs associated with defending our position have been and continue to be significant. we assume, as should investors, that such challenges will continue into the foreseeable future and may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources to explain and defend our position. the enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive and could divert our valuable resources. we rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes, including our patent portfolio. policing unauthorized use of our products and technologies is difficult and time consuming. we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary intellectual property rights as fully or as readily as united states laws. we cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country, including the united states, or the practices of any of the standards bodies, foreign or 20 table of contents domestic, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing, issuance of wireless licenses or the adoption of standards, will not be changed in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. the vast majority of our patents and patent applications relate to our wireless communications technology and much of the remainder of our patents and patent applications relate to our other technologies and products. we may need to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. as a result of any such litigation, we could lose our ability to enforce one or more patents or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. any action we take to enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. in addition, failure to protect our trademark rights could impair our brand identity. claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property or that patents on which we rely are invalid could adversely affect our business. from time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights against our products or products using our technologies or other technologies used in our industry. these claims have resulted and may again result in our involvement in litigation. we may not prevail in such litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if any of our products were found to infringe on another company intellectual property rights, we could be subject to an injunction or required to redesign our products, which could be costly, or to license such rights and/or pay damages or other compensation to such other company. if we were unable to redesign our products, license such intellectual property rights used in our products or otherwise distribute our products through a licensed supplier, we could be prohibited from making and selling such products. we expect that we will continue to be involved in litigation and may have to appear in front of administrative bodies (such as the u.s. international trade commission) to defend against patent assertions against our products by companies, some of whom are attempting to gain competitive advantage or negotiating leverage in licensing negotiations. we may not be successful and, if we are not, the range of possible outcomes includes everything from a royalty payment to an injunction on the sale of certain of our chipsets (and on the sale of our customers devices using our chipsets) and the imposition of royalty payments that might make purchases of our chipsets less economical for our customers. a negative outcome in any such litigation could severely disrupt the business of our chipset customers and their wireless customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with our chipset customers and wireless operators and could result in a decline in our share of worldwide chipset sales and/or a reduction in our licensees sales to wireless operators, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. in addition, as the number of competitors or other patent holders in the market increases and the functionality of our products expands to include additional technologies and features, we may become subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others. any claims, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming to address, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our operating results. in any potential dispute involving other companies patents or other intellectual property, our chipset suppliers and customers could also become the targets of litigation. we are contingently liable under certain product sales, services, license and other agreements to indemnify certain customers against certain types of liability and/or damages arising from qualifying claims of patent infringement by products or services sold or provided by us. reimbursements under indemnification arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. furthermore, any such litigation could severely disrupt the supply of our products and the business of our chipset customers and their wireless operator customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with our chipset customers and wireless operators and could result in a decline in our chipset sales and/or a reduction in our licensees sales to wireless operators, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. a number of other companies have claimed to own patents essential to various cdma standards, gsm standards and ofdma standards or implementations of ofdm and ofdma systems. if we or other product manufacturers are required to obtain additional licenses and/or pay royalties to one or more patent holders, this could have a material adverse effect on the commercial implementation of our cdma, gsm, ofdma or multimode products and technologies, demand for our licensees products and our profitability. other companies or entities also have, and may again, commence actions seeking to establish the invalidity of our patents. in the event that one or more of our patents are challenged, a court may invalidate the patent(s) or determine that the patent(s) is not enforceable, which could harm our competitive position. if our key patents are 21 table of contents invalidated, or if the scope of the claims in any of these patents is limited by court decision, we could be prevented from licensing the invalidated or limited portion of such patents. such adverse decisions could negatively impact our revenues. even if such a patent challenge is not successful, it could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. our industry is subject to competition that could result in decreased demand for our products and the products of our customers and licensees and/or declining average selling prices for our licensees products and our products, negatively affecting our revenues and operating results. we currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that competition will continue. competition in the telecommunications market is affected by various factors, including: comprehensiveness of products and technologies; value added features which drive replacement rates and selling prices; manufacturing capability; scalability and the ability of the system technology to meet customers immediate and future network requirements; product performance and quality; design and engineering capabilities; compliance with industry standards; time-to-market; system cost; and customer support. this competition may result in increased development costs and reduced average selling prices for our products and those of our customers and licensees. reductions in the average selling prices of our licensees products, unless offset by an increase in volumes, generally result in reduced royalties payable to us. while pricing pressures from competition may, to a large extent, be mitigated by the introduction of new features and functionality in our licensees products as evidenced by the recent success of smartphones and other feature rich, data capable devices, there is no guarantee that such mitigation will continue to occur. we anticipate that additional competitors will enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in wireless telecommunications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in selected segments of the industry. companies that promote non-cdma technologies (e.g., gsm, wimax) and companies that design competing cdma-based integrated circuits are generally included amongst our competitors or potential competitors in the united states or abroad. examples (some of whom are strategic partners of ours in other areas) include broadcom, freescale, fujitsu, icera, infineon, intel, mediatek, nec, nvidia, renesas, st-ericsson (a joint venture between ericsson mobile platforms and st-nxp wireless), texas instruments and via telecom. with respect to our qes business, our competitors are aggressively pricing products and services and are offering new value-added products and services, which may impact margins, intensify competition in current and new markets and harm our ability to compete in certain markets. many of these current and potential competitors have advantages over us, including: longer operating histories and market presence; greater name recognition; motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to find alternate suppliers; access to larger customer bases; economies of scale and cost structure advantages; greater sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources; and government support of other technologies. as a result of these and other factors, our competitors may be more successful than us. in addition, we anticipate new competitors, including companies not previously engaged in manufacturing telecommunications chipsets, to 22 table of contents begin offering and selling products based on 3g standards, lte and wimax. these competitors may have more established relationships and distribution channels in markets not currently deploying cdma-based wireless communications technology. these competitors also may have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with our existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. these relationships may affect our customers decisions to purchase products or license technology from us or to use alternative technologies. accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share of sales to our detriment. in addition to the foregoing, we have seen, and believe we will continue to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including chipsets, that will operate in an open source environment, which offers practical accessibility to a portion of a product source code. developing open source compliant products, without imperiling the intellectual property rights upon which our licensing business depends, may prove difficult under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage for new product designs. we continue to believe our flo tv service offering provides compelling advantages to consumers. however, we face indirect competition to our flo tv products and services from wireless delivery of streaming and downloadable video content via wireless operators, oems and other providers of mobile video content, as well as from internet video content accessed through the mobile web browser. while we continue to believe our qmt division interferometric modulator (imod) displays will offer compelling advantages to users of displays, there can be no assurance that other technologies will not continue to improve in ways that reduce the advantages we anticipate from our imod displays. sales of flat panel displays are currently, and we believe will likely continue to be for some time, dominated by displays based on liquid crystal display (lcd) technology. numerous companies are making substantial investments in, and conducting research to improve characteristics of, lcds. additionally, several other flat panel display technologies have been, or are being, developed, including technologies for the production of organic light-emitting diode (oled), field emission, inorganic electroluminescence, gas plasma and vacuum fluorescent displays. in each case, advances in lcd or other flat panel display technologies could result in technologies that are more cost effective, have fewer display limitations or can be brought to market faster than our imod technology. these advances in competing technologies might cause display manufacturers to avoid entering into commercial relationships with us, or not renew planned or existing relationships with us. our qmt division had $389 million in assets (including $128 million in goodwill) at september 27, 2009. if we do not achieve adequate market penetration with our imod display technology, our assets may become impaired, which could negatively impact our operating results. attempts by certain companies, if successful, to amend or modify standards development organizations (sdos) and other industry forums intellectual property policies could impact our licensing business. some companies have proposed significant changes to existing intellectual property policies for implementation by sdos and other industry organizations, some of which would require a maximum aggregate intellectual property royalty rate for the use of all essential patents owned by all of the member companies to be applied to the selling price of any product implementing the relevant standard. they have further proposed that such maximum aggregate royalty rate be apportioned to each member company with essential patents based upon the number of essential patents held by such company. in may 2007, seven companies (nokia, nokia-siemens, nec, ericsson, sonyericsson, alcatel-lucent and nextwave) issued a press release announcing their commitment to the principles described above with respect to the licensing of patents essential to lte and inviting all other industry participants to join them in adopting such policies. although the european telecommunications standards institute (etsi) ipr special committee and the next generation mobile network industry group have thus far determined that such proposals should not be adopted as amendments to existing etsi policies or new policies, and no other companies have joined these seven companies, such proposals as described above might be revisited within etsi and might be adopted by other sdos or industry groups, formal and/or informal, resulting in a potential disadvantage to our business model either by artificially limiting our return on investment with respect to new technologies or forcing us to work outside of the sdos or such other industry groups for promoting our new technologies. we depend upon a limited number of third-party suppliers to manufacture and test component parts, subassemblies and finished goods for our products. if these third-party suppliers do not allocate adequate manufacturing and test capacity in their facilities to produce products on our behalf, or if there are any disruptions in the operations, or the loss, of any of these third parties, it could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers, reduce our revenues, increase our cost of sales and harm our business. a supplier ability to meet our product manufacturing demand is limited mainly by its overall capacity and current capacity availability. our ability to meet customer demand depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely 23 table of contents and adequate delivery of parts and components from our suppliers. a reduction or interruption in our product supply source, an inability of our suppliers to react to shifts in product demand or an increase in component prices could have a material adverse effect on our business or profitability. component shortages could adversely affect our ability and that of our customers to ship products on a timely basis and, as a result, our customers demand for our products. any such shipment delays or declines in demand could reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or sustain desired levels of profitability. additionally, failure to meet customer demand in a timely manner could damage our reputation and harm our customer relationships. our operations may also be harmed by lengthy or recurring disruptions at any of our suppliers manufacturing facilities and by disruptions in the distribution channels from our suppliers and to our customers. any such disruptions could cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift the products from an affected manufacturer to another manufacturer. if the affected supplier was a sole-source supplier, we may not be able to obtain the product without significant cost and delay. the loss of a significant third-party supplier or the inability of a third-party supplier to meet performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers and negatively impact our revenues and business operations. qct segment. although we have entered into long-term contracts with our suppliers, most of these contracts do not provide for long-term capacity commitments, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order that has been accepted by our supplier. to the extent that we do not have firm commitments from our suppliers over a specific time period, or in any specific quantity, our suppliers may allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production and testing of products for their other customers while reducing capacity to manufacture our products. accordingly, capacity for our products may not be available when we need it or available at reasonable prices. we have experienced capacity limitations from our suppliers, which resulted in supply constraints and our inability to meet certain customer demand. there can be no assurance that we will not experience these or other supply constraints in the future, which could result in our failure to meet customer demand. while our goal is to establish alternate suppliers for technologies that we consider critical, some of our integrated circuits products are only available from single sources, with which we do not have long-term capacity commitments. our reliance on sole- or limited-source suppliers involves significant risks including possible shortages of manufacturing capacity, poor product performance and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability and yields, quality assurance, quantity and costs. our arrangements with our suppliers may oblige us to incur costs to manufacture and test our products that do not decrease at the same rate as decreases in pricing to our customers which may result in lowering our operating margins. in addition, the timely readiness of our foundry suppliers to support transitions to smaller geometry process technologies could impact our ability to meet customer demand, revenues and cost expectations. the timing of acceptance of the smaller technology designs by our customers may subject us to the risk of excess inventories of earlier designs. in the event of a loss of, or a decision to change, a key third-party supplier, qualifying a new foundry supplier and commencing volume production or testing could involve delay and expense, resulting in lost revenues, reduced operating margins and possible loss of customers. we work closely with our customers to expedite their processes for evaluating new integrated circuits from our foundry suppliers; however, in some instances, transition of integrated circuit production to a new foundry supplier may cause a temporary decline in shipments of specific integrated circuits to individual customers. under our integrated fabless manufacturing (ifm) model, we purchase die from semiconductor manufacturing foundries, contract with separate third-party manufacturers for back-end assembly and test services and ship the completed integrated circuits to our customers. we are unable to directly control the services provided by our semiconductor assembly and test (sat) suppliers, including the timely procurement of packaging materials for our products, availability of assembly and test capacity, manufacturing yields, quality assurance and product delivery schedules. we have a limited history of working with the sat suppliers under the ifm model, and we cannot guarantee that our lack of control will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers, reduce our revenues or increase our cost of sales. qmt division. qmt needs to form and maintain reliable business relationships with flat panel display manufacturers or other targeted partners to support the manufacture of imod displays in commercial volumes. all of our current relationships have been for the development and limited production of certain imod display panels and/or modules. some or all of these relationships may not succeed or, even if they are successful, may not result in the display manufacturers entering into material supply relationships with us. flo tv business. flo tv depends on a limited number of third-party suppliers to manufacture and test component parts, subassemblies and finished goods for products related to our direct-to-consumer flo tv service 24 table of contents offering. if these third-party suppliers do not allocate adequate manufacturing and test capacity in their facilities to produce products on our behalf, or if there are any disruptions in the operations, or the loss, of any of these third parties, our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers could be harmed, which could negatively impact our operating results. lack of devices could also delay subscriber adoption of our flo tv service. our suppliers may also be our competitors, putting us at a disadvantage for pricing and capacity allocation. one or more of our suppliers may obtain licenses from us to manufacture cdma-based integrated circuits that compete with our products. in this event, the supplier could elect to allocate raw materials and manufacturing capacity to their own products and reduce deliveries to us to our detriment. in addition, we may not receive reasonable pricing, manufacturing or delivery terms. we cannot guarantee that the actions of our suppliers will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost of sales. we, and our licensees, are subject to the risks of conducting business outside the united states. a significant part of our strategy involves our continued pursuit of growth opportunities in a number of international market locations. we market, sell and service our products internationally. we have established sales offices around the world. we expect to continue to expand our international sales operations and to sell products in additional countries and locations. this expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources to successfully develop direct and indirect international sales and support channels, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful or that our expenditures in this effort will not exceed the amount of any resulting revenues. if we are not able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products and technologies, we may not be able to maintain a desired rate of growth in our business. our international customers sell their products to markets throughout the world, including china, india, japan, south korea, north america, south america and europe. we distinguish revenues from external customers by geographic areas based on the location to which our products, software or services are delivered and, for qtl licensing and royalty revenue, the invoiced address of our licensees. consolidated revenues from international customers as a percentage of total revenues were greater than 90% in both fiscal 2009 and 2008 and were 87% in fiscal 2007. in many international markets, barriers to entry are created by long-standing relationships between our potential customers and their local service providers and protective regulations, including local content and service requirements. in addition, our pursuit of international growth opportunities may require significant investments for an extended period before we realize returns, if any, on our investments. our business could be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors, including: difficulty in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights and/or contracts in a particular foreign jurisdiction, including challenges to our licensing practices under such jurisdictions competition laws; adoption of mandatory licensing provisions by foreign jurisdictions (either with controlled/regulated royalties or royalty free); challenges pending before foreign competition agencies to the pricing and integration of additional features and functionality into our wireless chipset products; our inability to succeed in significant foreign markets, such as china, india or europe; cultural differences in the conduct of business; difficulty in attracting qualified personnel and managing foreign activities; longer payment cycles for and greater difficulties collecting accounts receivable; export controls, tariffs and other trade protection measures; nationalization, expropriation and limitations on repatriation of cash; social, economic and political instability; natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war; taxation; variability in the value of the dollar against foreign currency; and changes in laws and policies affecting trade, foreign investments, licensing practices, loans and employment. 25 table of contents we cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing, issuance of wireless licenses or the adoption of standards will not be changed or enforced in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. the wireless markets in china and india, among others, represent growth opportunities for us. if wireless operators in china or india, or the governments of china or india, make technology deployment or other decisions that result in actions that are adverse to the expansion of cdma technologies, our business could be harmed. we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide subsidies on wireless device sales to their customers. increases in device prices that negatively impact device sales can result from changes in regulatory policies related to device subsidies. limitations or changes in policy on device subsidies in south korea, japan, china and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues. currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues, harm our ability to collect receivables, or increase the u.s. dollar cost of the activities of our foreign subsidiaries and international strategic investments. we are exposed to risk from fluctuations in currencies, which may change over time as our business practices evolve, that could impact our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. we operate and invest globally. adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business due to a number of situations, including the following: if the effective price of products sold by our customers were to increase as a result of fluctuations in the exchange rate of the relevant currencies, demand for the products could fall, which in turn would reduce our royalty and chipset revenues. our products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold in u.s. dollars become less price-competitive in international markets if the value of the u.s. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies, and our revenues may not grow as quickly as they otherwise might in response to worldwide growth in wireless products and services. declines in currency values in selected regions may adversely affect our operating results because our products and those of our customers and licensees may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. assets or liabilities of our consolidated subsidiaries and our foreign investees that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations, which may affect our reported earnings. our exposure to foreign currencies may increase as we increase our presence in existing markets or expand into new markets. investments in our consolidated foreign subsidiaries and in other foreign entities that use the local currency as the functional currency may decline in value as a result of declines in local currency values. certain of our revenues, such as royalty revenues, are derived from licensee or customer sales that are denominated in foreign currencies. if these revenues are not subject to foreign exchange hedging transactions, weakening of currency values in selected regions could adversely affect our near term revenues and cash flows. in addition, continued weakening of currency values in selected regions over an extended period of time could adversely affect our future revenues and cash flows. we may engage in foreign exchange hedging transactions that could affect our cash flows and earnings because they may require the payment of structuring fees, they may limit the u.s. dollar value of royalties from licensees sales that are denominated in foreign currencies, and they expose us to counterparty risk if the counterparty fails to perform. our trade receivables are generally u.s. dollar denominated. any significant increase in the value of the dollar against our customers or licensees functional currencies could result in an increase in our customers or licensees cash flow requirements and could consequently affect our ability to sell products and collect receivables. strengthening currency values in selected regions may adversely affect our operating results because the activities of our foreign subsidiaries, and the costs of procuring component parts and chipsets from foreign vendors, may become more expensive in u.s. dollars. 26 table of contents strengthening currency values in selected regions may adversely affect our cash flows and investment results because strategic investment obligations denominated in foreign currencies may become more expensive, and the u.s. dollar cost of equity in losses of foreign investees may increase. weakening currency values in selected regions may adversely affect the value of our marketable securities issued in foreign markets. we may engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make investments that could result in significant changes or management disruption and fail to enhance stockholder value. from time to time, we engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make investments with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. we acquire businesses, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase equity and debt securities, including minority interests in publicly-traded and private companies, non-investment-grade debt securities, equity and debt mutual and exchange-traded funds, corporate bonds/notes, auction rate securities and mortgage/asset-backed securities. many of our strategic investments are in early-stage companies to support our business, including the global adoption of cdma-based technologies and related services. most of our strategic investments entail a high degree of risk and will not become liquid until more than one year from the date of investment, if at all. our acquisitions or strategic investments (either those we have completed or may undertake in the future) may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies. in addition, our other investments may not generate financial returns or may result in losses due to market volatility, the general level of interest rates and inflation expectations. in some cases, we may be required to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of those companies. our share of any losses will adversely affect our financial results until we exit from or reduce our exposure to these investments. achieving the anticipated benefits of acquisitions depends in part upon our ability to integrate the acquired businesses in an efficient and effective manner. the integration of companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, and we may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. the difficulties of integrating companies include, among others: retaining key employees; maintaining important relationships of qualcomm and the acquired business; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business matters; coordinating geographically separate organizations; consolidating research and development operations; and consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. we cannot assure you that the integration of acquired businesses with our business will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated by us to result from the acquisition. we may not derive any commercial value from the acquired technology, products and intellectual property or from future technologies and products based on the acquired technology and/or intellectual property, and we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by indemnification protection we may obtain. defects or errors in our products and services or in products made by our suppliers could harm our relations with our customers and expose us to liability. similar problems related to the products of our customers or licensees could harm our business. if we experience product liability claims or recalls, we may incur significant expenses and experience decreased demand for our products. our products are inherently complex and may contain defects and errors that are detected only when the products are in use. for example, as our chipset product complexities increase, we are required to migrate to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes. the design process interface issues are more complex as we enter into these new domains of technology, which adds risk to yields and reliability. because our products and services are responsible for critical functions in our customers products and/or networks, such defects or errors could have a serious impact on our customers, which could damage our reputation, harm our customer relationships and expose us to liability. defects or impurities in our components, materials or software or those used by our customers or licensees, equipment failures or other difficulties could adversely affect our ability, and that of our customers and licensees, to ship products on a timely basis as well as customer or licensee demand for our products. any such shipment delays or declines in demand could reduce our revenues and harm our ability to achieve or sustain desired levels of profitability. we and our customers or licensees may also experience component or software failures or defects that could require significant product recalls, rework and/or repairs that are not covered by warranty reserves 27 table of contents and which could consume a substantial portion of the capacity of our third-party manufacturers or those of our customers or licensees. resolving any defect or failure related issues could consume financial and/or engineering resources that could affect future product release schedules. additionally, a defect or failure in our products or the products of our customers or licensees could harm our reputation and/or adversely affect the growth of 3g wireless markets. testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our products and those of our licensees and customers entail the risk of product liability. the use of wireless devices containing our products to access untrusted content creates a risk of exposing the system software in those devices to viral or malicious attacks. we continue to expand our focus on this issue and take measures to safeguard the software from this threat. however, this issue carries the risk of general product liability claims along with the associated impacts on reputation and demand. although we carry product liability insurance to protect against product liability claims, we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to protect us against losses due to product liability claims, or that we will be able to continue to maintain such insurance at a reasonable cost. furthermore, not all losses associated with alleged product failure are insurable. our inability to maintain insurance at an acceptable cost or to protect ourselves in other ways against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products and those of our licensees and customers and harm our future operating results. in addition, a product liability claim or recall, whether against our licensees, customers or us could harm our reputation and result in decreased demand for our products. flo tv does not fully control promotional activities necessary to stimulate demand for our services that are offered through the wireless operator channel. our flo tv business is a wholesale provider of a mobile entertainment and information service to our wireless operator partners. we do not set the retail price of our service when it is provided wholesale, nor do we directly control all of the marketing and promotion of the service to the wireless operator subscriber base. therefore, we are dependent upon our wireless operator partners to price, market and otherwise promote our service to their end users. if our wireless operator partners do not effectively price, market and otherwise promote the service offered through the wireless operator channel to their subscriber base, our ability to achieve the subscriber and revenue targets contemplated in our business plan will be negatively impacted. consumer acceptance and adoption of our mediaflo technology and mobile commerce applications will have a considerable impact on the success of our flo tv and firethorn businesses, respectively. consumer acceptance of our flo tv and firethorn service offerings are, and will continue to be, affected by technology-based differences and by the operational performance, quality, reliability and coverage of our wireless network and services platforms. consumer demand could be impacted by differences in technology, coverage and service areas, network quality, consumer perceptions, program and service offerings and rate plans. our wireless operator and financial services partners may have difficulty retaining subscribers if we are unable to meet subscriber expectations for network quality and coverage, customer care, content or security. obtaining content for our flo tv business that is appealing to subscribers on economically feasible terms may be limited by our content provider partners inability to obtain the mobile rights to such programming. an inability to address these issues could limit our ability to expand our subscriber base placing us at a competitive disadvantage, which could adversely affect our operating results. additionally, adoption and deployment of our mediaflo technology could be adversely impacted by government regulatory practices that support a single standard other than our technology, wireless operator selection of competing technologies or consumer preferences. if mediaflo technology is not more widely adopted by consumers in the united states or commercially deployed internationally, our investment in mediaflo technology may not provide us an adequate return. our business and operating results will be harmed if we are unable to manage growth in our business. certain of our businesses have experienced periods of rapid growth and/or increased their international activities, placing significant demands on our managerial, operational and financial resources. in order to manage growth and geographic expansion, we must continue to improve and develop our management, operational and financial systems and controls, including quality control and delivery and service capabilities. we also need to continue to expand, train and manage our employee base. we must carefully manage research and development capabilities and production and inventory levels to meet product demand, new product introductions and product and technology transitions. we cannot assure you that we will be able to timely and effectively meet that demand and maintain the quality standards required by our existing and potential customers and licensees. in addition, inaccuracies in our demand forecasts, or failure of the systems used to develop the forecasts, could quickly result in either insufficient or excessive inventories and disproportionate overhead expenses. if we 28 table of contents ineffectively manage our growth or are unsuccessful in recruiting and retaining personnel, our business and operating results will be harmed. our stock price may be volatile. the stock market in general, and the stock prices of technology-based and wireless communications companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company. the market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future as well. factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock include: announcements concerning us or our competitors, including the selection of wireless communications technology by wireless operators and the timing of the roll-out of those systems; court or regulatory body decisions or settlements regarding intellectual property licensing and patent litigation and arbitration; receipt of substantial orders or order cancellations for integrated circuits and system software products; quality deficiencies in services or products; announcements regarding financial developments or technological innovations; international developments, such as technology mandates, political developments or changes in economic policies; lack of capital to invest in 3g networks; new commercial products; changes in recommendations of securities analysts; general stock market volatility; disruption in the u.s. and foreign credit and financial markets affecting both the availability of credit and credit spreads on investment securities; government regulations, including tax regulations; energy blackouts; acts of terrorism and war; inflation and deflation; concerns regarding global economic conditions that may impact one or more of the countries in which we, our customers or our licensees compete; widespread illness; proprietary rights or product or patent litigation against us or against our customers or licensees; strategic transactions, such as spin-offs, acquisitions and divestitures; or rumors or allegations regarding our financial disclosures or practices. our future earnings and stock price may be subject to volatility, particularly on a quarterly basis. shortfalls in our revenues or earnings in any given period relative to the levels expected by securities analysts could immediately, significantly and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. in the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. due to changes in the potential volatility of our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. securities and patent litigation could result in substantial uninsured costs and divert management attention and resources. in addition, stock price volatility may be precipitated by failure to meet earnings expectations or other factors, such as the potential uncertainty in future reported earnings created by the assumptions used for share-based compensation and the related valuation models used to determine such expense. our industry is subject to rapid technological change, and we must make substantial investments in new products, services and technologies to compete successfully. new technological innovations generally require a substantial investment before they are commercially viable. we intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing new products and technologies, and it is 29 table of contents possible that our development efforts will not be successful and that our new technologies will not result in meaningful revenues. in particular, we intend to continue to invest significant resources in developing integrated circuit products to support high-speed wireless internet access and multimode, multiband, multinetwork operation and multimedia applications, which encompass development of graphical display, camera and video capabilities, as well as higher computational capability and lower power on-chip computers and signal processors. we also continue to invest in the development of our plaza and brew applications development platform, our mediaflo mds, mediaflo technology and flo tv service offering and our imod display technology. certain of these new products, services and technologies face significant competition, and we cannot assure you that the revenues generated from these products or the timing of the deployment of these products or technologies, which may be dependent on the actions of others, will meet our expectations. we cannot be certain that we will make the additional advances in development that may be essential to commercialize our imod technology successfully. the market for our wireless products, services and technologies is characterized by many factors, including: rapid technological advances and evolving industry standards; changes in customer requirements and consumer expectations and preferences; frequent introductions of new products and enhancements; evolving methods for transmission of wireless voice and data communications; and intense competition from companies with greater resources, customer relationships and distribution capabilities. our future success will depend on our ability to continue to develop and introduce new products, services, technologies and enhancements on a timely basis. our future success will also depend on our ability to keep pace with technological developments, protect our intellectual property, satisfy customer requirements, meet consumer expectations, price our products and services competitively and achieve market acceptance. the introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products and technologies, and products and technologies currently under development, obsolete and unmarketable. if we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments or customer requirements, or experience any significant delays in development, introduction or shipment of our products and technologies in commercial quantities, demand for our products and our customers and licensees products that use our technologies could decrease, and our competitive position could be damaged. changes in assumptions used to estimate the values of share-based compensation have a significant effect on our reported results. we are required to estimate and record compensation expense in the statement of operations for share-based payments, such as employee stock options, using the fair value method. this method has a significant effect on our reported earnings, although it will not affect our cash flows, and could adversely impact our ability to provide accurate guidance on our future reported financial results due to the variability of the factors used to estimate the values of share-based payments. if factors change and/or we employ different assumptions or different valuation methods in future periods, the compensation expense that we record may differ significantly from amounts recorded previously, which could negatively affect our stock price and our stock price volatility. there are significant differences among valuation models, and there is a possibility that we will adopt different valuation models in the future. this may result in a lack of consistency in future periods and materially affect the fair value estimate of share-based payments. it may also result in a lack of comparability with other companies that use different models, methods and assumptions. theoretical valuation models and market-based methods are evolving and may result in lower or higher fair value estimates for share-based compensation. the timing, readiness, adoption, general acceptance, reliability and testing of these methods is uncertain. sophisticated mathematical models may require voluminous historical information, modeling expertise, financial analyses, correlation analyses, integrated software and databases, consulting fees, customization and testing for adequacy of internal controls. market-based methods are emerging that, if employed by us, may dilute our earnings per share and involve significant transaction fees and ongoing administrative expenses. the uncertainties and costs of these extensive valuation efforts may outweigh the benefits to our investors. potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. although we believe our tax estimates are 30 table of contents reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. in such case, a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods in which that determination is made could result. in addition, tax rules may change that may adversely affect our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. for example, we consider the operating earnings of certain non-united states subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the united states based on estimates that future domestic cash generation will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs. no provision has been made for united states federal and state or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. our future reported financial results may be adversely affected if accounting rules regarding unrepatriated earnings change, if domestic cash needs require us to repatriate foreign earnings, or if the united states international tax rules change as part of comprehensive tax reform or other tax legislation. the high amount of capital required to obtain radio frequency licenses, deploy and expand wireless networks and obtain new subscribers could slow the growth of the wireless communications industry and adversely affect our business. our growth is dependent upon the increased use of wireless communications services that utilize our technology. in order to provide wireless communications services, wireless operators must obtain rights to use specific radio frequencies. the allocation of frequencies is regulated in the united states and other countries throughout the world, and limited spectrum space is allocated to wireless communications services. industry growth may be affected by the amount of capital required to: obtain licenses to use new frequencies; deploy wireless networks to offer voice and data services; expand wireless networks to grow voice and data services; and obtain new subscribers. the significant cost of licenses, wireless networks and subscriber additions may slow the growth of the industry if wireless operators are unable to obtain or service the additional capital necessary to implement or expand 3g wireless networks. our growth could be adversely affected if this occurs. if wireless devices pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers may decrease. concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions, even if unfounded, may have the effect of discouraging the use of wireless devices, which may decrease demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers. in recent years, the fcc and foreign regulatory agencies have updated the guidelines and methods they use for evaluating radio frequency emissions from radio equipment, including wireless phones and other wireless devices. in addition, interest groups have requested that the fcc investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and medical devices. concerns have also been expressed over the possibility of safety risks due to a lack of attention associated with the use of wireless devices while driving. any legislation that may be adopted in response to these expressions of concern could reduce demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers in the united states as well as foreign countries. our qes and flo tv businesses depend on the availability of satellite and other networks. our satellite-based mobile fleet management and trailer tracking services are provided using leased kurtz-under band (ku-band) satellite transponders in the united states, mexico and europe. our primary data satellite transponder and position reporting satellite transponder lease for the system in the united states runs through september 2012 and includes transponder and satellite protection (back-up capacity in the event of a transponder or satellite failure). the transponder lease for the system in mexico runs through april 2010 and has transponder and satellite protection. we are currently negotiating to extend the lease in mexico. our agreement with a third party to provide network management and satellite space (including procuring satellite space) in europe expires in february 2013. we believe our agreements will provide sufficient transponder capacity for our satellite-based operations through the expiration dates. a failure to maintain adequate satellite capacity could harm our business, operating results, liquidity and financial position. qes terrestrial-based products rely on wireless terrestrial communication networks operated by third parties. the unavailability or nonperformance of these network systems could harm our business. our flo tv network and systems currently operate in the united states market on a leased ku-band satellite transponder. our primary program content and data distribution satellite transponder lease runs through december 2012 and includes transponder and satellite protection (back-up capacity in the event of a transponder or satellite failure), which we believe will provide sufficient transponder capacity for our united states flo tv service through fiscal 2012. additionally, our flo tv transmitter sites are monitored and controlled by a variety of terrestrial-based data circuits relying on various terrestrial and satellite communication networks operated by third 31 table of contents parties. a failure to maintain adequate satellite capacity or the unavailability or nonperformance of the terrestrial-based network systems could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology networking systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations or in our vendors , customers or licensees operations could result in a material disruption to our business. to the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our customers data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. in addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. data transmissions for qes operations are formatted and processed at the network management and data center in san diego, california, with a redundant backup network management and data center located in las vegas, nevada. content from third parties for flo tv operations is received, processed and retransmitted at the broadcast operations center in san diego, california. certain plaza and brew products and services provided by our qis operations are hosted at the network operations center in san diego, california with a fully redundant backup network operations center located in las vegas, nevada. the centers, operated by us, are subject to system failures, which could interrupt the services and have an adverse effect on our operating results. from time to time, we install new or upgraded business management systems. to the extent such systems fail or are not properly implemented, we may experience material disruptions to our business, delays in our external financial reporting or failures in our system of internal controls, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. noncompliance with environmental or safety regulations could cause us to incur significant expenses and harm our business. as part of the development and commercialization of our imod display technology, we are operating both a development and a production fabrication facility. the development and commercialization of imod display prototypes is a complex and precise process involving hazardous materials subject to environmental and safety regulations. our failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental and safety regulations could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines and/or the suspension or termination of development and production activities. our stock repurchase program may not result in a positive return of capital to stockholders and may expose us to counterparty risk. at september 27, 2009, we had authority to repurchase up to $1.7 billion of our common stock. our stock repurchases may not return value to stockholders because the market price of the stock may decline significantly below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock. our stock repurchase program is intended to deliver stockholder value over the long-term, but stock price fluctuations can reduce the program effectiveness. as part of our stock repurchase program, we may sell put options or engage in structured derivative transactions to reduce the cost of repurchasing stock. in the event of a significant and unexpected drop in stock price, these arrangements may require us to repurchase stock at price levels that are significantly above the then-prevailing market price of our stock. such overpayments may have an adverse effect on the effectiveness of our overall stock repurchase program and may reduce value for our stockholders. in the event of financial insolvency or distress of a counterparty to our put options, structured derivative transactions or 10b5-1 stock repurchase plan, we may be unable to settle transactions. we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. we intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders. future dividends may be affected by, among other items, our views on potential future capital requirements, including those related to research and development, creation and expansion of sales distribution channels and investments and acquisitions, legal risks, stock repurchase programs, changes in federal and state income tax law and changes to our business model. our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. a reduction in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price. 32 table of contents government regulation and policies of industry standards bodies may adversely affect our business. our products and services and those of our customers and licensees are subject to various regulations, including fcc regulations in the united states and other international regulations, as well as the specifications of national, regional and international standards bodies. changes in the regulation of our activities, including changes in the allocation of available spectrum by the united states government and other governments or exclusion or limitation of our technology or products by a government or standards body, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, liquidity and financial position. we hold licenses in the united states from the fcc for the spectrum referred to as block d in the lower 700 mhz band (also known as tv channel 55) covering the entire nation and spectrum referred to as block e in the lower 700 mhz band (also known as tv channel 56) covering five economic areas on the east and west coasts for use in our flo tv business. in addition, we hold licenses for the spectrum referred to as b block in the lower 700 mhz band for use initially in our various research and development initiatives. in using the licensed spectrum, we are regulated by the fcc pursuant to the terms of our licenses and the federal communications act of 1934, as amended, and pursuant to part 27 of the fcc rules, which are subject to a variety of ongoing fcc proceedings. it is impossible to predict with certainty the outcome of pending fcc or other federal or state regulatory proceedings relating to our flo tv service or our use of the spectrum for which we hold licenses. unless we are able to obtain relief, existing laws and regulations may inhibit our ability to expand our business and to introduce new products and services. in addition, the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to the existing regulatory framework could adversely affect our business plans. we hold licenses in the united kingdom from the office of communications (ofcom) to use 40 mhz of spectrum in the so-called l-band (1452 mhz to 1492 mhz). these licenses give us the right to use this spectrum throughout the entire united kingdom. in using this spectrum, we are regulated by ofcom pursuant to the terms of our license and the united kingdom wireless technology act of 2006. the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to the existing regulatory framework could adversely affect our business plans. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our board members, executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. in addition, implementing our product and business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, and our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. the market for such specialized engineering and other talented employees in our industry is extremely competitive. in addition, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of u.s. universities, making the pool of available talent even smaller. key employees represent a significant asset, and the competition for these employees is intense in the wireless communications industry. in the event of a labor shortage, or in the event of an unfavorable change in prevailing labor and/or immigration laws, we could experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified employees. we continue to anticipate increases in human resource needs, particularly in engineering. if we are unable to attract and retain the qualified employees that we need, our business may be harmed. we may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel in periods of poor operating performance given the significant use of incentive compensation by our competitors. we do not have employment agreements with our key management personnel and do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our personnel. to the extent that new regulations make it less attractive to grant share-based awards to employees or if stockholders do not authorize shares for the continuation of equity compensation programs in the future, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time. we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. complying with evolving interpretations of new or changed legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and procedures, and may divert management time and attention from revenue generating to compliance activities. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation might also be harmed. further, 33 table of contents our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. our charter documents and delaware law could limit transactions in which stockholders might obtain a premium over current market prices. our certificate of incorporation includes a provision that requires the approval of holders of at least 66 2/3% of our voting stock as a condition to certain mergers or other business transactions with, or proposed by, a holder of 15% or more of our voting stock. under our charter documents, stockholders are not permitted to call special meetings of our stockholders or to act by written consent. these charter provisions may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change in our control, including those offering stockholders a premium over current market prices. these provisions may also limit our stockholders ability to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. further, our board of directors has the authority under delaware law to fix the rights and preferences of and issue shares of preferred stock, and our preferred share purchase rights agreement will cause substantial dilution to the ownership of a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors. while our board of directors approved our preferred share purchase rights agreement to provide the board with greater ability to maximize shareholder value, these rights could deter takeover attempts that the board finds inadequate and make it more difficult to bring about a change in our ownership. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk credit market risk. since september 2007, there has been a prolonged disruption in global financial markets that has led to a major crisis in debt and equity capital markets and a global economic recession. this period of economic weakness has impacted the value of most types of investment- and non-investment-grade bonds and debt obligations and mortgage- and asset-backed securities. at september 27, 2009, we held a significant portion of our corporate cash in diversified portfolios of fixed- and floating-rate, investment-grade marketable securities, mortgage- and asset-backed securities, non-investment-grade bank loans and bonds, preferred stocks and other securities that have been affected by these credit market concerns and had temporary gross unrealized losses of $39 million. although we consider these unrealized losses to be temporary, there is a risk that we may incur net other-than-temporary impairment charges or realized losses on the values of these and other similarly affected securities if u.s. credit and equity markets do not stabilize and recover to previous levels in the coming quarters. interest rate risk. we invest our cash in a number of diversified investment- and non-investment-grade fixed and floating rate securities, consisting of cash equivalents, marketable debt securities and debt mutual funds. we deposit our cash primarily with one major institution. changes in the general level of united states interest rates can affect the principal values and yields of fixed interest-bearing securities. if interest rates in the general economy were to rise rapidly in a short period of time, our fixed interest-bearing securities could lose value. as interest rates in the general economy have dropped significantly over the past several months, our floating interest-bearing securities are earning less interest income. when the general economy weakens significantly, as it has recently, the credit profile, financial strength and growth prospects of certain issuers of interest-bearing securities held in our investment portfolios may deteriorate, and our interest-bearing securities may lose value either temporarily or other than temporarily. we may implement investment strategies of different types with varying duration and risk/return trade-offs that do not perform well. the following table provides information about our interest-bearing securities that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. the table presents principal cash flows, weighted-average yield at cost and contractual maturity dates. additionally, we have assumed that these securities are similar enough within the specified categories to aggregate these securities for presentation purposes. 56 table of contents interest rate sensitivity principal amount by expected maturity average interest rates (dollars in millions) no single 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter maturity total fixed interest-bearing securities: cash and cash equivalents $ 470 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 470 interest rate 0.4 % available-for-sale securities: investment grade $ 1,481 $ 1,195 $ 673 $ 235 $ 669 $ 250 $ 2,600 $ 7,103 interest rate 2.0 % 2.9 % 3.6 % 4.7 % 4.6 % 6.8 % 2.7 % non-investment grade $ 15 $ 27 $ 30 $ 88 $ 133 $ 713 $ 29 $ 1,035 interest rate 9.2 % 12.7 % 11.0 % 10.5 % 10.2 % 10.8 % 0.7 % floating interest-bearing securities: cash and cash equivalents $ 2,004 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2,004 interest rate 0.2 % available-for-sale securities: investment grade $ 794 $ 742 $ 227 $ 14 $ $ 321 $ 619 $ 2,717 interest rate 1.2 % 1.1 % 0.9 % 0.4 % 8.6 % 3.7 % non-investment grade $ 6 $ 12 $ 79 $ 204 $ 348 $ 162 $ 894 $ 1,705 interest rate 26.6 % 7.6 % 6.8 % 6.8 % 7.2 % 9.1 % 4.2 % cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value. equity price risk. the prolonged disruption in global financial markets has caused increased volatility in the fair values of our equity securities and equity mutual and exchange-traded fund shares. we have a diversified marketable securities portfolio that includes equities held by mutual and exchange-traded fund shares that are subject to equity price risk. we have made investments in marketable equity securities of companies of varying size, style, industry and geography, and changes in investment allocations may affect the price volatility of our investments. a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual fund and exchange-traded fund shares at september 27, 2009 would cause a decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities of $247 million. at september 27, 2009, gross unrealized losses of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual and exchange-traded fund shares were approximately $157 million. foreign exchange risk. we manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial counterparties. such derivative financial instruments are viewed as hedging or risk management tools and are not used for speculative or trading purposes. at september 27, 2009, we had a net liability of $28 million related to foreign currency option contracts that were designated as hedges of foreign currency risk on royalties earned from certain international licensees on their sales of cdma and wcdma products. counterparties to our derivative contracts are all major institutions. in the event of the financial insolvency or distress of a counterparty to our derivative financial instruments, we may be unable to settle transactions, which could materially impact our results. if our forecasted royalty revenues were to decline by 20% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in each of our hedged foreign currencies, we would incur a loss of approximately $19 million resulting from a decrease in the fair value of the portion of our hedges that would be rendered ineffective. see notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1 the company and its significant accounting policies for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies. financial instruments held by consolidated subsidiaries that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. as a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. as a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. while we may hedge certain transactions with non-united states customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. 57 table of contents our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate the risks discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks.risk factors 14 risk factors you should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this annual report in evaluating our business and our prospects. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. you should also refer to the other information set forth in this annual report, including our financial statements and the related notes. 14 table of contents risks related to our businesses our revenues are dependent on the commercial deployment of our cdma- and ofdma-based technologies and upgrades of 3g and 3g/4g multimode wireless communications equipment, products and services based on our technologies. we develop, patent and commercialize cdma- and ofdma-based technologies. our revenues are dependent upon the commercial deployment of our technologies and upgrades of 3g and 3g/4g multimode wireless communications equipment, products and services based on our technologies. our business may be harmed, and our investments in these technologies may not provide us an adequate return if: wireless operators delay 3g and/or 3g/4g multimode deployments, expansions or upgrades; lte, an ofdma-based wireless standard, is not widely deployed or commercial deployment is delayed; or wireless operators deploy other technologies. our business is dependent on our ability to increase our market share and to continue to drive the adoption of our products and services into 3g, 3g/4g multimode and 4g wireless device markets. we are also dependent on the success of our customers, licensees and cdma- and ofdma-based wireless operators, as well as the timing of their deployment of new services. our licensees and cdma- or ofdma-based wireless operators may incur lower gross margins on products or services based on our technologies than on products using alternative technologies as a result of greater competition or other factors. if commercial deployment of our technologies and upgrades to 3g, 3g/4g multimode or 4g wireless communications equipment, products and services based on our technologies do not continue or are delayed, our revenues could be negatively impacted, and our business could suffer. our revenues can be impacted by the deployment of other technologies in place of cdma- and/or ofdma-based technologies or by the need to extend certain existing license agreements to cover additional later patents. although we own a very strong portfolio of issued and pending patents related to gsm, gprs, edge, ofdm, ofdma and/or multiple input, multiple output (mimo) technologies, our patent portfolio licensing program in these areas is less established and might not be as successful in generating licensing income as our cdma portfolio licensing program. many wireless operators are investigating or have selected lte (or to a lesser extent wimax) as next-generation technologies for deployment in existing or future spectrum bands as complementary to their existing cdma-based networks. although we believe that our patented technology is essential and useful to implementation of the lte and wimax industry standards and have granted royalty-bearing licenses to nine companies to make and sell products implementing those standards but not implementing 3g standards, we might not achieve the same royalty revenues on such lte or wimax products as on cdma-based or multimode cdma/ofdma-based products. the licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date and, in a small number of agreements, royalties are payable on those patents for a specified time period. as a result, there are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us under our license agreements. in order to license any such later patents, we will need to extend or modify our license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees. we might not be able to modify such license agreements in the future to license any such later patents or extend such date(s) to incorporate later patents without affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees, and such modifications may impact our revenues. global economic conditions that impact the wireless communications industry could negatively affect the demand for our products and our customers products, which may negatively affect our revenues. despite the recent improvements in market conditions, a future decline in global economic conditions, particularly in geographic regions with high customer concentrations, could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products of our customers, particularly wireless communications equipment manufacturers or others in the wireless industry, such as wireless operators. other unexpected negative events may have adverse effects on the economy, on demand for wireless device products or on wireless device inventories at equipment manufacturers and wireless operators. in addition, our direct and indirect customers ability to purchase or pay for our products and services, obtain financing and upgrade wireless networks could be adversely affected by economic conditions, leading to cancellation or delay of orders for our products. our industry is subject to competition in an environment of rapid technological change that could result in decreased demand for our products and the products of our customers and licensees, declining average selling 15 table of contents prices for our licensees products and our products and/or new specifications or requirements placed upon our products, each of which could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. our industry is subject to rapid technological change, and we must make substantial investments in new products, services and technologies to compete successfully. new technological innovations generally require a substantial investment before they are commercially viable. we intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing new products and technologies, and it is possible that our development efforts will not be successful and that our new technologies will not result in meaningful revenues. our products, services and technologies face significant competition, and we cannot assure you that the revenues generated or the timing of their deployment, which may be dependent on the actions of others, will meet our expectations. competition in the telecommunications market is affected by various factors that include, among others: evolving industry standards, evolving methods of transmission for wireless voice and data communications; value-added features that drive replacement rates and selling prices; scalability and the ability of the system technology to meet customers immediate and future network requirements. our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to: continue to keep pace with technological developments; drive adoption of our integrated circuit products across a broad spectrum of wireless devices sold by our customers and licensees; develop and introduce new products, services, technologies and enhancements on a timely basis; effectively develop and commercialize turnkey, integrated product offerings that incorporate our integrated circuits, software, user interface and applications; become a preferred partner for operating system platforms, such as android and windows mobile; focus our services businesses on key platforms that create standalone value or contribute to the success of our other businesses; and succeed in significant foreign markets, such as china, india and europe. companies that promote non-cdma technologies (e.g., gsm, wimax) and companies that design cdma-based integrated circuits are generally competitors or potential competitors. examples (some of whom are strategic partners of ours in other areas) include broadcom, freescale, fujitsu, icera, infineon, intel, marvell technology, mediatek, nvidia, renesas electronics, st-ericsson (a joint venture between ericsson mobile platforms and st-nxp wireless), texas instruments and via telecom. many of these current and potential competitors have advantages over us that include, among others: motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to find alternate suppliers; government support of other technologies; and more extensive relationships with indigenous distribution and original equipment manufacturer (oem) companies in developing territories (e.g., china). in addition to the foregoing, we have seen, and believe we will continue to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including chipsets and associated software, that will incorporate open source software elements and operate in an open source environment, which may offer accessibility to a portion of a product source code and may expose related intellectual property to adverse licensing conditions. developing open source products, with regard to adequately protecting the intellectual property rights upon which our licensing business depends, may prove burdensome under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage for new product designs. competition may reduce average selling prices for our chipset products and the products of our customers and licensees. reductions in the average selling prices of our licensees products, unless offset by an increase in volumes, generally result in reduced royalties payable to us. we anticipate that additional competitors will enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in wireless telecommunications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in selected segments of the industry. we derive a significant portion of our consolidated revenues from a small number of customers and licensees. if revenues derived from these customers or licensees decrease, our operating results could be negatively affected. our qct segment derives a significant portion of revenues from a small number of customers. the loss of any one of our qct segment significant customers or the delay, even if only temporary, or cancellation of significant orders from any of these customers would reduce our revenues in the period of the deferral or cancellation and harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected levels of operating results. accordingly, unless and until our qct segment 16 table of contents diversifies and expands its customer base, our future success will largely depend upon the timing and size of any future purchase orders from these customers. although we have more than 185 licensees, our qtl segment derives a significant portion of royalty revenues from a limited number of licensees. our future success depends upon the ability of our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver high-volume products that achieve and sustain market acceptance. we have little or no control over the sales efforts of our licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. reductions in the average selling price of wireless communications devices sold by our major licensees, without a sufficient increase in the volumes of such devices sold, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. efforts by some telecommunications equipment manufacturers to avoid paying fair and reasonable royalties for the use of our intellectual property may create uncertainty about our future business prospects, may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources, and may result in legal decisions and/or actions by foreign governments, standards development organizations (sdos) or other industry groups that harm our business. a small number of companies have initiated various strategies in an attempt to renegotiate, mitigate and/or eliminate their need to pay royalties to us for the use of our intellectual property in order to negatively affect our business model and that of our other licensees. these strategies have included (i) litigation, often alleging infringement of patents held by such companies, patent misuse, patent exhaustion and patent and license unenforceability, or some form of unfair competition, (ii) taking positions contrary to our understanding of their contracts with us, (iii) appeals to governmental authorities, (iv) collective action, including working with carriers, standards bodies, other like-minded companies and other organizations, on both formal and informal bases, to adopt intellectual property policies and practices that could have the effect of limiting returns on intellectual property innovations, and (v) lobbying with governmental regulators and elected officials for the purpose of seeking the imposition of some form of compulsory licensing and/or to weaken a patent holder ability to enforce its rights or obtain a fair return for such rights. some companies have proposed significant changes to existing intellectual property policies for implementation by sdos and other industry organizations, some of which would require a maximum aggregate intellectual property royalty rate for the use of all essential patents owned by all of the member companies to be applied to the selling price of any product implementing the relevant standard. they have further proposed that such maximum aggregate royalty rate be apportioned to each member company with essential patents based upon the number of essential patents held by such company. a number of these strategies are purportedly based on interpretations of the policies of certain standards development organizations concerning the licensing of patents that are or may be essential to industry standards and our alleged failure to abide by these policies. there is a risk that relevant courts or governmental agencies will interpret those policies in a manner adverse to our interests. if such proposals and strategies are successful in the future, our business model would be harmed, either by artificially limiting our return on investment with respect to new technologies or forcing us to work outside of the sdos or such other industry groups to promote our new technologies, and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. as well, the legal and other costs associated with defending our position have been and continue to be significant. we assume that such challenges regardless of their merits will continue into the foreseeable future and may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources to explain and defend our position. the enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive, could fail to prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary intellectual property rights or could result in the loss of our ability to enforce one or more patents. we rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes, including our patent portfolio. policing unauthorized use of our products and technologies is difficult and time consuming. we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken, or may take in the future, will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary intellectual property rights as fully or as readily as united states laws. we cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country, including the united states, or the practices of any of the standards bodies, foreign or domestic, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing, issuance of spectrum licenses or the adoption of standards, will not be changed in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. we may have difficulty in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights and/or contracts in a particular foreign jurisdiction, including: challenges to our licensing practices under such jurisdictions competition laws; adoption of mandatory licensing provisions by foreign jurisdictions (either with controlled/regulated royalties or royalty free); and challenges pending before 17 table of contents foreign competition agencies to the pricing and integration of additional features and functionality into our wireless chipset products. a substantial portion of our patents and patent applications relate to our wireless communications technology and much of the remainder of our patents and patent applications relate to our other technologies and products. we may need to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. as a result of any such litigation, we could lose our ability to enforce one or more patents or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. any action we take to enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property or that patents on which we rely are invalid could adversely affect our business. from time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights against our products or products using our technologies or other technologies used in our industry. these claims have resulted and may again result in our involvement in litigation. we may not prevail in such litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if any of our products were found to infringe on another company intellectual property rights, we could be subject to an injunction or required to redesign our products, which could be costly, or to license such rights and/or pay damages or other compensation to such other company. if we were unable to redesign our products, license such intellectual property rights used in our products or otherwise distribute our products through a licensed supplier, we could be prohibited from making and selling such products. in any potential dispute involving other companies patents or other intellectual property, our chipset foundries and customers could also become the targets of litigation. we are contingently liable under certain product sales, services, license and other agreements to indemnify certain customers against certain types of liability and/or damages arising from qualifying claims of patent infringement by products or services sold or provided by us. reimbursements under indemnification arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. furthermore, any such litigation could severely disrupt the supply of our products and the business of our chipset customers and their wireless operator customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with our chipset customers and wireless operators and could result in a decline in our chipset sales and/or a reduction in our licensees sales to wireless operators, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. any claims, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming to address, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our operating results. we expect that we will continue to be involved in litigation and may have to appear in front of administrative bodies (such as the u.s. international trade commission) to defend against patent assertions against our products by companies, some of whom are attempting to gain competitive advantage or leverage in licensing negotiations. we may not be successful in such proceedings, and if we are not, the range of possible outcomes includes everything from a royalty payment to an injunction on the sale of certain of our chipsets (and on the sale of our customers devices using our chipsets) and the imposition of royalty payments that might make purchases of our chipsets less economical for our customers. a negative outcome in any such proceeding could severely disrupt the business of our chipset customers and their wireless operator customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with our chipset customers and wireless operators and could result in a decline in our share of worldwide chipset sales and/or a reduction in our licensees sales to wireless operators, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. a number of other companies have claimed to own patents essential to various cdma standards, gsm standards and ofdma standards or implementations of ofdm and ofdma systems. if we or other product manufacturers are required to obtain additional licenses and/or pay royalties to one or more patent holders, this could have a material adverse effect on the commercial implementation of our cdma, gsm, ofdma or multimode products and technologies, demand for our licensees products and our profitability. other companies or entities also have commenced, and may again commence, actions seeking to establish the invalidity of our patents. in the event that one or more of our patents are challenged, a court may invalidate the patent(s) or determine that the patent(s) is not enforceable, which could harm our competitive position. if our key patents are invalidated, or if the scope of the claims in any of these patents is limited by court decision, we could be prevented from licensing the invalidated or limited portion of such patents. such adverse decisions could negatively impact our revenues. even if such a patent challenge is not successful, it could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. 18 table of contents our earnings and stock price are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market downturns. the stock market in general, and the stock prices of technology-based and wireless communications companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company. the market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future as well. factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock include, among others: announcements concerning us or our competitors, including the selection of wireless communications technology by wireless operators and the timing of the roll-out of those systems; international developments, such as technology mandates, political developments or changes in economic policies; changes in recommendations of securities analysts; proprietary rights or product or patent litigation against us or against our customers or licensees; strategic transactions, such as spin-offs, acquisitions and divestitures; unexpected and/or significant changes in the average selling price of our licensees products and our products; unresolved disputes with licensees that result in non-payment and/or non-recognition of royalty revenues that may be owed to us; or rumors or allegations regarding our financial disclosures or practices. in the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. due to changes in the potential volatility of our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. securities litigation could result in substantial uninsured costs and divert management attention and resources. any prolonged financial or economic crisis may result in a downturn in demand for our products or technology; the insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; delays in reporting and/or payments from our licensees and/or customers; and counterparty failures negatively impacting our treasury operations. financial market volatility has impacted, and could continue to impact, the value and performance of our marketable securities. net investment income could vary depending on the gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities, impairment charges related to marketable securities and other investments, changes in interest rates and changes in fair values of derivative instruments. our cash equivalent and marketable securities investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements and financial market conditions in fixed income and equity securities. these factors affecting our future earnings are difficult to forecast and could harm our quarterly and/or annual operating results. if our earnings fail to meet the financial guidance we provide to investors, or the expectations of investment analysts or investors in any period, securities class action litigation could be brought against us and/or the market price of our common stock could decline. we depend upon a limited number of third-party suppliers to manufacture and test component parts, subassemblies and finished goods for our products. if these third-party suppliers do not allocate adequate manufacturing and test capacity in their facilities to produce products on our behalf, or if there are any disruptions in the operations of, or a loss of, any of these third parties, it could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers, reduce our revenues, increase our cost of sales and harm our business. our ability to meet customer demand depends, in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of parts and components from our suppliers. a reduction or interruption in our product supply source, an inability of our suppliers to react to shifts in product demand or an increase in component prices could have a material adverse effect on our business or profitability. the loss of a significant supplier or the inability of a supplier to meet performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers and negatively impact our revenues and business operations. in the event of a loss of, or a decision to change, a supplier, qualifying a new foundry supplier and commencing volume production or testing could involve delay and expense, resulting in possible loss of customers. while our goal is to establish alternate suppliers for technologies that we consider critical, we rely on sole- or limited-source suppliers for some products, subjecting us to significant risks, including: possible shortages of manufacturing capacity; poor product performance; and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing 19 table of contents capability and yields, quality assurance, quantity and costs. our arrangements with our suppliers may oblige us to incur costs to manufacture and test our products that do not decrease at the same rate as decreases in pricing to our customers. qct segment. although we have entered into long-term contracts with our suppliers, most of these contracts do not provide for long-term capacity commitments, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order that has been accepted by our supplier. to the extent that we do not have firm commitments from our suppliers over a specific time period, or for any specific quantity, our suppliers may allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production and testing of products for their other customers while reducing capacity to manufacture or test our products. accordingly, capacity for our products may not be available when we need it or available at reasonable prices. we have experienced capacity limitations from our suppliers, which resulted in supply constraints and our inability to meet certain customer demand. there can be no assurance that we will not experience these or other supply constraints in the future, which could result in our failure to meet customer demand. in addition, the timely readiness of our foundry suppliers to support transitions to smaller geometry process technologies could impact our ability to meet customer demand, revenues and cost expectations. the timing of acceptance of the smaller technology designs by our customers may subject us to the risk of excess inventories of earlier designs. qmt division. our qmt division needs to form and maintain reliable business relationships with component supply partners to support the manufacture of interferometric modulator (imod) displays and/or modules in commercial volumes. all of our current relationships have been for the development and limited production of certain imod display panels and/or modules. some or all of these relationships may not succeed or, even if they are successful, may not result in the component supply partners entering into material supply relationships with us. our suppliers may also be our competitors, putting us at a disadvantage for pricing and capacity allocation. one or more of our suppliers may obtain licenses from us to manufacture cdma-based integrated circuits that compete with our products. in this event, the supplier could elect to allocate raw materials and manufacturing capacity to their own products and reduce deliveries to us to our detriment. in addition, we may not receive reasonable pricing, manufacturing or delivery terms. we cannot guarantee that the actions of our suppliers will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost of sales. currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues, harm our ability to collect receivables or increase the u.s. dollar cost of the activities of our foreign subsidiaries and international strategic investments. our international customers sell their products to markets throughout the world, including china, india, japan, south korea, north america, south america and europe. consolidated revenues from international customers as a percentage of total revenues were greater than 90% in both fiscal 2010 and 2009. we are exposed to risk from fluctuations in currencies that could negatively affect our operating results. adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business due to a number of situations, including the following, among others: our products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold into foreign markets may become less price-competitive as a result of adverse currency fluctuations; certain of our revenues, such as royalty revenues, are derived from licensee or customer sales that are denominated in foreign currencies. weakening of currency values in selected regions could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows; we may engage in foreign exchange hedging transactions that could affect our cash flows and earnings because they may require the payment of structuring fees, limit the u.s. dollar value of royalties from licensees sales that are denominated in foreign currencies, cause earnings volatility if the hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting and expose us to counterparty risk if the counterparty fails to perform; our loan payable to banks is denominated in indian rupees. if the u.s. dollar significantly weakens, additional cash may be required to settle this obligation and the related interest; and currency exchange rate fluctuations may reduce the u.s. dollar value of our marketable securities that are denominated directly or indirectly in foreign currencies. 20 table of contents we may engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make investments that could result in significant changes or management disruption and fail to enhance stockholder value. from time to time, we engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make investments with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. we acquire businesses and other assets, including spectrum licenses, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase equity and debt securities, including minority interests in publicly-traded and private companies. many of our strategic investments are in early-stage companies to support our business, including the global adoption of cdma- or ofdma-based technologies and related services. most of our acquisitions or strategic investments entail a high degree of risk and will not become liquid until more than one year from the date of investment, if at all. our acquisitions or strategic investments (either those we have completed or may undertake in the future) may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies. in some cases, we may be required to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of companies in which we have acquired ownership interests. our share of any losses will adversely affect our financial results until we exit from or reduce our exposure to these investments. achieving the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions depends in part upon our ability to integrate the acquired businesses in an efficient and effective manner. the integration of companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, and we may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. the difficulties of integrating companies include, among others: retaining key employees; maintaining important relationships of qualcomm and the acquired business; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business matters; coordinating geographically separate organizations; consolidating research and development operations; and consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. we cannot assure you that the integration of acquired businesses with our business will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated by us to result from the acquisitions. we may not derive any commercial value from acquired technology, products and intellectual property or from future technologies and products based on the acquired technology and/or intellectual property, and we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by indemnification protection we may obtain. defects or errors in our products and services or in the products of our customers could harm our business. if we experience product liability claims or recalls, we may incur significant expenses and experience decreased demand for our products. our products are inherently complex and may contain defects and errors that are detected only when the products are in use. for example, as our chipset product complexities increase, we are required to migrate to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes. the design process interface issues are more complex as we enter into these new domains of technology, which adds risk to yields and reliability. because our products and services are responsible for critical functions in our customers products and/or networks, such defects or errors could have an adverse impact on our customers, which could damage our reputation, harm our customer relationships and expose us to liability. defects or impurities in our components, materials or software or those used by our customers or licensees, equipment failures or other difficulties could adversely affect our ability, and that of our customers and licensees, to ship products on a timely basis, customer or licensee demand for our products or the commitment of financial and/or engineering resources that could affect future product release schedules. additionally, a defect or failure in our products or the products of our customers or licensees could harm our reputation and/or adversely affect the growth of 3g and 3g/4g multimode wireless markets. manufacturing, testing, marketing and use of our products and those of our licensees and customers entail the risk of product liability. the use of wireless devices containing our products to access untrusted content creates a risk of exposing the system software in those devices to viral or malicious attacks. we continue to expand our focus on this issue and take measures to safeguard the software from this threat. however, this issue carries the risk of general product liability claims along with the associated impacts on reputation and demand. in addition, a product liability claim or recall, whether against our licensees, customers or us, could harm our reputation and result in decreased demand for our products. our firethorn and flo tv businesses do not currently generate operating income and may not succeed or their operating results may not meet our expectations. if our firethorn and/or flo tv businesses do not succeed, our investments in their technologies may not provide us an adequate return, and our business could be harmed. consumer acceptance of our firethorn service offerings will continue to be affected by competition, technology-based differences and by the operational performance, quality and reliability of our services platforms. our flo tv business had $1.3 billion in assets (including $746 million in spectrum licenses used by our flo tv subsidiary) at september 26, 2010. we have commenced a restructuring plan 21 table of contents under which we expect to exit the current flo tv service business. in addition to our ongoing operating costs, we expect to incur restructuring charges related to this plan in the range of $125 million to $175 million in fiscal 2011, which are primarily related to certain contractual obligations. additionally, we continue to evaluate strategic options for the flo tv business, which include, but are not limited to, operating the flo tv network under a new wholesale service; sale to, or joint venture with, a third party; and/or the sale of the spectrum licenses and the discontinuance of the operation of the network. additional charges, including impairment of assets, may be incurred as we continue to evaluate or implement these strategic options or if we are unable to generate adequate future cash flows associated with this business. our qmt division business does not currently generate operating income and may not succeed or its operating results may not meet our expectations. while we continue to believe our qmt division imod displays will offer compelling advantages to users of displays, there can be no assurance that our imod product development efforts will be successful, that we will be able to cost-effectively manufacture these new products, that we will be able to successfully market these products or that other technologies will not continue to improve in ways that reduce the advantages we anticipate from our imod displays. sales of flat panel displays are currently, and we believe will likely continue to be, dominated by displays based on liquid crystal display (lcd) technology for some time. numerous companies are making substantial investments in, and conducting research to improve characteristics of, lcds. additionally, several other flat panel display technologies have been, or are being, developed, including technologies for the production of organic light-emitting diode (oled), field emission, inorganic electroluminescence, gas plasma and vacuum fluorescent displays. in each case, advances in lcd or other flat panel display technologies could result in technologies that are more cost effective, have fewer display limitations or can be brought to market faster than our imod technology. these advances in competing technologies might cause device manufacturers to avoid entering into commercial relationships with us or to not renew planned or existing relationships with us. our qmt division had $384 million in assets (including $128 million in goodwill) at september 26, 2010. if we do not achieve adequate market penetration with our imod display technology, our assets may become impaired, which could negatively impact our operating results. potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could materially differ from amounts reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. in such case, our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods in which that determination is made could be negatively affected. in addition, tax rules may change that may adversely affect our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. for example, we consider the operating earnings of certain non-united states subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the united states based on estimates that future domestic cash generation will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs. no provision has been made for united states federal and state or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. our future financial results and liquidity may be adversely affected if accounting rules regarding unrepatriated earnings change, if domestic cash needs require us to repatriate foreign earnings, or if the united states international tax rules change as part of comprehensive tax reform or other tax legislation. if wireless devices pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers may decrease. concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions may have the effect of discouraging the use of wireless devices, which may decrease demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers. interest groups have requested that the fcc investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and medical devices. concerns have also been expressed over the possibility of safety risks due to a lack of attention associated with the use of wireless devices while driving. any legislation that may be adopted in response to these concerns could reduce demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers in the united states as well as foreign countries. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology networking systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts and telecommunication failures, among other factors. any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations, or in our vendors , customers 22 table of contents or licensees operations, could result in a material disruption to our business. to the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our customers data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. in addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. from time to time, we install new or upgraded business management systems. to the extent such systems fail or are not properly implemented, we may experience material disruptions to our business, delays in our external financial reporting or failures in our system of internal controls, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are subject to government regulation pertaining to environmental and safety laws, to our industry, products and services, to corporate governance and public disclosure and to health care. national, state and local environmental laws and regulations affect our operations around the world. these laws may make it more expensive to manufacture, have manufactured and sell products. it may also be difficult to comply with laws and regulations in a timely manner, and we may not have compliant products available in the quantities requested by our customers, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. there is also the potential for higher costs driven by climate change regulations. our costs could increase if our vendors (e.g., third-party manufacturers or utility companies) pass on their costs to us. as part of the development and commercialization of our imod display technology, we are operating both a development and a production fabrication facility. the development and commercialization of imod display prototypes is a complex and precise process involving restricted materials subject to environmental and safety regulations. our failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental and safety regulations could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines and/or the suspension or termination of development and production activities. our products and services, and those of our customers and licensees, are subject to various regulations, including fcc regulations in the united states and other international regulations, as well as the specifications of national, regional and international standards bodies. the adoption of new laws or regulations, changes in the regulation of our activities, or exclusion or limitation of our technology or products by a government or standards body, could have a material adverse effect on our business, including, among other factors, changes in laws, policies, practices or enforcement affecting trade, foreign investments, licensing practices, spectrum license issuance, adoption of standards, the provision of wireless device subsidies by wireless operators to their customers, taxation, environmental protection, loans and employment. we hold licenses to use spectrum in the united states and the united kingdom, and we expect that licenses to use the bwa spectrum recently won in the auction in india will be assigned to us by december 2010. our licenses to use spectrum in the united states are subject to a variety of ongoing fcc proceedings. it is impossible to predict with certainty the outcome of pending fcc or other federal or state regulatory proceedings and the potential impact to our flo tv business or to our use of the spectrum for which we hold licenses. unless we are able to obtain relief, existing laws and regulations may inhibit our ability to expand our business and to introduce new products and services. furthermore, certain of our licenses in the united states are subject to minimum build-out requirements to be met at various dates beginning in june 2013. the bwa spectrum licenses will be subject to minimum build-out requirements to be met within five years of the effective date of the license. if we do not meet these requirements, the relevant government authorities could impose a fine or could rescind the license in the area(s) in which the build-out requirements are not met. changes in the allocation of available spectrum by the countries in which we hold licenses could have a material adverse risk on our business and the value of our assets. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and health care may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time. we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure and complying with laws and regulations. evolving interpretations of new or changed legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies, procedures, and/or health plans and may divert management time and attention to compliance activities. our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards may fail, particularly if there is ambiguity as to how such new or changed laws, regulations and standards should be applied in practice. further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. 23 table of contents we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our board members, executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. in addition, implementing our product and business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, and our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. the market for such specialized engineering and other talented employees in our industry is extremely competitive. in addition, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of u.s. universities, making the pool of available talent even smaller. key employees represent a significant asset, and the competition for these employees is intense in the wireless communications industry. we do not have employment agreements with our key management personnel. in the event of a labor shortage, or in the event of an unfavorable change in prevailing labor and/or immigration laws, we could experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified employees. we continue to anticipate increases in human resource needs, particularly in engineering. if we are unable to attract and retain the qualified employees that we need, our business may be harmed. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. we invest our cash in a number of diversified investment- and non-investment-grade fixed and floating rate securities, consisting of cash equivalents, marketable debt securities and debt mutual funds. changes in the general level of united states interest rates can affect the principal values and yields of fixed interest-bearing securities. if interest rates in the general economy were to rise rapidly in a short period of time, our fixed interest-bearing securities could lose value. when the general economy weakens significantly, the credit profile, financial strength and growth prospects of certain issuers of interest-bearing securities held in our investment portfolios may deteriorate, and our interest-bearing securities may lose value either temporarily or other than temporarily. we may implement investment strategies of different types with varying duration and risk/return trade-offs that do not perform well. the following table provides information about our interest-bearing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and loan payable to banks that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. the table presents principal cash flows, weighted-average yield at cost and contractual maturity dates. additionally, we have assumed that the interest-bearing securities are similar enough within the specified categories to aggregate the securities for presentation purposes. 44 table of contents principal amount by expected maturity average interest rates (dollars in millions) no single 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter maturity total fixed interest-bearing securities: cash and cash equivalents $ 698 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 698 interest rate 0.3 % time deposits $ 400 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 400 interest rate 0.6 % available-for-sale securities: investment grade $ 1,299 $ 672 $ 695 $ 558 $ 162 $ 229 $ 1,818 $ 5,433 interest rate 2.2 % 3.3 % 2.7 % 3.9 % 3.7 % 7.9 % 1.3 % non-investment grade $ 11 $ 25 $ 45 $ 107 $ 234 $ 836 $ 20 $ 1,278 interest rate 12.6 % 8.7 % 9.7 % 9.6 % 10.3 % 8.7 % 0.7 % floating interest-bearing securities: cash and cash equivalents $ 2,488 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2,488 interest rate 0.2 % available-for-sale securities: investment grade $ 785 $ 499 $ 225 $ 35 $ 29 $ 465 $ 451 $ 2,489 interest rate 1.0 % 0.8 % 0.9 % 1.7 % 1.0 % 8.7 % 2.8 % non-investment grade $ 5 $ 39 $ 137 $ 317 $ 146 $ 372 $ 1,071 $ 2,087 interest rate 7.6 % 5.7 % 6.5 % 6.6 % 6.4 % 7.0 % 4.1 % loan payable to banks $ 1,086 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,086 fixed interest rate 6.8 % cash and cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value. the loan payable to banks approximates fair value. equity price risk. we have a diversified marketable securities portfolio that includes equity securities held by mutual and exchange-traded fund shares that are subject to equity price risk. we have made investments in marketable equity securities of companies of varying size, style, industry and geography, and changes in investment allocations may affect the price volatility of our investments. a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual fund and exchange-traded fund shares at september 26, 2010 would cause a decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities of $270 million. at september 26, 2010, gross unrealized losses of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual and exchange-traded fund shares were $11 million. although we consider these unrealized losses to be temporary, there is a risk that we may incur net other-than-temporary impairment charges or realized losses on the values of these securities if they do not recover in value within a reasonable period. foreign exchange risk. we manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial counterparties. such derivative financial instruments are viewed as hedging or risk management tools and are not used for speculative or trading purposes. counterparties to our derivative contracts are all major institutions. in the event of the financial insolvency or distress of a counterparty to our derivative financial instruments, we may be unable to settle transactions if the counterparty does not provide us with sufficient collateral to secure its net settlement obligations to us, which could have a negative impact on our results. at september 26, 2010, we had a net liability of $13 million related to foreign currency option contracts that were designated as hedges of foreign currency risk on royalties earned from certain international licensees on their sales of cdma-based devices and a net liability of $2 million related to foreign currency option contracts that have been rendered ineffective as a result of changes in our forecast of royalty revenues. if our forecasted royalty revenues were to decline by 50% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in each of our hedged foreign currencies, we would incur a loss of approximately $16 million resulting from a decrease in the fair value of the portion of our hedges that would be rendered ineffective. in addition, we are subject to market risk on foreign currency option contracts that have been deemed ineffective. if foreign exchange rates relevant to those contracts were to change unfavorably by 20%, we would incur a loss of $20 million resulting from a decrease in the fair value of our hedges. see notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1 the company and its significant accounting policies for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies. 45 table of contents at september 26, 2010, we had a fixed-rate short-term bank loan of $1.1 billion, which is payable in full in indian rupees in december 2010. the loan is payable in the functional currency of our consolidated subsidiary that is party to the loan, however we are subject to foreign currency translation risk, which may impact the amount of our liability for principal repayment and interest expense we record in the future. if the foreign currency exchange rate were to change unfavorably by 20%, additional interest expense would be negligible due to the short-term nature of the loan. at september 26, 2010, we had an asset of $7 million related to foreign currency forward contracts that were not designated as hedges of certain payments to be made in indian rupees in connection with the bank loan. we are subject to market risk on such contracts. if the foreign exchange rates relevant to those contracts were to change unfavorably by 20%, we would incur a loss of $57 million. financial instruments held by consolidated subsidiaries that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. as a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. as a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. while we may hedge certain transactions with non-united states customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate the risks discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks.risk factors 13 risk factors you should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this annual report in evaluating our business and our prospects. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. you should also refer to the other information set forth in this annual report, including our financial statements and the related notes. risks related to our businesses our revenues are dependent on the commercial deployment of technologies based on cdma and ofdma, among others, and upgrades of 2g, 3g and 3g/4g multimode wireless communications equipment, products and services based on these technologies. we develop, patent and commercialize technology and products based on cdma and ofdma, among others. our revenues are dependent upon the commercial deployment of these technologies and products and upgrades of 2g, 3g and 3g/4g multimode wireless communications equipment, products and services based on these technologies. our business may be harmed, and our investments in these technologies may not provide us an adequate return if: wireless operators delay moving 2g customers to 3g devices; wireless operators delay 3g and/or 3g/4g multimode deployments, expansions or upgrades; government regulators delay the reallocation of 2g spectrum to allow wireless operators to upgrade to 3g, which will restrict the expansion of 3g wireless connectivity, primarily outside of major population areas; wireless operators are unable to drive improvements in 3g network performance and/or capacity; lte, an ofdma-based wireless standard, is not widely deployed or commercial deployment is delayed; or wireless operators and other industries using these technologies deploy other technologies. our business is dependent on our ability to increase our share of components sold and to continue to drive the adoption of our products and services into 3g, 3g/4g multimode and 4g wireless devices and networks. we are also dependent on the success of our customers, licensees and cdma- and ofdma-based wireless operators and other industries using our technologies, as well as the timing of their deployment of new services, and they may incur lower gross margins on products or services based on these technologies than on products using alternative technologies as a result of greater competition or other factors. if commercial deployment of these technologies, upgrade of 2g subscribers to 3g devices and upgrades to 3g, 3g/4g multimode or 4g wireless communications equipment, products and services based on these technologies do not continue or 13 are delayed, our revenues could be negatively impacted, and our business could suffer. our licensing revenues can be impacted by the deployment of other technologies in place of technologies based on cdma, ofdma and their derivatives or by the need to extend certain existing license agreements to cover additional later patents. although we own a very strong portfolio of issued and pending patents related to gsm, gprs, edge, ofdm, ofdma, wlan and multiple input, multiple output (mimo) technologies, our patent portfolio licensing program in these areas is less established and might not be as successful in generating licensing income as our cdma licensing program. many wireless operators are investigating or have selected lte (or to a lesser extent wimax) as next-generation technologies for deployment in existing or future spectrum bands as complementary to their existing cdma-based networks. although we believe that our patented technology is essential and useful to implementation of the lte and wimax industry standards and have granted royalty-bearing licenses to 13 companies (including lg, nokia and samsung) to make and sell products implementing those standards but not implementing 3g standards, the royalty rates for such products are generally lower than our royalty rates for 3g products (whether or not such 3g products also incorporate a lte or wimax mode of operation), and therefore, we might not achieve the same licensing revenues on such lte or wimax products as on cdma-based or multimode cdma/ofdma-based products. the licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date and, in a small number of agreements, royalties are payable on those patents for a specified time period. as a result, there are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us under our license agreements. in order to license any such later patents, we will need to extend or modify our license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees. we might not be able to modify such license agreements in the future to license any such later patents or extend such date(s) to incorporate later patents without affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees, and such modifications may impact our revenues. global economic conditions that impact the communications industry could negatively affect the demand for our products and our customers ' products, which may negatively affect our revenues. continued volatility in capital markets or a future decline in global economic conditions, particularly in geographic regions with high customer concentrations, could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products of our customers, particularly wireless communications equipment manufacturers or others in the wireless industry who buy their products, such as wireless operators. any prolonged financial or economic crisis may result in a downturn in demand for our products or technology; the insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; delays in reporting and/or payments from our licensees and/or customers; failures by counterparties; and negative effects on wireless device inventories. in addition, our direct and indirect customers' ability to purchase or pay for our products and services, obtain financing and upgrade wireless networks could be adversely affected by economic conditions, leading to cancellation or delay of orders for our products. our industry is subject to competition in an environment of rapid technological change that could result in decreased demand for our products and the products of our customers and licensees, declining average selling prices for our licensees ' products and our products and/or new specifications or requirements placed upon our products, each of which could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. our industry is subject to rapid technological change, and we must make substantial investments in new products, services and technologies to compete successfully. technological innovations generally require a substantial investment before they are commercially viable. we intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing new products and technologies, and it is possible that our development efforts will not be successful and that our new technologies will not result in meaningful revenues. our products, services and technologies face significant competition, and the revenues generated or the timing of their deployment, which may be dependent on the actions of others, may not meet our expectations. competition in the communications industry is affected by various factors that include, among others: evolving industry standards; evolving methods of transmission for voice and data communications; networking; value-added features that drive replacement rates and selling prices; turnkey, integrated product offerings that incorporate hardware, software, user interface and applications; scalability and the ability of the system technology to meet customers' immediate and future network requirements. our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to: increase demand for our integrated circuit products and drive their adoption across a broad spectrum of devices, such as smartphones and tablets, and into new areas of wireless connectivity, including gaming, wireless charging and the connected home; strengthen our integrated circuit product roadmap for, and develop channel relationships in, emerging geographic regions requiring turnkey product offerings for low-end smartphones; be a preferred partner for operating system platforms, such as android and windows phone, and effectively 14 commercialize windows 8 on arm processor-equipped devices; focus our service businesses on key opportunities, such as ehealth and machine-to-machine technologies (allowing both wireless and wired systems to communicate with other devices), among others, that create standalone value and/or contribute to the success of our other businesses; be a leader in the 4g technology evolution, including expansion of our lte (and wimax) single mode licensing program and timely introduction of 4g turnkey, integrated products and services; and succeed in significant foreign regions, such as china, india and europe. companies that promote wwan (wireless wide area network) technologies that are neither cdma- nor ofdma-based (e.g., gsm) and companies that design integrated circuits based on cdma, ofdma or their derivatives are generally competitors or potential competitors. examples (some of whom are strategic partners of ours in other areas) include broadcom, csr plc, freescale, fujitsu, intel, lantiq, marvell technology, mediatek, nvidia, renesas electronics, spreadtrum communications, st-ericsson (a joint venture between ericsson mobile platforms and st-nxp wireless), texas instruments and via telecom. many of these current and potential competitors have advantages over us that include, among others: motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to find alternate suppliers; foreign government support of other technologies; and more extensive relationships with indigenous distribution and original equipment manufacturer companies in developing territories (e.g., china). certain of our and our suppliers' software may contain or may be derived from open source software, and we have seen, and believe we will continue to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including software associated with our chipsets, that will incorporate open source software elements and operate in an open source environment, which, under certain open source licenses, may offer accessibility to a portion of a product's source code and may expose related intellectual property to adverse licensing conditions. licensing of such software may impose certain obligations on us if we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. for example, these obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to our customers in a manner that allows them to make such source code available to their customers, or license such derivative works under a particular type of license that is different than what we customarily use to license our software. developing open source products, while adequately protecting the intellectual property rights upon which our licensing business depends, may prove burdensome and time-consuming under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage for new product designs. also, our use and our customers' use of open source software may subject our products and our customers' products to governmental scrutiny and delays in product certification, which could cause customers to view our products as less desirable than our competitors' products. while we believe we have taken appropriate steps and employed adequate controls to protect our intellectual property rights, our use of open source software presents risks that could have an adverse effect on these rights and on our business. competition may reduce average selling prices for our chipset products and the products of our customers and licensees. reductions in the average selling prices of our licensees' products, unless offset by an increase in volumes, generally result in reduced total royalties payable to us. we anticipate that additional competitors will introduce products as a result of growth opportunities in wireless communications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in selected segments of the industry. we derive a significant portion of our consolidated revenues from a small number of customers and licensees. if revenues derived from these customers or licensees decrease, our operating results could be negatively affected. our qct segment derives a significant portion of revenues from a small number of customers. the loss of any one of our qct segment's significant customers or the delay, even if only temporary, or cancellation of significant orders from any of these customers would reduce our revenues in the period of the delay or cancellation and harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected operating results. accordingly, unless and until our qct segment diversifies and expands its customer base, our future success will largely depend upon the timing and size of any future purchase orders from these customers. although we have more than 200 licensees, our qtl segment derives a significant portion of licensing revenues from a limited number of licensees. our future success depends upon the ability of our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver high-volume products that achieve and sustain customer acceptance. we have little or no control over the sales efforts of our licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. reductions in the average selling price of wireless devices sold by our major licensees, without a sufficient increase in the volumes of such devices sold, could have an adverse effect on our revenues. efforts by some communications equipment manufacturers or their customers to avoid paying fair and reasonable royalties for the use of our intellectual property may create uncertainty about our future business prospects, may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources, and may result in legal decisions and/or actions by foreign governments, standards development organizations (sdos) or other industry groups that harm our business. a small number of companies, in the past, have initiated various strategies in an attempt to renegotiate, mitigate and/or 15 eliminate their need to pay royalties to us for the use of our intellectual property in order to negatively affect our business model and that of our other licensees. these strategies have included (i) litigation, often alleging infringement of patents held by such companies, patent misuse, patent exhaustion and patent and license unenforceability, or some form of unfair competition, (ii) taking positions contrary to our understanding of their contracts with us, (iii) appeals to governmental authorities, (iv) collective action, including working with wireless operators, standards bodies, other like-minded companies and other organizations, on both formal and informal bases, to adopt intellectual property policies and practices that could have the effect of limiting returns on intellectual property innovations, and (v) lobbying with governmental regulators and elected officials for the purpose of seeking the imposition of some form of compulsory licensing and/or to weaken a patent holder's ability to enforce its rights or obtain a fair return for such rights. some companies or entities have proposed significant changes to existing intellectual property policies for implementation by sdos and other industry organizations, some of which would require a maximum aggregate intellectual property royalty rate for the use of all essential patents owned by all of the member companies to be applied to the selling price of any product implementing the relevant standard. they have further proposed that such maximum aggregate royalty rate be apportioned to each member company with essential patents based upon the number of essential patents held by such company. a number of these strategies are purportedly based on interpretations of the policies of certain sdos concerning the licensing of patents that are or may be essential to industry standards and our alleged failure to abide by these policies. others have made proposals that could severely limit damage awards and other remedies by courts for patent infringement. there is a risk that relevant courts or governmental agencies will interpret some or all of those proposals in a manner adverse to our interests. if such proposals and strategies continue and are successful in the future, our business model would be harmed, either by artificially limiting our return on investment with respect to new technologies or forcing us to work outside of the sdos or such other industry groups to promote our new technologies, and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. as well, the legal and other costs associated with defending our position have been and continue to be significant. we assume that such challenges regardless of their merits will continue into the foreseeable future and may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources to explain and defend our position. other companies or entities have commenced, and may again commence, actions seeking to establish the invalidity of one or more of our patents. in the event that one or more of our patents are challenged, a court may invalidate the patent(s) or determine that the patent(s) is not enforceable, which could harm our competitive position. if our key patents are invalidated, or if the scope of the claims in any of these patents is limited by court decision, we could be prevented from licensing the invalidated or limited portion of such patents. such adverse decisions, depending upon their extent, could negatively impact our revenues. even if such a patent challenge is not successful, it could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. the enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive, could fail to prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary intellectual property rights or could result in the loss of our ability to enforce one or more patents. we rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes, including our patent portfolio. policing unauthorized use of our products, technologies and proprietary information is difficult and time consuming. we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken, or may take in the future, will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary intellectual property rights as fully or as readily as united states laws. we cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country, including the united states, or the practices of any of the standards bodies, foreign or domestic, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing or the adoption of standards, will not be changed in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. we may have difficulty in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights and/or contracts in a particular foreign jurisdiction, including: challenges to our licensing practices under such jurisdictions' competition laws; adoption of mandatory licensing provisions by foreign jurisdictions (either with controlled/regulated royalties or royalty free); failure of foreign courts to recognize and enforce judgments of contract breach and damages issued by u.s. courts; and challenges pending before foreign competition agencies to the pricing and integration of additional features and functionality into our wireless chipset products. a substantial portion of our patents and patent applications relate to our wireless communications technology and much of the remainder of our patents and patent applications relate to our other technologies and products. we may need to litigate in the united states or elsewhere in the world to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. as a result of any such litigation, we could lose our ability to enforce one or more patents or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. any action we take to enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property could adversely affect our business. 16 from time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights against our products or products using our technologies or other technologies used in our industry. these claims have resulted and may again result in our involvement in litigation. we may not prevail in such litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if any of our products were found to infringe on another company's intellectual property rights, we could be subject to an injunction or required to redesign our products, which could be costly, or to license such rights and/or pay damages or other compensation to such other company. if we were unable to redesign our products, license such intellectual property rights used in our products or otherwise distribute our products through a licensed supplier, we could be prohibited from making and selling such products. in any potential dispute involving other companies' patents or other intellectual property, our chipset foundries, semiconductor assembly and test providers and customers could also become the targets of litigation. we are contingently liable under certain product sales, services, license and other agreements to indemnify certain customers against certain types of liability and/or damages arising from qualifying claims of patent infringement by products or services sold or provided by us. reimbursements under indemnification arrangements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. furthermore, any such litigation could severely disrupt the supply of our products and the businesses of our chipset customers and their wireless operator customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our chipset sales and/or reductions in our licensees' sales, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. any claims, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming to address, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have an adverse effect upon our operating results. we expect that we may continue to be involved in litigation and may have to appear in front of administrative bodies (such as the u.s. international trade commission) to defend against patent assertions against our products by companies, some of whom are attempting to gain competitive advantage or leverage in licensing negotiations. we may not be successful in such proceedings, and if we are not, the range of possible outcomes includes everything from royalty payment to an injunction on the sale of certain of our chipsets (and on the sale of our customers' devices using our chipsets). any imposition of royalty payments might make purchases of our chipsets less economical for our customers. a negative outcome in any such proceeding could severely disrupt the business of our chipset customers and their wireless operator customers, which in turn could harm our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our share of worldwide chipset sales and/or a reduction in our licensees' sales to wireless operators, causing corresponding declines in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. a number of other companies have claimed to own patents essential to various cdma standards, gsm standards and ofdma standards or implementations of systems based on such standards. if we or other product manufacturers are required to obtain additional licenses and/or pay royalties to one or more of such other patent holders, this could have an adverse effect on the commercial implementation of our cdma, gsm, ofdma or multimode products and technologies, demand for our licensees' products and our results of operations. our earnings and stock price are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market downturns. the market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future as well. factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock include, among others: volatility of the stock market in general and technology-based companies in particular that is often unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company; announcements concerning us or our competitors, including the selection of wireless communications technology by wireless operators and the timing of the roll-out of those systems; international developments, such as technology mandates, political developments or changes in economic policies; changes in recommendations of securities analysts; proprietary rights or product or patent litigation against us or against our customers or licensees; strategic transactions, such as spin-offs, acquisitions and divestitures; unexpected and/or significant changes in the average selling price of our licensees' products and our products; unresolved disputes with licensees that result in non-payment and/or non-recognition of royalty revenues that may be owed to us; or rumors or allegations regarding our financial disclosures or practices. in the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. due to changes in the potential volatility of our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. securities litigation could result in substantial uninsured costs and divert management's attention and resources. changes in financial market volatility and liquidity may result in declines in the value and performance of our significant 17 portfolio of marketable securities. net investment income could vary depending on the gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities, impairment charges related to marketable securities and other investments, changes in interest rates and changes in fair values of derivative instruments. these factors affecting our future earnings are difficult to forecast and could harm our quarterly and/or annual operating results. if our earnings fail to meet the financial guidance we provide to investors, or the expectations of investment analysts or investors in any period, securities class action litigation could be brought against us and/or the market price of our common stock could decline. we depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for our procurement, manufacture and testing of product inventories. if these third-party suppliers fail to meet our needs, or if there are any disruptions in the operations of, or a loss of, any of these third-party suppliers, it could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers, reduce our revenues, increase our cost of sales and harm our business. we purchase raw materials, component parts, subassemblies and specialized manufacturing equipment from our suppliers and contract with separate suppliers for probe, assembly, test and other services in the manufacture of our product inventories. a reduction, interruption or delay in our product supply source, a failure by our suppliers to allocate adequate manufacturing or test capacity to our products or their inability to react to shifts in product demand or an increase in raw material or component prices could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands, our business and/or our profitability. the loss of a significant supplier or the inability of a supplier to meet performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers and negatively impact our revenues and business operations. in the event of a loss of, or a decision to change, a supplier, qualifying a new foundry supplier and commencing volume production or testing could cause us to incur additional expense and production delays, resulting in possible loss of customers. while our goal is to establish alternate suppliers for technologies that we consider critical, we rely on sole- or limited-source suppliers for some products, subjecting us to significant risks, including: possible shortages of raw materials or manufacturing capacity; poor product performance; and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability and yields, quality assurance, quantity and costs. our arrangements with our suppliers may oblige us to incur costs to manufacture and test our products that do not decrease at the same rate as decreases in pricing to our customers. qct segment. although we have entered into long-term contracts with our suppliers, these contracts generally do not provide for long-term capacity commitments, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order that has been accepted by our supplier. to the extent that we do not have firm commitments from our suppliers over a specific time period, or for any specific quantity, our suppliers may allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production and testing of products for their other customers while reducing capacity to manufacture or test our products. accordingly, capacity for our products may not be available when we need it or available at reasonable prices. we have experienced capacity limitations from our suppliers, which resulted in supply constraints and our inability to meet certain customer demand. the timely readiness of our foundry suppliers to support transitions to smaller geometry process technologies could also impact our ability to meet customer demand and may subject us to the risk of excess inventories. if we experience these or other supply constraints in the future, we may not be able to meet customer demand, and our revenues and results of operations could suffer. qmt division. our qmt division needs to further develop its business relationships with raw materials and component supply partners to support the manufacture of imod displays and/or modules in commercial volumes. we depend on certain raw materials, components, and specialized manufacturing equipment, primarily from suppliers in taiwan, japan and south korea, to produce our imod display panels, and we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities and acceptable quality of raw materials, components and equipment in the future to support commercial production. the effect of these supplier-related risks could negatively impact the adoption of the imod technology. our suppliers may also be our competitors, putting us at a disadvantage for pricing and capacity allocation. one or more of our suppliers may obtain rights from us to manufacture cdma- or ofdma-based integrated circuits that compete with our products. in this event, the supplier could elect to allocate raw materials and manufacturing capacity to their own products and reduce deliveries to us to our detriment. in addition, we may not receive reasonable pricing, manufacturing or delivery terms. we cannot guarantee that the actions of our suppliers will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost of sales. we may engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make investments that could result in significant changes or management disruption and fail to enhance stockholder value. from time to time, we engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make investments with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. we acquire businesses and other assets, including spectrum licenses and other intangible assets, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase equity and debt securities, including minority interests in publicly-traded and private companies. many of our strategic investments are in early-stage companies to expand the wireless industry and promote the global adoption of cdma- or ofdma-based technologies and related services. most of our acquisitions or 18 strategic investments entail a high degree of risk and will not become liquid until more than one year from the date of investment, if at all. our acquisitions or strategic investments (either those we have completed or may undertake in the future) may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies. in some cases, we may be required to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of companies in which we have acquired ownership interests. our share of any losses will adversely affect our financial results until we exit from or reduce our exposure to these investments. achieving the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions, such as our recent acquisition of atheros, depends in part upon our ability to integrate the acquired businesses in an efficient and effective manner. the integration of companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, including, among others: retaining key employees; successfully integrating new employees, business systems and technology; retaining customers and suppliers of the acquired business; minimizing the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business matters; coordinating geographically separate organizations; consolidating research and development operations; and consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. we may not derive any commercial value from acquired technology, products and intellectual property or from future technologies and products based on the acquired technology and/or intellectual property, and we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by indemnification protection we may obtain. additionally, we may not be successful in expanding into geographic regions and/or categories of products served by or adjacent to an acquired business and in addressing potential new opportunities that may arise out of the combination. due to our inexperience with products and/or geographic regions served by acquired businesses, we may overestimate the benefits, including product and other synergies and growth opportunities that we expect to realize, and we may fail to achieve them. for example, atheros' business has focused on lan connectivity and products for wlan (also referred to as wifi) and other technologies primarily for networking, computing and other consumer electronic devices. we may not realize the expected return on our investment in atheros if we do not effectively execute upon the product and business strategies and/or other opportunities created by the acquisition. our qmt division ' business does not currently generate operating income and may not succeed or its operating results may not meet our expectations. while we continue to believe our qmt division's imod displays will offer compelling advantages to users of displays, other technologies may continue to improve in ways that reduce the advantages we anticipate from our imod displays. sales of flat panel displays are currently dominated, and we believe will likely continue to be dominated for some time, by displays based on liquid crystal display (lcd) technology. numerous companies are making substantial investments in, and conducting research to improve characteristics of, lcds. additionally, several other flat panel display technologies have been, or are being, developed, including technologies for the production of organic light-emitting diode (oled), field emission, inorganic electroluminescence, gas plasma and vacuum fluorescent displays. in each case, advances in lcd or other flat panel display technologies could result in technologies that are more cost effective, have fewer display limitations or can be brought to market faster than our imod technology. these advances in competing technologies might cause device manufacturers to avoid entering into commercial relationships with us or to not renew planned or existing relationships with us. we may not evolve our qmt division into a successful display-based subsystem provider if we are unable to cost-effectively manufacture and commercialize our imod display product. we are constructing a new facility in taiwan to manufacture our imod display product. we may experience unforeseen difficulties, delays or defects upon volume production and broad deployment of this product. delays in the commercial launch of our imod display product could result from delays in facility construction, delivery of specialized test equipment and numerous other factors. in addition, we have limited experience in the display business, and we may be unsuccessful in selling our imod display product. our qmt division had $806 million in assets (including $136 million in goodwill) at september 25, 2011 . if we do not expect to achieve or do not achieve adequate market penetration with our imod display technology, our assets may become impaired, negatively impacting our operating results, and we may not meet future earnings projections related to this business. currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues, harm our ability to collect receivables or increase the u.s. dollar cost of the activities of our foreign subsidiaries and international strategic investments. our international customers sell their products throughout the world in various currencies. consolidated revenues from international customers as a percentage of total revenues were greater than 90% in the last three fiscal years. we are exposed to risk from fluctuations in currencies that could negatively affect our operating results. adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business due to a number of situations, including the following, among others: our products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold outside the united states may become less price-competitive as a result of adverse currency fluctuations; certain of our revenues, such as royalties, are derived from licensee or customer sales that are denominated in foreign currencies. weakening of currency values versus the u.s. dollar in selected regions could reduce our revenues and cash flows; we may engage in foreign exchange hedging transactions that could affect our cash flows and results of operations 19 because they may require the payment of structuring fees, limit the u.s. dollar value of royalties from licensees' sales that are denominated in foreign currencies, cause earnings volatility if the hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting and expose us to counterparty risk if the counterparty fails to perform; our loans payable are denominated in indian rupees. if the u.s. dollar weakens, additional cash may be required to settle this obligation and the related interest; currency exchange rate fluctuations may reduce the u.s. dollar value of our marketable securities that are denominated directly or indirectly in foreign currencies; and certain suppliers may price goods in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. a weakening dollar would result in higher than expected costs for these goods. failures in our products and services or in the products of our customers, including those resulting from security vulnerabilities, defects or errors, could harm our business. the use of devices containing our products to access untrusted content creates a risk of exposing the system software in those devices to viral or malicious attacks. while we continue to expand our focus on this issue and are taking measures to safeguard our products from cybersecurity threats, device capabilities continue to evolve in a 3g/4g environment, enabling more data and processes, such as mobile computing, and risks that security failures will occur are increasing. our products are inherently complex and may contain defects or errors that are detected only when the products are in use. for example, as our chipset product complexities increase, we are required to migrate to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes. the design process interface issues are more complex as we enter into these new domains of technology, which adds risk to yields and reliability. manufacturing, testing, marketing and use of our products and those of our customers and licensees entail the risk of product liability. because our products and services are responsible for critical functions in our customers' products and/or networks, security failures, defects or errors in our components, materials or software or those used by our customers could have an adverse impact on us, on our customers and on the end users of their products. such adverse impact could include product liability claims or recalls, a decrease in demand for connected devices and wireless services, damage to our reputation and to our customer relationships, and other financial liability or harm to our business. our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches. attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated and are sometimes successful. these attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. we seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. the theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. to the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers' or licensees' confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. in addition, we expect to devote additional resources to the security of our information technology systems. potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could materially differ from amounts reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. in such case, our income tax provision and results of operations in the period or periods in which that determination is made could be negatively affected. tax rules may change in a manner that adversely affects our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. for example, we consider the operating earnings of certain non-united states subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the united states based on estimates that future domestic cash generation will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs for at least the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. no provision has been made for united states federal and state or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. our future financial results and liquidity may be adversely affected if tax rules regarding unrepatriated earnings change, if domestic cash needs require us to repatriate foreign earnings, or if the united states international tax rules change as part of comprehensive tax reform or other tax legislation. if wireless devices pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our products and those of our customers and licensees may decrease. concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions continue. interest groups have requested that the fcc investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and medical devices. concerns have also been expressed over, and state laws have been enacted to mitigate, the possibility of safety 20 risks due to a lack of attention associated with the use of wireless devices while driving. legislation that may be adopted in response to these concerns or adverse news or findings about safety risks could reduce demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers in the united states as well as in foreign countries. we are subject to government regulations. our business may suffer as a result of changes in laws or regulations, our failure or inability to comply with laws or regulations or adverse rulings in enforcement or other proceedings. national, state and local environmental laws and regulations affect our operations around the world. these laws may make it more expensive to manufacture, have manufactured and sell products. it may also be difficult to comply with laws and regulations in a timely manner, and we may not have compliant products available in the quantities requested by our customers, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. there is also the potential for higher costs driven by environmental regulations. our costs could increase if our vendors (e.g., third-party manufacturers or utility companies) pass on their costs to us. as part of the development and commercialization of our imod display technology, we are operating both a development and a production fabrication facility. the development and commercialization of imod display prototypes is a complex and precise process involving restricted materials subject to environmental and safety regulations. our failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental and safety regulations could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines and/or the suspension or termination of development and production activities. our products and services, and those of our customers and licensees, are subject to various regulations, including fcc regulations in the united states and other international regulations, as well as the specifications of international, national and regional standards bodies. the adoption of new laws or regulations, changes in the regulation of our activities, or exclusion or limitation of our technology or products by a government or standards body, could have an adverse effect on our business, including, among other factors, changes in laws, policies, practices or enforcement affecting trade, foreign investments, licensing practices, spectrum license issuance, adoption of standards, the provision of wireless device subsidies by wireless operators to their customers, taxation, environmental protection, loans and employment. we hold licenses to use spectrum in the united states and the united kingdom. all of these licenses are subject to a variety of ongoing regulatory proceedings in these respective countries. additionally, certain of our licenses in the united states are subject to fcc minimum build-out requirements to be met at various dates beginning in june 2013. in the event that we fail to meet a fcc build-out requirement for a given license, the fcc can impose sanctions, including a monetary fine, a reduction in our licensed territory and/or revocation of our license. on december 20, 2010, we announced that we have agreed to sell substantially all of our united states spectrum licenses to at&amp;t, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including approval by the fcc. we, together with at&amp;t, filed an application for approval of the sale with the fcc on january 13, 2011. on august 8, 2011, the chief of the fcc wireless telecommunications bureau sent a letter to us and at&amp;t stating that the fcc had decided to coordinate its review of our transaction with its review of the proposed merger of at&amp;t and t-mobile usa, although the fcc reserved the right to treat the two transactions independently at a later date, and the fcc declined to formally consolidate its proceedings over the two transactions. our application remains pending before the fcc. our agreement with at&amp;t terminates on january 13, 2012; however, we or at&amp;t can extend the agreement for another 90 days thereafter if the fcc approval has not been received by then. we may not receive fcc approval before the agreement expires. if we do receive fcc approval before the agreement expires, the fcc could impose conditions on its approval. depending on the conditions imposed, at&amp;t may not be obligated to close the sale in light of the conditions. if we do not receive fcc approval for the sale of these licenses pursuant to this agreement or if the sale does not close because of the conditions imposed by the fcc on its approval, we may not be able to obtain a comparable price from another party, enter into a transaction that would obtain fcc approval or meet the applicable build-out requirements for those licenses. in june 2010, we won a 20 mhz slot of broadband wireless access (bwa) spectrum in four regions (known as telecom circles) in india as a result of the completion of the bwa spectrum auction for which we made a $1.1 billion payment ($994 million at september 25, 2011). we created four wholly-owned subsidiaries, and on august 9, 2010, each subsidiary filed an application to obtain a license to operate a wireless network on this spectrum for one of the respective regions. thereafter, two indian companies each acquired 13% of each subsidiary. on september 21, 2011, we received a letter dated september 7, 2011 from the government of india's department of telecommunications (dot) (the dot letter) notifying us that our applications had been rejected based on its conclusion that the applications were filed after the deadline and that we were restricted to filing one application rather than four. on september 27, 2011, we filed a petition with the telecom disputes settlement and appellate tribunal (tdsat) seeking to overturn the dot letter. on september 28, 2011, the tdsat issued an order granting us interim relief, pending a final determination of our case, directing the dot to (i) not issue the spectrum that has been earmarked to us to anyone else and (ii) not forfeit or appropriate the payment that we made for the spectrum. on october 10, 2011, one of our subsidiaries received a letter from the dot offering to issue it a license that would cover all of india, including the four regions for which we won spectrum at the june 2010 auction, assuming that the subsidiary met certain requirements by 21 november 9, 2011. on october 18, 2011, the subsidiary submitted to the dot a letter accepting the dot's offer, requesting issuance of a license as soon as possible after certain requirements are met, and stating that upon issuance of the license, our three other subsidiaries would merge into the subsidiary that had been granted a license. on october 19, 2011, the dot filed a reply to our september 27, 2011 petition with the tdsat. in its reply, the dot stated that upon issuance of a license, our subsidiary could apply for assignment of the spectrum, and at that time, the dot would decide whether to grant the requested assignment and whether our applications for licenses were timely filed in accordance with its rules. on october 20, 2011, the tdsat conducted a second hearing on our case. at the conclusion of the hearing, the tdsat ordered the dot to clarify the aforementioned statements in its october 19, 2011 reply in light of its october 10, 2011 offer. the tdsat scheduled another hearing for november 8, 2011. if we do not ultimately prevail, our subsidiary may not receive a license or an assignment of the spectrum that we won in the auction; and in either of those events, our payment for the spectrum may not be returned. also in connection with the bwa spectrum acquisition, each of the subsidiaries entered into loan agreements with multiple banks that define certain events as events of default, including, among other things, if certain government authorizations are revoked, terminated, withdrawn, suspended, modified or withheld. if the dot's rejection of our license applications were to be considered an event of default, the bank lenders could declare the loans due and payable immediately. we have received waivers from each of the bank lenders related to this matter until at least april 1, 2012, conditioned upon our continuing to pursue our legal rights in this matter, and agreeing that any default will be deemed cured under certain circumstances, including if one of the relevant subsidiaries is granted the license and the other three are pursuing a merger into the subsidiary that has been offered a license. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and health care may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases, and their application in practice may evolve over time. as a result, our efforts to comply may fail, particularly if there is ambiguity as to how they should be applied in practice. evolving interpretations of new or changed legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and/or procedures and may divert management time and attention to compliance activities. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our board members, executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. in addition, implementing our product and business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, and our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. the market for such specialized engineering and other talented employees in our industry is extremely competitive. in addition, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the united states, making the pool of available talent even smaller. key employees represent a significant asset, and the competition for these employees is intense in our industry. we continue to anticipate increases in human resource needs, particularly in engineering. if we are unable to attract and retain the qualified employees that we need, our business may be harmed. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. we invest a portion of our cash in a number of diversified investment- and non-investment-grade fixed and floating rate securities, consisting of cash equivalents, marketable debt securities and debt mutual funds. changes in the general level of united states interest rates can affect the principal values and yields of fixed interest-bearing securities. if interest rates in the general economy were to rise rapidly in a short period of time, our fixed interest-bearing securities could lose value. when the general economy weakens significantly, the credit profile, financial strength and growth prospects of certain issuers of interest-bearing securities held in our investment portfolios may deteriorate, and our interest-bearing securities may lose value either temporarily or other than temporarily. we may implement investment strategies of different types with varying duration and risk/return trade-offs that do not perform well. the following table provides information about our interest-bearing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and loans payable that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. the table presents principal cash flows, weighted-average yield at cost and contractual maturity dates. additionally, we have assumed that the interest-bearing securities are similar enough within the specified categories to aggregate the securities for presentation purposes. principal amount by expected maturity average interest rates (dollars in millions) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter no single maturity total fixed interest-bearing securities: cash and cash equivalents $ 2,131 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2,131 interest rate 0.2 % marketable securities: investment grade $ 1,445 $ 1,273 $ 737 $ 254 $ 404 $ 522 $ 2,032 $ 6,667 interest rate 1.1 % 1.6 % 3.2 % 3.0 % 3.0 % 5.8 % 1.5 % non-investment grade $ 3 $ 12 $ 30 $ 82 $ 135 $ 772 $ 12 $ 1,046 interest rate 6.7 % 7.8 % 9.4 % 9.4 % 8.0 % 8.0 % 0.7 % floating interest-bearing securities: cash and cash equivalents $ 2,493 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2,493 interest rate 0.04 % marketable securities: investment grade $ 342 $ 572 $ 566 $ 10 $ 25 $ 389 $ 574 $ 2,478 interest rate 0.6 % 0.7 % 1.0 % 5.5 % 2.7 % 8.9 % 1.9 % non-investment grade $ 12 $ 60 $ 202 $ 130 $ 186 $ 923 $ 1,113 $ 2,626 interest rate 6.3 % 5.7 % 6.3 % 6.2 % 5.0 % 5.9 % 4.5 % loans payable (1) $ $ 994 $ $ $ $ $ $ 994 floating interest rate 10.0 % (1) denominated in indian rupees. cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities are recorded at fair value. the loans payable approximate fair value. as of september 25, 2011, all but one of the lenders of the loans payable had the right to demand prepayment of its portion of the loans outstanding on december 15, 2011, subject to sufficient prior written notice. the date by which those lenders were required to have given notice has now passed, and those lenders can no longer demand prepayment. one remaining lender can demand prepayment of its portion of the loans outstanding on february 28, 2012 ($152 million at september 25, 2011) if notice is given by december 15, 2011. we have received conditional waivers from each of the bank lenders until at least april 1, 2012. as a result of these items, the due date for all or a portion of the loans payable could be accelerated. 42 equity price risk. we hold a diversified marketable securities portfolio that includes equity securities and equity commingled and exchange-traded fund shares that are subject to equity price risk. we have made investments in marketable equity securities of companies of varying size, style, industry and geography, and changes in investment allocations may affect the price volatility of our investments. a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual fund and exchange-traded fund shares at september 25, 2011 would cause a decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities of $263 million. at september 25, 2011 , gross unrealized losses of our marketable equity securities and equity mutual and exchange-traded fund shares were $70 million. although we consider these unrealized losses to be temporary, there is a risk that we may incur net other-than-temporary impairment charges or realized losses on the values of these securities if they do not recover in value within a reasonable period. in connection with our stock repurchase program, we may sell put options that require us to repurchase shares of our common stock at fixed prices. these written put options subject us to equity price risk. at september 25, 2011 , we had three outstanding put options, enabling holders to sell 11,800,000 shares of our common stock upon exercise for approximately $586 million. the put option liabilities, with a fair value of $80 million at september 25, 2011 , were included in other current liabilities. if the fair value of our common stock at september 25, 2011 decreased by 15%, the amount required to physically settle the put options would exceed the fair value of the shares by $12 million, net of the $75 million in premiums received. foreign exchange risk. we manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial counterparties. such derivative financial instruments are viewed as hedging or risk management tools and are not used for speculative or trading purposes. counterparties to our derivative contracts are all major institutions. in the event of the financial insolvency or distress of a counterparty to our derivative financial instruments, we may be unable to settle transactions if the counterparty does not provide us with sufficient collateral to secure its net settlement obligations to us, which could have a negative impact on our results. at september 25, 2011 , we had a net liability of $25 million related to foreign currency option contracts that were designated as hedges of foreign currency risk on royalties earned from certain licensees on their sales of cdma-based devices. if our forecasted royalty revenues were to decline by 50% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in each of our hedged foreign currencies, we would incur a loss of approximately $23 million resulting from a decrease in the fair value of the portion of our hedges that would be rendered ineffective. at september 25, 2011 , we had an asset of $7 million related to a foreign currency forward contract that was designated as a net investment hedge of our investment in a wholly-owned subsidiary in australia. we are subject to market risk on such contract. if the exchange rates relevant to that contract were to change unfavorably by 20%, we would incur a loss of $11 million. see notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1 the company and its significant accounting policies for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies. at september 25, 2011 , we had floating-rate bank loans in the aggregate of $994 million, which are payable in full in indian rupees in december 2012. the loans are payable in the functional currency of our consolidated subsidiaries that are party to the loans; however, we are subject to foreign currency translation risk, which may impact our liability for principal repayment and interest expense that we will record in the future. if the foreign currency exchange rate were to change unfavorably by 20%, we would incur additional principal of $248 million and interest expense of $30 million through the remainder of the contractual terms of the loans. financial instruments held by consolidated subsidiaries that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. as a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. as a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. while we may hedge certain transactions with non-united states customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate the risks discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks.risk factors 13 risk factors you should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this annual report in evaluating our business and our prospects. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. you should also refer to the other information set forth in this annual report, including our financial statements and the related notes. risks related to our businesses our revenues are dependent on the commercial deployment of cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies and our customers ' and licensees ' sales of communications equipment, products and services based on these technologies. we develop, patent and commercialize technology and products based on cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies. our revenues are dependent upon the commercial deployment of these technologies and our customers' and 13 licensees' sales of wireless communications equipment, products and services based on these technologies. our business may be harmed, and our substantial investments in these technologies may not provide us an adequate return, if: wireless operators delay 3g and/or 3g/4g multimode deployments, expansions or upgrades and/or delay moving 2g customers to 3g or 3g/4g multimode devices; lte, an ofdma-based 4g wireless standard, is not more widely deployed or commercial deployment is delayed; government regulators delay the reallocation of 2g spectrum to allow wireless operators to upgrade to 3g, thereby restricting the expansion of 3g wireless connectivity, primarily outside of major population areas; wireless operators are unable to drive improvements in 3g network performance and/or capacity; or wireless operators and other industries using these technologies deploy other technologies. our business is dependent on our ability to increase our share of components sold and to continue to drive the adoption of our products and services into 3g, 3g/4g multimode and 4g wireless devices and networks. we are also dependent on the success of our customers, licensees, operators of cdma- and ofdma-based wireless networks and other industries using our technologies, as well as the timing of their deployment of new products and services, and they may incur lower gross margins on products or services based on these technologies than on products using alternative technologies. if commercial deployment or upgrades of these technologies or upgrades of 2g subscribers to 3g, 3g/4g multimode or 4g wireless communications equipment, products or services based on these technologies do not continue or are delayed, our revenues could be negatively impacted, and our business could suffer. our industry is subject to competition in an environment of rapid technological change that could result in decreased demand and/or declining average selling prices for our products and those of our licensees and/or result in new specifications or requirements placed upon our products, each of which could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. our industry is subject to rapid technological change, and we must make substantial investments in new products, services and technologies to compete successfully. technological innovations generally require a substantial investment before they are commercially viable. we intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing new products and technologies, and it is possible that our development efforts will not be successful and that our new technologies will not result in meaningful revenues. our products, services and technologies face significant competition, and the revenues generated or the timing of their deployment, which may be dependent on the actions of others, may not meet our expectations. competition in the communications industry is affected by various factors that include, among others: evolving industry standards and business models; evolving methods of transmission for voice and data communications; networking; value-added features that drive replacement rates and selling prices; turnkey, integrated product offerings that incorporate hardware, software, user interface and applications; and scalability and the ability of the system technology to meet customers' immediate and future network requirements. our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to: increase and/or accelerate demand for our integrated circuit products and drive their adoption into the most popular device models and across a broad spectrum of devices, such as smartphones, tablets and other mobile computing devices, and into a new generation of products for consumer electronics and connectivity, including gaming, wireless charging, ehealth and the connected home; strengthen our integrated circuit product roadmap for, and develop channel relationships in, emerging geographic regions requiring turnkey product offerings for low-end smartphones; be a preferred partner (and sustain preferred relationships) providing products that support android, windows phone/rt and other operating system platforms and the effective commercialization of new devices using these platforms; continue to be a leader in 4g technology evolution, including expansion of our ofdma-based single mode licensing program, and continue our timely introduction of 4g turnkey, integrated products and services; be a leader serving original equipment manufacturers, high level operating systems (hlos) providers, operators and other industry participants as new market entrants and other factors affect the industry landscape; become a leading supplier of small cell technology (which allows inexpensive cell sites deployed by users to connect to traditional cellular networks through wired internet connections) to enable significant network capacity expansion to meet anticipated growth in mobile data traffic; develop brand recognition as we compete against better known companies in mobile computing and other consumer driven arenas; 14 focus our service businesses on key opportunities, such as wireless charging, ehealth and machine-to-machine technologies (allowing both wireless and wired systems to communicate with other devices) that create standalone value and/or contribute to the success of our other businesses; and succeed in significant foreign regions, such as china, india and europe. companies that promote standards that are neither cdma- nor ofdma-based (e.g., gsm) and companies that design integrated circuits based on cdma, ofdma or their derivatives are generally competitors or potential competitors. examples (some of which are strategic partners of ours in other areas) include broadcom, csr plc, freescale, hisilicon technologies, intel, lantiq, marvell technology, matsushita, mediatek, motorola mobility, nvidia, renesas electronics, samsung, spreadtrum communications, st-ericsson (a joint venture between ericsson mobile platforms and st-nxp wireless), texas instruments and via telecom. many of these current and potential competitors have advantages over us that include, among others: motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to find alternate suppliers; foreign government support of other technologies; more extensive relationships with local distribution companies and original equipment manufacturers in emerging geographic regions (e.g., china); and/or a more established presence in certain device markets. certain of our software and our suppliers' software may contain or may be derived from open source software, and we have seen, and believe we will continue to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including software associated with our integrated circuit products, that incorporate open source software elements and operate in an open source environment, which, under certain open source licenses, may offer accessibility to a portion of a product's source code and may expose related intellectual property to adverse licensing conditions. licensing of such software may impose certain obligations on us if we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. for example, these obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to our customers in a manner that allows them to make such source code available to their customers, or license such derivative works under a particular type of license that is different than what we customarily use to license our software. developing open source products, while adequately protecting the intellectual property rights upon which our licensing business depends, may prove burdensome and time-consuming under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage for new product designs. also, our use and our customers' use of open source software may subject our products and our customers' products to governmental scrutiny and delays in product certification, which could cause customers to view our products as less desirable than our competitors' products. while we believe we have taken appropriate steps and employed adequate controls to protect our intellectual property rights, our use of open source software presents risks that could have an adverse effect on these rights and on our business. competition may reduce average selling prices for our chipset products and the products of our customers and licensees. total royalties payable to us will generally decrease as a result of reductions in the average selling prices of our licensees' products, unless offset by an increase in volumes. we anticipate that additional competitors will introduce products as a result of growth opportunities in wireless communications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in selected segments of the industry. we derive a significant portion of our consolidated revenues from a small number of customers and licensees. if revenues derived from these customers or licensees decrease or the timing of such revenues fluctuate, our operating results could be negatively affected. our qct segment derives a significant portion of revenues from a small number of customers, and we may be unable to further diversify our customer base. in addition, our industry is experiencing and may continue to experience an increasing concentration of device share among a few companies, and this trend may result in an increasing portion of our revenues being derived from a small number of customers. further, there has been and continues to be litigation among certain of our customers and other industry participants, and the potential outcomes of such litigation, including but not limited to injunctions against devices that incorporate our products, could impact our business. the loss of any one of our significant customers, a reduction in the purchases of our products by such customers, or the delay, even if only temporary, or cancellation of significant purchases from any of these customers would reduce our revenues in the period of the delay or cancellation and harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected operating results. further, concentration of device share among a few companies, and the corresponding purchasing power of these companies, may result in lower prices for our products which, if not accompanied by a sufficient increase in volume, could have an adverse effect on our revenues. in addition, the timing and size of purchases by our significant customers may be impacted by the timing of such customers' new or next generation product introductions, over which we have little or no control, and the timing of such introductions may cause our operating results to fluctuate. accordingly, unless and until our qct segment diversifies and expands its customer base, our future success will largely depend upon and be impacted by future purchases and the timing and size of any such future purchases by these customers. further, companies that provide hlos for devices, including large companies, such as microsoft and google, have entered the device market. if we fail to effectively partner with these companies, or their partners or their customers, they may decide not to purchase (either directly or through their contract manufacturers), or to reduce or discontinue their purchases of, our integrated circuit products. 15 although we have more than 220 licensees, our qtl segment derives a significant portion of licensing revenues from a limited number of licensees. our future success depends upon the ability of our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver high-volume products that achieve and sustain customer acceptance. we have little or no control over the sales efforts of our licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. reductions in the average selling price of wireless devices sold by our major licensees, without a sufficient increase in the volumes of such devices sold, could have an adverse effect on our revenues. our licensing revenues can be impacted by the deployment of other technologies in place of technologies based on cdma, ofdma and their derivatives, by the need to extend certain existing license agreements that are expiring and/or to cover additional later patents or by the success of our licensing programs for 4g single mode products and in emerging, machine-to-machine (m2m) services markets. although we own a very strong portfolio of issued and pending patents related to gsm, gprs, edge, ofdm, ofdma, wlan, multiple input, multiple output (mimo) and other technologies, our patent portfolio licensing program in these areas is less established and might not be as successful in generating licensing income as our cdma licensing program. many wireless operators are investigating or have selected lte (or to a lesser extent wimax) as their next-generation 4g technologies for deployment in existing or future wireless spectrum bands as complementary to their existing cdma-based networks. while multimode 3g/4g products are generally covered by existing 3g licensing agreements, products that implement 4g and do not implement 3g are generally not covered by existing 3g licensing agreements. although we believe that our patented technology is essential and useful to implementation of the lte and wimax industry standards and have granted royalty-bearing licenses to more than 30 companies (including lg, nokia and samsung) to make and sell products implementing 4g standards but not implementing 3g standards, the royalty rates for single mode 4g products are generally lower than our royalty rates for 3g and 3g/4g multimode products, and therefore, we might not achieve the same licensing revenues on such lte or wimax products as on 3g-based or multimode 3g/4g-based products. in addition, new connectivity services are emerging that rely on devices that may or may not be used on traditional cellular networks, such as devices used in gaming and the connected home. standards, even de facto standards, that develop as these technologies mature may impact our ability to obtain royalties that are equivalent to those that we receive for 3g products used in cellular communications. although we believe that our patented technology is essential and useful to the commercialization of such services, the royalties we receive may be lower than those we receive from our current licensing program. the licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date and, in a small number of agreements, royalties are payable on those patents for a specified time period. as a result, there are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us and/or royalties are not owed to us under such license agreements after the specified time period. in order to license or to obtain a license to such later patents, or to receive royalties after the specified time period, we will need to extend or modify such license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees. we might not be able to modify those license agreements, or enter into new license agreements, in the future without affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees, and such modifications or new agreements may impact our revenues. if we are unable to reach agreement on such modifications or new agreements, it could result in patent infringement litigation with such companies. efforts by some communications equipment manufacturers or their customers to avoid paying fair and reasonable royalties for the use of our intellectual property may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources and may result in legal decisions and/or actions by governments, courts, standards development organizations (sdos) or other industry organizations that harm our business. a small number of companies have initiated various strategies to attempt to renegotiate, mitigate and/or eliminate their need to pay royalties to us for the use of our intellectual property in order to negatively affect our business model and that of our other licensees. these strategies have included (i) litigation, often alleging infringement of patents held by such companies, patent misuse, patent exhaustion, and/or patent and/or license unenforceability, or some form of unfair competition, (ii) taking positions contrary to our understanding of their contracts with us, (iii) appeals to governmental authorities, (iv) collective action, including working with wireless operators, standards bodies, other like-minded companies and other organizations, on both formal and informal bases, to adopt intellectual property policies and practices that could have the effect of limiting returns on intellectual property innovations, and (v) lobbying governmental regulators and elected officials for the purpose of seeking the imposition of some form of compulsory licensing and/or to weaken a patent holder's ability to enforce its rights or obtain a fair return for such rights. some companies or entities have proposed significant changes to existing intellectual property policies for implementation by sdos and other industry organizations, some of which would require a maximum aggregate intellectual property royalty rate for the use of all essential patents owned by all of the member companies to be applied to the selling price of any product implementing the relevant standard. they have further proposed that such maximum aggregate royalty rate be apportioned to each member company with essential patents based upon the number of essential patents held by such company. others have proposed that injunctions not be an available remedy for infringement of essential patents and/or have made proposals that could severely limit damage awards and other remedies by courts for patent infringement (e.g., by severely limiting the base 16 upon which the royalty percentage may be applied). a number of these strategies are purportedly based on interpretations of the policies of certain sdos concerning the licensing of patents that are or may be essential to industry standards and our and/or other companies' alleged failure to abide by these policies. there is a risk that relevant courts or governmental agencies will interpret some or all of those proposals in a manner adverse to our interests or that some sdos may adopt such proposals as so-called clarifications or amendments to their intellectual property policies. if such proposals and strategies continue and are successful in the future, our business model would be harmed, either by artificially limiting our return on investment with respect to new technologies, limiting our ability to seek injunctions against infringers of our standards' essential patents, or forcing us to work outside of the sdos or such other industry groups to promote our new technologies, and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. as well, the legal and other costs associated with defending our position have been and continue to be significant. we assume that such challenges, regardless of their merits, will continue into the foreseeable future and may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources to explain and defend our position. other companies or entities have commenced, and may again commence, actions seeking to establish the invalidity of one or more of our patents. in the event that one or more of our patents are challenged, a court may invalidate the patent(s) or determine that the patent(s) is not enforceable, which could harm our competitive position. if our key patents are invalidated, or if the scope of the claims in any of these patents is limited by court decision, we could be prevented from licensing the invalidated or limited portion of such patents. such adverse decisions, depending upon their extent, could negatively impact our revenues. even if such a patent challenge is not successful, it could be expensive and time consuming to address, divert management attention from our business and harm our reputation. the enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive, could fail to prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary intellectual property rights, could result in the loss of our ability to enforce one or more patents or could be adversely affected by changes in patent laws, by laws in certain foreign jurisdictions that may not effectively protect our intellectual property rights or by ineffective enforcement of laws in such jurisdictions. we rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes, including our patent portfolio. policing unauthorized use of our products, technologies and proprietary information is difficult and time consuming. we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken, or may take in the future, will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary intellectual property rights as fully or as readily as united states laws or where the enforcement of such laws may be lacking or ineffective. some industry participants who have a vested interest in devaluing patents generally, or standards essential patents in particular, have mounted attacks on certain patent systems, increasing the likelihood of changes to established patent laws. in the united states, patents laws governing, among other things, the granting of patents and the enforcement of patents will change in march 2013 as a result of the leahy -smith america invents act. many observers anticipate that the european union will adopt a unitary patent system that may broadly impact that region ' patent regime in the near future. we cannot predict with certainty the long-term effects of these changes or proposed changes. in addition, w e cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country or the practices of any standards bodies, foreign or domestic, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing or the adoption of standards, will not be changed in the future in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. we may have difficulty in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights and/or contracts in a particular foreign jurisdiction due to, among others: challenges to our licensing practices under such jurisdictions' competition laws; adoption of mandatory licensing provisions by foreign jurisdictions (either with controlled/regulated royalties or royalty free); failure of foreign courts to recognize and enforce judgments of contract breach and damages issued by courts in the united states; and challenges pending before foreign competition agencies to the pricing and integration of additional features and functionality into our chipset products. we may need to litigate in the united states or elsewhere in the world to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. as a result of any such litigation, we could lose our ability to enforce one or more patents or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. any action we take to enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property could adversely affect our business. from time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights against our products or products using our technologies or other technologies used in our industry. these claims have resulted and may again result in our involvement in litigation. we may not prevail in such litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if any of our products were found to infringe on another company's intellectual property rights, we could be subject to an injunction or required to redesign our products, which could be costly, or to license such rights and/or pay damages or other compensation to such other company. if we were unable to redesign our products, license such intellectual property rights used in our products or otherwise distribute our products through a licensed 17 supplier, we could be prohibited from making and selling such products. in any potential dispute involving other companies' patents or other intellectual property, our chipset foundries, semiconductor assembly and test providers and customers could also become the targets of litigation. we are contingently liable under certain product sales, services, license and other agreements to indemnify certain customers against certain types of liability and/or damages arising from qualifying claims of patent infringement by products or services sold or provided by us. reimbursements under indemnification arrangements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. furthermore, any such litigation could severely disrupt the supply of our products and the businesses of our chipset customers and their customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our chipset sales and/or reductions in our licensees' sales, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. any claims, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming to address, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have an adverse effect upon our operating results. we expect that we may continue to be involved in litigation and may have to appear in front of administrative bodies (such as the u.s. international trade commission) to defend against patent assertions against our products by companies, some of whom are attempting to gain competitive advantage or leverage in licensing negotiations. we may not be successful in such proceedings, and if we are not, the range of possible outcomes includes everything from royalty payment to an injunction on the sale of certain of our integrated circuit products (and on the sale of our customers' devices using such products). any imposition of royalty payments might make purchases of our products less economical for our customers. a negative outcome in any such proceeding could severely disrupt the business of our chipset customers and their wireless operator customers, which in turn could harm our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our share of worldwide chipset sales and/or a reduction in our licensees' sales to wireless operators, causing corresponding declines in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. a number of other companies have claimed to own patents essential to various cdma standards, gsm standards and ofdma standards or implementations of systems based on such standards. if we or other product manufacturers are required to obtain additional licenses and/or pay royalties to one or more of such other patent holders, this could have an adverse effect on the commercial implementation of our products and technologies, average sales prices of and demand for our licensees' products and our results of operations. we depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for our procurement, manufacture and testing of product inventories. if we fail to execute supply strategies that provide competitive advantage in terms of supply assurance, technology leadership and cost, our operating results and our business may be harmed. our qct segment purchases raw materials, component parts, subassemblies and specialized manufacturing equipment from third-party suppliers and contracts with separate suppliers for probe, assembly, test and other services in the manufacture of product inventories. a reduction, interruption, delay or limitation in our product supply source, a failure by our suppliers to provide or allocate adequate manufacturing or test capacity for our products or their inability to react to shifts in product demand or an increase in raw material or component prices could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands, our business and/or our profitability. the loss of a supplier or the inability of a supplier to meet performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers and negatively impact our revenues, business operations and ability to compete for future business. in the event of a loss of or a decision to change a supplier, qualifying a new foundry supplier and commencing volume production or testing could cause us to incur additional expense and production delays, resulting in possible loss of customers. while we have established alternate suppliers for certain technologies that we consider critical, we rely on sole- or limited-source suppliers for some products, subjecting us to significant risks, including: possible shortages of raw materials or manufacturing capacity; poor product performance; and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability and yields, quality assurance, quantity and costs. to the extent we have established alternate suppliers, these suppliers may require significant levels of support to bring complex technologies to production. as a result, we may invest a significant amount of effort and resources in supporting, and incur higher costs to maintain, such alternate suppliers. our arrangements with our suppliers may oblige us to incur costs to manufacture and test our products that do not decrease at the same rate as decreases in pricing to our customers. the ability of our suppliers to develop or maintain leading process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies, and to effectively compete with the manufacturing performance of our competition, could also impact our ability to meet customer demand, increase our operating expenses and subject us to the risk of excess inventories. our inability to meet customer demand due to sole- or limited-sourcing and/or the additional operating expenses that we incur because of these or other supply constraints or because of the need to support alternate suppliers could negatively impact our business, our revenues and our results of operations. although we have long-term contracts with our suppliers, many of these contracts do not provide for long-term capacity commitments. to the extent that we do not have firm commitments from our suppliers over a specific time period, or for any specific quantity, our suppliers may allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production and testing of products for their other customers while reducing or limiting capacity to manufacture or test our products. accordingly, capacity for our 18 products may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. to the extent we do obtain long-term capacity commitments, we may incur additional costs related to those commitments. as an example, we experienced capacity limitations from our suppliers related to 28 nanometer integrated circuits, resulting in supply constraints and our inability to meet certain customer demand during fiscal 2012. even as we continue to increase our supply of 28 nanometer integrated circuits, we may still experience supply shortages for our 28 nanometer integrated circuit products during the early part of fiscal 2013. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, increased operating expenses as we facilitate additional supply. one or more of our suppliers or potential alternate suppliers may manufacture cdma- or ofdma-based integrated circuits that compete with our products. in this event, the supplier could elect to allocate raw materials and manufacturing capacity to their own products and reduce or limit deliveries to us to our detriment. in addition, we may not receive reasonable pricing, manufacturing or delivery terms. we cannot guarantee that the actions of our suppliers will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost of sales. global economic conditions that impact the communications industry could negatively affect the demand for our products and our customers ' products, which may negatively affect our revenues. a decline in global economic conditions, particularly in geographic regions with high customer concentrations, could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products of our customers, particularly equipment manufacturers or others in the wireless communications industry who buy their products, such as wireless operators. any prolonged economic crisis may result in a downturn in demand for our products or technology; the insolvency of key suppliers; delays in reporting and/or payments from our licensees and/or customers; failures by counterparties; and negative effects on wireless device inventories. in addition, our direct and indirect customers' ability to purchase or pay for our products and services, obtain financing and upgrade wireless networks could be adversely affected by economic conditions, leading to a reduction, cancellation or delay of orders for our products. our stock price and earnings are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market downturns. both the market price of our common stock and our earnings have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future as well. factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock and/or earnings include, among others: volatility of the stock market in general and technology-based companies in particular that is often unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company; announcements concerning us or our competitors, including the selection of wireless communications technology by wireless operators and the timing of the roll-out of those systems; international developments, such as technology mandates, political developments or changes in economic policies; changes in recommendations of securities analysts; earnings (or forecasts) that fail to meet financial guidance that we provided to investors or the expectations of investment analysts or investors; proprietary rights, product or patent litigation taken or threatened against us or against our customers or licensees; strategic transactions, such as spin-offs, acquisitions and divestitures; unexpected and/or significant changes in the average selling price of our licensees' products and our products; unresolved disputes with licensees that result in non-payment and/or non-recognition of royalty revenues that may be owed to us; declines in the value or performance of our significant marketable securities portfolio, which is subject to financial market volatility and liquidity, interest rate, credit and other risks; or inquiries, rumors or allegations regarding our financial disclosures, practices or compliance programs. in the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. due to changes in our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. securities litigation could result in substantial uninsured costs and divert management's attention and resources. we may engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make strategic investments that could adversely affect our financial results or fail to enhance stockholder value. we engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make strategic investments with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. we acquire businesses and other assets, including wireless spectrum, patents and other intangible assets, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase minority equity interests in or make loans to companies that are generally 19 private and early-stage. our strategic activities are focused on expanding the wireless industry and promoting the global adoption of cdma, ofdma or other technologies and related services to enhance our stockholder value. many of our acquisitions or strategic investments entail a high degree of risk, and investments may not become liquid for several years after the date of the investment, if at all. our acquisitions or strategic investments (either those we have completed or may undertake in the future) may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies. in some cases, we may be required to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of companies in which we have acquired ownership interests. in addition, we may record impairment charges related to our strategic investments or other strategic assets, such as wireless spectrum and other intangible assets. any losses or impairment charges that we incur related to strategic investments or other transactions will have a negative impact on our financial results, and we may continue to incur new or additional losses related to strategic assets or investments that we have not fully impaired or exited. achieving the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions depends in part upon our ability to integrate the acquired businesses in an efficient and effective manner. the integration of companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, including, among others: retaining key employees; successfully integrating new employees, business systems and technology; retaining customers and suppliers of the acquired business; minimizing the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business matters; coordinating geographically separate organizations; consolidating research and development operations; and consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. we may not derive any commercial value from acquired technology, products and intellectual property or from future technologies and products based on the acquired technology and/or intellectual property, and we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by indemnification protection we may obtain or become subject to litigation. additionally, we may not be successful in expanding into geographic regions and/or categories of products served by or adjacent to an acquired business and in addressing potential new opportunities that may arise out of the combination. due to our inexperience with products of and/or geographic regions served by acquired businesses, we may overestimate the benefits, including product and other synergies and growth opportunities that we expect to realize, and we may not achieve them. if we do not achieve the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions, our results of operations may be adversely affected, and we may not enhance stockholder value by engaging in these transactions. our qmt division ' business does not currently generate operating income and may not succeed or its operating results may not meet our expectations. while we continue to believe our qmt division's next generation imod display technology will offer compelling advantages to users of displays, other technologies may continue to improve in ways that reduce the advantages we anticipate. sales of flat panel displays are currently dominated, and we believe will likely continue to be dominated for some time, by displays based on liquid crystal display (lcd) technology. numerous companies are making substantial investments in, and conducting research to improve characteristics of, lcds. additionally, numerous companies have started investing in another flat panel display technology called organic light-emitting diode (oled), which provides comparable performance to high end lcds. in each case, advances in lcd or other flat panel display technologies, such as oled, could result in technologies that are more cost effective, have fewer display limitations or can be brought to market faster than our imod technology. these advances in competing technologies might cause device manufacturers to avoid entering into or continuing licensing and/or commercial relationships with us. during fiscal 2012, we updated the business plan and related internal forecasts for our qmt division to reflect a focus on licensing our next generation imod display technology while directly commercializing only certain imod products. we may not evolve our qmt division into a successful licensing business or imod product supplier if we are unable to develop our imod display technology to meet market demands or to cost-effectively manufacture and commercialize our imod products, among other factors. in addition, we have limited experience commercializing imod products, and we may be unsuccessful in selling such products. our qmt division had $1.2 billion in assets (including $136 million in goodwill) at september 30, 2012. if we do not expect to achieve or do not achieve the cash flows anticipated in qmt's business plan, our assets may become impaired, negatively impacting our operating results, and we may not meet future earnings projections related to this business. currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues, harm our ability to collect receivables or increase the u.s. dollar cost of the activities of our foreign subsidiaries and international strategic investments. our international customers sell their products throughout the world in various currencies. consolidated revenues from international customers as a percentage of total revenues were greater than 90% in each of the last three fiscal years. adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business and our operating results due to a number of factors, including, among others: our products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold outside the united states may become less price-competitive; certain of our revenues, such as royalties, that are derived from licensee or customer sales that are denominated in foreign currencies could decrease; 20 foreign exchange hedging transactions that we engage in to reduce the impact of currency fluctuations may require the payment of structuring fees, limit the u.s. dollar value of royalties from licensees' sales that are denominated in foreign currencies, cause earnings volatility if the hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting and expose us to counterparty risk if the counterparty fails to perform; we may need additional cash to settle our loan and debenture obligations that are denominated in indian rupees and the related interest; the u.s. dollar value of our marketable securities that are denominated directly or indirectly in foreign currencies may decline; and labor and the cost of goods in currencies other than the u.s. dollar may increase, resulting in higher than expected costs. failures in our products and services or in the products of our customers, including those resulting from security vulnerabilities, defects or errors, could harm our business. the use of devices containing our products to access untrusted content creates a risk of exposing the system software in those devices to viral or malicious attacks. while we continue to expand our focus on this issue and are taking measures to safeguard our products from cybersecurity threats, device capabilities continue to evolve in a 3g/4g environment, enabling more data and processes, such as mobile computing, and increasing the risk of security failures. further, our products are inherently complex and may contain defects or errors that are detected only when the products are in use. for example, as our chipset product complexities increase, we are required to migrate to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes. the design process interface issues are more complex as we enter into these new domains of technology, which adds risk to manufacturing yields and reliability. manufacturing, testing, marketing and use of our products and those of our customers and licensees entail the risk of product liability. because our products and services are responsible for critical functions in our customers' products and/or networks, security failures, defects or errors in our components, materials or software or in our customers' products could have an adverse impact on us, on our customers and on the end users of their products. such adverse impact could include product liability claims or recalls, a decrease in demand for connected devices and wireless services, damage to our reputation and to our customer relationships and other financial liability or harm to our business. our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches. attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated. these attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. we seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. while we have identified several incidents of unauthorized access, none have caused material damage to our business. the theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. to the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers' or licensees' confidential information, we may incur liability. we expect to devote additional resources to the security of our information technology systems. potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could materially differ from amounts reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. in such case, our income tax provision and results of operations in the period or periods in which that determination is made could be negatively affected. during the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we established our qct segment's non-united states headquarters in singapore. we obtained tax incentives in singapore, including a tax exemption for the first five years provided that we meet specified employment and incentive criteria in singapore. our singapore tax rate is expected to increase in fiscal 2017 and again in fiscal 2027 as a result of expiration of these incentives. if we do not meet the criteria required to benefit from such incentives, our results of operations may be adversely affected. tax rules may change in a manner that adversely affects our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. for example, we consider the operating earnings of certain non-united states subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the united states based on current needs for those earnings to be reinvested offshore as well as estimates that future domestic cash generation will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs for the foreseeable future. no provision has been made for united states federal and state or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of 21 these foreign subsidiaries. our future financial results and liquidity may be adversely affected if tax rules regarding unrepatriated earnings change, if domestic cash needs require us to repatriate foreign earnings, or if the united states international tax rules change as part of comprehensive tax reform or other tax legislation. if wireless devices pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our products and those of our customers and licensees may decrease. concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions continue. interest groups have requested that the fcc investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with, among other things, airbags, hearing aids and medical devices. legislation that may be adopted in response to these concerns or adverse news or findings about safety risks could reduce demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers in the united states as well as in foreign countries. we are subject to government regulations. our business may suffer as a result of changes in laws or regulations, our failure or inability to comply with laws or regulations or adverse rulings in enforcement or other proceedings. our products and services, and those of our customers and licensees, are subject to various laws and regulations globally, as well as the specifications of international, national and regional communications standards bodies. the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes in the regulation of our activities by a government or standards body, including, among others, those affecting the use of our technology or products, trade, foreign investments, licensing practices, spectrum availability and license issuance, adoption of standards, the provision of device subsidies by wireless operators to their customers, taxation, environmental protection, loans and employment, could have an adverse effect on our business. national, state and local environmental laws and regulations affect our operations around the world. these laws may make it more expensive to manufacture, have manufactured and sell products. our costs could also increase if our vendors (e.g., third-party manufacturers or utility companies) pass on their costs to us. it may also be difficult to comply with laws and regulations in a timely manner, and we may not have compliant products available in the quantities requested by our customers, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. one of our subsidiaries in india holds broadband wireless access (bwa) spectrum that will be used to operate a wireless network. bharti airtel limited (bharti), an indian wireless network operator, holds a 49% interest in this and other subsidiaries formed to operate the wireless network (the bwa subsidiaries). our license to use the bwa spectrum is subject to minimum build-out requirements to be met within 5 years, by may 2017. if we do not meet these requirements, the government of india's department of telecommunications could impose a fine or could rescind the license in the area(s) in which the build-out requirements are not met. there are also other contingencies, including unexpected regulatory delays or conditions, which could adversely impact our ability to successfully and timely exit the bwa subsidiaries as anticipated. the sec has recently adopted disclosure rules for companies that use conflict minerals in their products, with substantial supply chain verification requirements in the event that the materials come from, or could have come from, the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining countries. these new rules and verification requirements, which will apply to our activities in calendar 2013, will impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers, and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products. further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed. laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, business conduct, public disclosure and health care are complex and changing and may create uncertainty regarding compliance. laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases, and their application in practice may evolve over time. as a result, our efforts to comply may fail, particularly if there is ambiguity as to how they should be applied in practice. new laws, regulations and standards or evolving interpretations of legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and/or procedures and may divert management time and attention to compliance activities. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. in addition, implementing our product and business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, and our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. the market for employees in our industry is extremely competitive. further, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the united states, making the pool of available talent even smaller. we continue to anticipate increases in human resource needs, particularly in engineering. if we are unable to attract and retain the qualified employees, our business may be harmed. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. we invest a portion of our cash in a number of diversified investment- and non-investment-grade fixed and floating rate securities, consisting of cash equivalents, marketable debt securities, debt funds and derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps. changes in the general level of united states interest rates can affect the principal values and yields of fixed interest-bearing securities and the fair value of interest rate swaps held in connection with our marketable securities portfolios classified as trading. if interest rates in the general economy were to rise rapidly in a short period of time, our fixed interest-bearing securities could lose value. when the general economy weakens significantly, the credit profile, financial strength and growth prospects of certain issuers of interest-bearing securities held in our investment portfolios may deteriorate, and our interest-bearing securities may lose value either temporarily or other than temporarily. we may implement investment strategies of different types with varying duration and risk/return trade-offs that do not perform well. 40 the following table provides information about our interest-bearing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and loans and debentures that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. the table presents principal cash flows, weighted-average yield at cost and contractual maturity dates. we have assumed that the interest-bearing securities are similar enough within the specified categories to aggregate the securities for presentation purposes. additionally, the table provides information about our derivative instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for such securities, the table presents the notional amount, weighted-average yield and contractual maturity. interest rate sensitivity principal or notional amount by expected maturity average interest rates (dollars in millions) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter no single maturity total fixed interest-bearing securities: cash and cash equivalents $ 793 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 793 interest rate 0.3 % trading securities $ 232 $ 391 $ 43 $ 46 $ 49 $ 136 $ 568 $ 1,465 interest rate 0.6 % 3.2 % 3.2 % 5.8 % 4.0 % 2.7 % 3.1 % other marketable securities $ 1,314 $ 1,283 $ 1,979 $ 893 $ 1,041 $ 2,611 $ 3,064 $ 12,185 interest rate 1.2 % 2.3 % 1.8 % 3.4 % 2.9 % 6.3 % 1.5 % time deposits $ 47 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 47 interest rate 1.6 % interest rate swaps (receive) $ $ $ $ $ 20 $ 20 $ $ 40 interest rate 1.8 % 4.8 % interest rate swaps (pay) $ $ $ $ $ $ 17 $ $ 17 interest rate 2.1 % floating interest-bearing securities: cash and cash equivalents $ 1,925 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,925 interest rate 0.2 % trading securities $ $ 10 $ $ $ $ 2 $ 72 $ 84 interest rate 1.7 % 6.4 % 2.3 % other marketable securities $ 626 $ 1,345 $ 200 $ 193 $ 428 $ 1,164 $ 2,127 $ 6,083 interest rate 1.2 % 1.5 % 3.7 % 4.3 % 5.5 % 6.3 % 5.6 % interest rate swaps (receive) $ $ $ $ $ $ 17 $ $ 17 interest rate 0.4 % interest rate swaps (pay) $ $ $ $ $ 20 $ 20 $ $ 40 interest rate 1.3 % 3.3 % loans and debentures (1) $ 1,064 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,064 interest rate 10.2 % (1) denominated in indian rupees. cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities are recorded at fair value. the loans and debentures approximate fair value. the debentures can be redeemed by us without penalty on certain dates. additionally, each holder has the right to demand redemption of its portion of the debentures outstanding on june 25, 2013 subject to sufficient prior written notice. equity price risk. we hold a diversified marketable securities portfolio that includes equity securities and fund shares that are subject to equity price risk. we have made investments in marketable equity securities of companies of varying size, style, industry and geography, and changes in investment allocations may affect the price volatility of our investments. a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and fund shares at september 30, 2012 would cause a decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities of $321 million. at september 30, 2012 , gross unrealized losses of our marketable equity securities and fund shares were $14 million. although we consider these unrealized losses to be temporary, there is a risk that we may incur net other-than-temporary impairment charges or realized losses on the values of these securities if they do 41 not recover in value within a reasonable period. foreign exchange risk. we manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial counterparties. we utilize such derivative financial instruments for hedging or risk management purposes rather than for speculation purposes. counterparties to our derivative contracts are all major institutions. in the event of the financial insolvency or distress of a counterparty to our derivative financial instruments, we may be unable to settle transactions if the counterparty does not provide us with sufficient collateral to secure its net settlement obligations to us, which could have a negative impact on our results. at september 30, 2012 , we had a net asset of $1 million related to foreign currency option contracts that were designated as hedges of foreign currency risk on royalties earned from certain licensees on their sales of cdma-based devices. if our forecasted royalty revenues were to decline by 20% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in our hedged foreign currency, we would not incur a loss. see notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1. the company and its significant accounting policies for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies. at september 30, 2012 , we had a net asset of $4 million related to foreign currency forward contracts that were designated as hedges of foreign currency risk on intercompany payments of operating expenditures relating to a wholly-owned foreign subsidiary. if our forecasted operating expenditures were to decline by 20% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in each of our hedged foreign currencies, we would not incur a loss. at september 30, 2012 , we had a net liability that was negligible related to foreign currency forwards, futures, options and swaps that were not designated as hedging instruments related to our marketable securities portfolios classified as trading. if the foreign exchange rates relevant to these contracts were to change unfavorably by 10% and we do not have an offset foreign currency exposure relating to debt instruments held in our marketable securities portfolios classified as trading, we would incur a loss of $2 million. at september 30, 2012 , we had floating-rate bank loans and debentures in the aggregate of $1.1 billion, which are payable in full in indian rupees in december 2012 and june 2017, respectively. the loans and debentures are payable in the functional currency of our consolidated subsidiaries that are party to the loans and debentures; however, we are subject to foreign currency translation risk, which may impact our liability for principal repayment and interest expense that we will record in the future. if the foreign currency exchange rate were to change unfavorably by 20%, we would incur additional principal of $262 million and interest cost of $12 million through the remainder of the contractual terms of the loans and debentures. financial instruments held by consolidated subsidiaries that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. as a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. as a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. while we may hedge certain transactions with non-united states customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate the risks discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks.risk factors 12 risk factors you should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this annual report in evaluating our business and our prospects. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and 12 uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. you should also refer to the other information set forth in this annual report, including our financial statements and the related notes. risks related to our businesses our revenues depend on the commercial deployment of cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies, continuing growth in our customers' and licensees' sales of products and services based on these technologies and our ability to continue to drive customer demand for our products and services based on these technologies. we develop, patent and commercialize technology and products based on cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies. we depend on our customers, licensees, operators of cdma- and ofdma-based wireless networks and other industries to use our technologies, and on the timing of their deployment of new products and services, and they may incur lower gross margins on products or services based on these technologies than on products and services based on alternative technologies. we also depend on our customers and licensees to develop products and services with value-added features to drive selling prices as well as consumer demand for new 3g and 3g/4g devices. our revenues and/or growth in revenues could be negatively impacted, our business may be harmed and our substantial investments in these technologies may not provide us an adequate return, if: wireless operators and other industries deploy alternative technologies; wireless operators delay 3g and/or 3g/4g multimode network deployments, expansions or upgrades and/or delay moving 2g customers to 3g, 3g/4g multimode or 4g wireless devices; lte, an ofdma-based 4g wireless technology, is not more widely deployed or commercial deployment is delayed; government regulators delay the reallocation of 2g spectrum to allow wireless operators to upgrade their networks to 3g, thereby restricting the expansion of 3g/4g wireless connectivity; wireless operators are unable to drive improvements in 3g or 3g/4g multimode network performance and/or capacity; our customers' and licensees' sales of products and services using these technologies, particularly premium-tier device products, do not grow or do not grow as quickly as anticipated; or we are unable to drive the adoption of our products and services into networks and devices based on cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies. our industry is subject to competition in an environment of rapid technological change that could result in decreased demand and/or declining average selling prices for our products and those of our customers and/or licensees and/or result in placing new specifications or requirements on our products, each of which could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. our products, services and technologies face significant competition, and the revenues they generate or the timing of their deployment, which may depend on the actions of others, may not meet expectations. competition in the communications industry is affected by various factors that include, among others: evolving industry standards and business models; evolving methods of transmission for voice and data communications; networking and connectivity trends; evolving nature of computing (including demand for always on, always connected capabilities); rapid technological change; value-added features that drive selling prices as well as consumer demand for new 3g and 3g/4g devices; turnkey, integrated products that incorporate hardware, software, user interface, applications and reference designs; rapid growth in mobile data consumption; device manufacturer concentrations; growth in emerging geographic regions; scalability; and the ability of the system technology to meet customers' immediate and future network requirements. we anticipate that additional competitors will introduce products as a result of growth opportunities in wireless communications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in selected segments of the industry. our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to: develop innovative, differentiated integrated circuit products at competitive cost and price points for emerging and developed geographic regions and across device tiers (e.g., premium- and low-tier smartphones); increase and/or accelerate demand for our integrated circuit products and drive their adoption into the most popular device models, particularly premium-tier models, and across a broad spectrum of devices, such as smartphones, tablets, e-readers, gaming devices and other mobile computing and connected devices; strengthen our integrated circuit product roadmap for, and develop channel relationships in, emerging geographic regions, such as china and india, and provide turnkey products for low-tier smartphones; 13 be a preferred partner (and sustain preferred relationships) providing integrated circuit products that support multiple operating system platforms to the partners that effectively commercialize new devices using these platforms; continue to be a leader in 4g technology evolution, including expansion of our ofdma-based single mode licensing program, and continue to innovate and introduce 4g turnkey, integrated products and services that differentiate us from our competition; be a leader serving original equipment manufacturers, high level operating systems (hlos) providers, operators and other industry participants as competitors, new market entrants and other factors continue to affect the industry landscape; increase and/or accelerate demand for our wired and wireless connectivity products, including networking products for consumers, carriers and enterprise equipment and connected devices; become a leading supplier of small cell technology (which allows inexpensive cell sites deployed by users to connect to traditional cellular networks through wired internet connections) to enable significant network capacity expansion to meet anticipated growth in mobile data traffic; continue to develop brand recognition to effectively compete against better known companies in mobile computing and other consumer driven segments and to deepen our presence in significant emerging geographic regions; and/or create stand-alone value and/or contribute to the success of our existing businesses through investments in new industry segments and/or disruptive technologies, including new display technologies, wireless charging, mobile health, mobile location awareness and commerce, the connected home and the internet of everything, among others. competition and/or the introduction and growth in sales of low-tier products, particularly relative to premium-tier products, may reduce average selling prices for our chipset products and the products of our customers and licensees. this dynamic is particularly pronounced in emerging geographic regions. reductions in the average selling prices of our chipset products, without corresponding decreases in average unit costs, would negatively impact our margins. in addition, total royalties payable to us would generally decrease, negatively impacting our revenues, as a result of reductions in the average selling prices of our licensees' products, unless offset by an increase in volumes. companies that promote standards that are neither cdma- nor ofdma-based (e.g., gsm) as well as companies that design integrated circuits based on cdma, ofdma or their derivatives are generally competitors or potential competitors. examples (some of which are strategic partners of ours in other areas) include broadcom, ericsson, fujitsu, hisilicon technologies, intel, lantiq, marvell technology, maxim integrated products, mediatek, nvidia, realtek semiconductor, samsung electronics, spreadtrum communications, texas instruments and via telecom. some of these current and potential competitors have advantages over us that include, among others: motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to find alternate suppliers; foreign government support of other technologies or competitors; more extensive relationships with local distribution companies and original equipment manufacturers in emerging geographic regions (e.g., china); lower cost structures; and/or a more established presence in certain device markets. certain of our software and our suppliers' software may contain or may be derived from open source software, and we have seen, and believe we will continue to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including software associated with our integrated circuit products, that incorporate open source software elements and operate in an open source environment, which, under certain open source licenses, may offer accessibility to a portion of a product's source code and may expose related intellectual property to adverse licensing conditions. licensing of such software may impose certain obligations on us if we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. for example, these obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to our customers in a manner that allows them to make such source code available to their customers, or license such derivative works under a particular type of license that is different than what we customarily use to license our software. developing open source products, while adequately protecting the intellectual property rights upon which our licensing business depends, may prove burdensome and time-consuming under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage for new product designs. also, our use and our customers' use of open source software may subject our products and our customers' products to governmental scrutiny and delays in product certification, which could cause customers to view our products as less desirable than our competitors' products. while we believe we have taken appropriate steps and employed adequate controls to protect our intellectual property rights, our use of open source software presents risks that could have an adverse effect on these rights and on our business. we derive a significant portion of our consolidated revenues from a small number of customers and licensees. if revenues derived from these customers or licensees decrease or the timing of such revenues fluctuate, our operating results could be negatively affected. our qct segment derives a significant portion of revenues from a small number of customers, and we may be unable to further diversify our customer base. in addition, our industry is experiencing and may continue to experience an increasing 14 concentration of device share among a few companies, and this trend may result in an increasing portion of our revenues being derived from a small number of customers. the loss of any one of our significant customers, a reduction in the purchases of our products by such customers or cancelation of significant purchases from any of these customers would reduce our revenues and could harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected operating results, and a delay of significant purchases, even if only temporary, would reduce our revenues in the period of the delay. further, concentration of device share among a few companies, and the corresponding purchasing power of these companies, may result in lower prices for our products which, if not accompanied by a sufficient increase in the volume of purchases of our products, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and margins. in addition, the timing and size of purchases by our significant customers may be impacted by the timing of such customers' new or next generation product introductions, over which we have little or no control, and the timing of such introductions may cause our operating results to fluctuate. accordingly, if current industry dynamics and concentrations continue, our qct segment's revenues will continue to depend largely upon, and be impacted by, future purchases and the timing and size of any such future purchases by these significant customers. further, companies that provide hlos for devices, including leading technology companies, have entered the device market. if we fail to effectively partner with these companies, or their partners or customers, they may decide not to purchase (either directly or through their contract manufacturers), or to reduce or discontinue their purchases of, our integrated circuit products. in addition, there has been and continues to be litigation among certain of our customers and other industry participants, and the potential outcomes of such litigation, including but not limited to injunctions against devices that incorporate our products or rulings on certain patent law issues that create new legal precedent, could impact our business. although we have more than 250 cdma-based licensees, our qtl segment derives a significant portion of licensing revenues from a limited number of licensees. moreover, the future growth and success of our core licensing business will depend in part on the ability of our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver high-volume products that achieve and sustain customer acceptance. we have little or no control over the product development or sales efforts of our licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. reductions in the average selling prices of wireless devices sold by our major licensees, without a sufficient increase in the volumes of such devices sold, would generally have an adverse effect on our revenues. the continued and future success of our licensing programs can be impacted by the deployment of other technologies in place of technologies based on cdma, ofdma and their derivatives; the need to extend certain existing license agreements that are expiring and/or to cover additional later patents; and/or the success of our licensing programs for 4g single mode products and emerging industry segments. although we own a very strong portfolio of issued and pending patents related to gsm, gprs, edge, ofdm, ofdma, wlan, mimo and other technologies, our patent portfolio licensing program in these areas is less established and might not be as successful in generating licensing revenues as our cdma licensing program. many wireless operators are investigating or have selected ofdma-based lte as their next-generation 4g technology for deployment in existing or future wireless spectrum bands as complementary to their existing cdma-based networks. while 3g/4g multimode products are generally covered by existing 3g licensing agreements, products that implement 4g and do not implement 3g are generally not covered by existing 3g licensing agreements. although we believe that our patented technology is essential and useful to implementation of the lte industry standards and have granted royalty-bearing licenses to more than 90 companies (including lg, nokia, samsung, sony mobile and zte) that have realized that they need a license under our patents to make and sell products implementing 4g standards but not implementing 3g standards, the royalty rates for single mode 4g products are generally lower than our royalty rates for 3g and 3g/4g multimode products, and therefore, we might not achieve the same licensing revenues on such lte products as on 3g or 3g/4g multimode products. in addition, new connectivity services are emerging that rely on devices that may or may not be used on traditional cellular networks, such as devices used in the connected home or the internet of everything. standards, even de facto standards, that develop as these technologies mature, in particular those that do not include a base level of interoperability, may impact our ability to obtain royalties that are equivalent to those that we receive for 3g products used in cellular communications. although we believe that our patented technology is essential and useful to the commercialization of such services, the royalties we receive may be lower than those we receive from our current licensing program. over the long-term, we need to continue to evolve our patent portfolio. if we do not maintain a strong portfolio that is applicable to current and/or future products and/or services, our future licensing revenues could be negatively impacted. the licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date and, in a small number of agreements, royalties are payable on those patents for a specified time period. as a result, there are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us and/or royalties are not owed to us under such license agreements after the specified time period. in order to license or to obtain a license to such later patents, or to receive royalties after the specified time period, we will need to extend or modify such license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees. we might not be able to modify those license agreements, or enter into 15 new license agreements, in the future without affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees, and such modifications or new agreements may negatively impact our revenues. if we are unable to reach agreement on such modifications or new agreements, it could result in patent infringement litigation with such companies. efforts by some communications equipment manufacturers or their customers to avoid paying fair and reasonable royalties for the use of our intellectual property may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources and may result in legal decisions and/or actions by governments, courts, regulators or agencies, standards development organizations (sdos) or other industry organizations that harm our business. from time to time, companies initiate various strategies to attempt to renegotiate, mitigate and/or eliminate their need to pay royalties to us for the use of our intellectual property. these strategies have included: (i) litigation, often alleging infringement of patents held by such companies, patent misuse, patent exhaustion, patent invalidity and/or patent and/or license unenforceability, or some form of unfair competition; (ii) taking positions contrary to our understanding of their contracts with us; (iii) appeals to governmental authorities; (iv) collective action, including working with wireless operators, standards bodies, other like-minded companies and other organizations, on both formal and informal bases, to adopt intellectual property policies and practices that could have the effect of limiting returns on intellectual property innovations; and (v) lobbying governmental regulators and elected officials for the purpose of seeking the imposition of some form of compulsory licensing and/or to weaken a patent holder's ability to enforce its rights or obtain a fair return for such rights. in addition, in connection with our participation in sdos, we, like other patent owners, generally make contractual commitments to such organizations to license those of our patents that would be infringed by standard-compliant products on terms that are fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory (frand). some manufacturers and users of standard-compliant products advance interpretations of these frand commitments that are adverse to our licensing business, including interpretations that would limit the amount of royalties that we could collect on the licensing of our patent portfolio. further, some companies or entities have proposed significant changes to existing intellectual property policies for implementation by sdos and other industry organizations with the goal of significantly devaluing standards-essential patents. for example, some have put forth proposals which would require a maximum aggregate intellectual property royalty rate for the use of all essential patents owned by all of the member companies to be applied to the selling price of any product implementing the relevant standard. they have further proposed that such maximum aggregate royalty rate be apportioned to each member company with essential patents based upon the number of essential patents held by such company. others have proposed that injunctions not be an available remedy for infringement of essential patents and/or have made proposals that could severely limit damage awards and other remedies by courts for patent infringement (e.g., by severely limiting the base upon which the royalty percentage may be applied). a number of these strategies are purportedly based on interpretations of the policies of certain sdos concerning the licensing of patents that are or may be essential to industry standards and on our and/or other companies' alleged failure to abide by these policies. some courts and governmental agencies have adopted and may in the future adopt some or all of these interpretations or proposals in a manner adverse to our interests, and sdos may adopt such interpretations or proposals as so-called clarifications or amendments to their intellectual property policies. we expect that such proposals, interpretations and strategies will continue in the future, and if successful in the future, our business model would be harmed, either by limiting or eliminating our ability to collect royalties on all or a portion of our patent portfolio, limiting our return on investment with respect to new technologies, limiting our ability to seek injunctions against infringers of our standards-essential patents, or forcing us to work outside of sdos or other industry groups to promote our new technologies, and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. in addition, the legal and other costs associated with asserting or defending our positions have been and continue to be significant. we assume that such challenges, regardless of their merits, will continue into the foreseeable future and may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources. the enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive, could fail to prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary intellectual property rights, could result in the loss of our ability to enforce one or more patents, or could be adversely affected by changes in patent laws, by laws in certain foreign jurisdictions that may not effectively protect our intellectual property rights or by ineffective enforcement of laws in such jurisdictions. we rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes, including our patent portfolio. policing unauthorized use of our products, technologies and proprietary information is difficult and time consuming. we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken, or may take in the future, will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary intellectual property rights as fully or as readily as united states laws or where the enforcement of such laws may be lacking or ineffective. some industry participants who have a vested interest in devaluing patents in general, or standards essential patents in particular, have mounted attacks on certain patent systems, increasing the likelihood of changes to 16 established patent laws. in the united states, there is continued discussion regarding potential patent law changes. many observers anticipate that in the next few years the european union will adopt a unitary patent system that may broadly impact that region's patent regime. we cannot predict with certainty the long-term effects of any potential changes. in addition, we cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country or the practices of any standards bodies, foreign or domestic, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing or the adoption of standards, will not be changed in the future in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. we have had, and may continue to have, difficulty in certain circumstances in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights and/or contracts, including collecting royalties for use of our patent portfolio in particular foreign jurisdictions due to, among others: policies of foreign governments; challenges to our licensing practices under such jurisdictions' competition laws; adoption of mandatory licensing provisions by foreign jurisdictions (either with controlled/regulated royalties or royalty free); failure of foreign courts to recognize and enforce judgments of contract breach and damages issued by courts in the united states; and/or challenges pending before foreign competition agencies to the pricing and integration of additional features and functionality into our chipset products. we may need to litigate in the united states or elsewhere in the world to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. as a result of any such litigation, we could lose our ability to enforce one or more patents or incur substantial unexpected operating costs. any action we take to enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. our research, development and other investments in new technologies, products and services may not generate operating income or contribute to future operating results that meet our expectations. our industry is subject to rapid technological change, and we must make substantial research, development and other investments in new products, services and technologies to compete successfully. technological innovations generally require significant research and development efforts before they are commercially viable. we intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing new products, services and technologies that we believe can create stand-alone value and/or contribute to the success of our existing businesses, and it is possible that these initiatives will not be successful and/or will not result in meaningful revenues or generate operating income that meets expectations. while we continue to focus our development efforts primarily in support of 3g cdma- and 4g ofdma-based technologies, we innovate across a broad spectrum of opportunities that leverage our existing technical and business expertise to deploy new business models and enter into new industry segments. our recent investment initiatives relate to, among others, new display technologies, wireless charging technology, small cell technology and the 1000x data challenge, proximity-based communications, very high speed connectivity, mobile location awareness and commerce, mobile health, wearable technology, gaming and products for the connected home, the digital 6th sense and the internet of everything. our research, development and other investments in new technologies, products or services may not succeed due to, among others: improvements in alternate technologies in ways that reduce the advantages we anticipate from our investments; competitors' products or services being more cost effective, having more capabilities or fewer limitations or being brought to market faster than our new products and services; and competitors having longer operating histories in industry segments that are new to us. we may also underestimate the costs of or overestimate the future operating income and/or margins that could result from these investments; and these investments may not, or may take many years to, generate material returns. if our new technologies, products or services are not successful, or are not successful in the time frame we anticipate, we may incur significant costs and/or asset impairments, our business may not grow as anticipated, our margins may be negatively impacted and/or our reputation may be harmed. claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property could adversely affect our business. from time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights against our products or products using our technologies or other technologies used in our industry. these claims have resulted and may again result in our involvement in litigation. we may not prevail in such litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if any of our products were found to infringe on another company's intellectual property rights, we could be subject to an injunction or required to redesign our products, which could be costly, or to license such rights and/or pay damages or other compensation to such other company. if we are unable to redesign our products, license such intellectual property rights used in our products or otherwise distribute our products through a licensed supplier, we could be prohibited from making and selling such products. in any potential dispute involving other companies' patents or other intellectual property, our chipset foundries, semiconductor assembly and test providers and customers could also become the targets of litigation. we are contingently liable under certain product sales, services, license and other agreements to indemnify certain customers against certain types of liability and/or damages arising from qualifying claims of patent infringement by products or services sold or provided by us. reimbursements under indemnification arrangements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. furthermore, any such litigation could severely disrupt the supply of our products and the businesses of our chipset customers and their customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with them 17 and could result in a decline in our chipset sales and/or reductions in our licensees' sales, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. any claims, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming to address, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have an adverse effect upon our operating results. we expect that we may continue to be involved in litigation and may have to appear in front of administrative bodies (such as the u.s. international trade commission) to defend against patent assertions against our products by companies, some of whom are attempting to gain competitive advantage or leverage in licensing negotiations. we may not be successful in such proceedings, and if we are not, the range of possible outcomes includes everything from royalty payment to an injunction on the sale of certain of our integrated circuit products (and on the sale of our customers' devices using such products). any imposition of royalty payments might make purchases of our products less economical for our customers and could have an adverse effect upon our operating results. a negative outcome in any such proceeding could severely disrupt the business of our chipset customers and their wireless operator customers, which in turn could harm our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our share of worldwide chipset sales and/or a reduction in our licensees' sales to wireless operators, causing corresponding declines in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. a number of other companies have claimed to own patents applicable to products implementing various cdma standards, gsm standards and ofdma standards. in addition, existing standards continue to evolve, and new standards, including those applicable to new industry segments, continue to be developed. if future standards diminish, or fail to include, a base level of interoperability, our business may be harmed, and our investments in these new segments may not succeed. if we or other product manufacturers are required to obtain additional licenses and/or pay royalties to one or more of such other patent holders, this could have an adverse effect on the commercial implementation of our products and technologies, average sales prices of and demand for our licensees' products and our results of operations. we depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for the procurement, manufacture and testing of our products. if we fail to execute supply strategies that provide supply assurance, technology leadership and low cost, our operating results and our business may be harmed. our qct segment purchases wafers, die and fully-assembled and tested integrated circuits from third-party semiconductor manufacturing foundries. we also contract with third-party suppliers for assembly, test and other services related to the manufacture of our products. a reduction, interruption, delay or limitation in our product supply source, a failure by our suppliers to procure raw materials or to provide or allocate adequate manufacturing or test capacity for our products or their inability to react to shifts in product demand or an increase in raw material or component prices could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands, our business and/or our profitability. the loss of a supplier or the inability of a supplier to meet performance or quality specifications or delivery schedules could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers and/or negatively impact our revenues, business operations and ability to compete for future business. in the event of a loss of or a decision to change a supplier, qualifying a new foundry supplier and commencing volume production or testing could cause us to incur additional expense and production delays, resulting in possible loss of customers. while we have established alternate suppliers for certain technologies that we consider critical, we rely on sole- or limited-source suppliers for some products, subjecting us to significant risks, including: possible shortages of raw materials or manufacturing capacity; poor product performance; and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability and yields, quality assurance, quantity and costs. to the extent we have established alternate suppliers, these suppliers may require significant levels of support to bring complex technologies to production. as a result, we may invest a significant amount of effort and resources and incur higher costs to support and maintain such alternate suppliers. further, any future consolidation of foundry suppliers could increase our vulnerability to sole- or limited-source arrangements. our arrangements with our suppliers may oblige us to incur costs to manufacture and test our products that do not decrease at the same rate as decreases in pricing to our customers. our ability, and that of our suppliers, to develop or maintain leading process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies, and to effectively compete with the manufacturing processes and performance of our competition, could also impact our ability to meet customer demand, increase our costs and subject us to the risk of excess inventories. our inability to meet customer demand due to sole- or limited-sourcing and/or the additional costs that we incur because of these or other supply constraints or because of the need to support alternate suppliers could negatively impact our business, our revenues and our results of operations. although we have long-term contracts with our suppliers, many of these contracts do not provide for long-term capacity commitments. to the extent that we do not have firm commitments from our suppliers over a specific time period, or for any specific quantity, our suppliers may allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production and testing of products for their other customers while reducing or limiting capacity to manufacture or test our products. accordingly, capacity for our products may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. to the extent we do obtain long-term capacity commitments, we may incur additional costs related to those commitments. 18 one or more of our suppliers or potential alternate suppliers may manufacture cdma- or ofdma-based integrated circuits that compete with our products. in this event, the supplier could elect to allocate raw materials and manufacturing capacity to their own products and reduce or limit deliveries to us to our detriment. in addition, we may not receive reasonable pricing, manufacturing or delivery terms. we cannot guarantee that the actions of our suppliers will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost of sales. our stock price and earnings are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market downturns. our stock price and earnings have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock and/or earnings include, among others: volatility of the stock market in general and technology-based companies in particular that is often unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company; announcements concerning us, our competitors or our customers, including the selection of wireless communications technologies by wireless operators and the timing of the roll-out of those technologies, the use of our or our competitors' integrated circuits in wireless devices by certain manufacturers or the business performance of our customers; international developments, such as technology mandates, political developments or changes in economic policies; changes in recommendations of securities analysts; fluctuations (or market expectations of future fluctuations) in our operating margins and/or earnings (or forecasts) that exceed or fail to meet financial guidance that we provide to investors and/or the expectations of analysts or investors; whether our return of capital to our stockholders meets, does not meet or exceeds the expectations of analysts or investors; proprietary rights, product or patent litigation taken or threatened against us or against our customers or licensees; strategic transactions, such as debt issuance, strategic equity or debt investments, acquisitions, divestitures or spin-offs; unexpected and/or significant changes in the average selling prices of our licensees' products and/or our products; unresolved disputes with licensees that result in non-payment and/or non-recognition of royalty revenues that may be owed to us; declines in the value or performance of our significant marketable securities portfolio, which is subject to financial market volatility and liquidity, interest rate, credit and other risks; or inquiries, rumors or allegations regarding our financial disclosures, practices or compliance programs. in the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. due to changes in our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. securities litigation could result in substantial uninsured costs and divert management's attention and resources. we are subject to government regulations and policies. our business may suffer as a result of new or changes in laws, regulations or policies, our failure or inability to comply with laws, regulations or policies or adverse rulings in enforcement or other proceedings. our business, products and services, and those of our customers and licensees, are subject to various laws and regulations globally, as well as government policies and the specifications of international, national and regional communications standards bodies. the adoption of new laws, regulations or policies, changes in the interpretation of existing laws, regulations or policies, changes in the regulation of our activities by a government or standards body and/or adverse rulings in court, regulatory, administrative or other proceedings relating to such laws, regulations or policies, including, among others, those affecting the use of our technology or products, competitive business practices, licensing practices, protection of intellectual property, trade, foreign investments or loans, spectrum availability and license issuance, adoption of standards, the provision of device subsidies by wireless operators to their customers, taxation, environmental protection or employment, could have an adverse effect on our business. delays in government approvals or other governmental activities that could result from, among others, a decrease in or a lack of funding for certain agencies or branches of the government and/or political changes, could result in our incurring higher costs, could negatively impact our ability to timely consummate strategic transactions and/or could have other negative impacts on our business and the businesses of our customers and licensees. national, state and local environmental laws and regulations affect our operations around the world. these laws may make it more expensive to manufacture, have manufactured and sell products, and our costs could increase if our vendors (e.g., third-party manufacturers or utility companies) pass on their costs to us. 19 the sec has recently adopted disclosure rules for companies that use conflict minerals in their products, with substantial supply chain verification requirements in the event that the materials come from, or could have come from, the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining countries. these new rules and verification requirements, which apply to our activities in calendar 2013 and future years, impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products. further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers that place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed. laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, business conduct, public disclosure and health care are complex and changing and may create uncertainty regarding compliance. laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases, and their application in practice may evolve over time. as a result, our efforts to comply may fail, particularly if there is ambiguity as to how they should be applied in practice. new laws, regulations and standards or evolving interpretations of legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and/or procedures and may divert management time and attention to compliance activities. we may engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make strategic investments that could adversely affect our financial results or fail to enhance stockholder value. we engage in acquisitions and strategic transactions and make strategic investments with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. we acquire businesses and other assets, including wireless spectrum, patents and other intangible assets, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase minority equity interests in or make loans to companies that may be private and early-stage. our strategic activities are generally focused on opening new or expanded opportunities for our technologies and supporting the design and introduction of new products and services for voice and data communications. many of our acquisitions or strategic investments entail a high degree of risk, and investments may not become liquid for several years after the date of the investment, if at all. our acquisitions or strategic investments may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies. in some cases, we may be required to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of companies in which we have acquired ownership interests. in addition, we may record impairment charges related to our acquisitions and strategic investments. any losses or impairment charges that we incur related to strategic investments or other transactions will have a negative impact on our financial results, and we may continue to incur new or additional losses related to strategic assets or investments that we have not fully impaired or exited. achieving the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions depends in part upon our ability to integrate the acquired businesses in an efficient and effective manner. the integration of companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, including, among others: retaining key employees; successfully integrating new employees, business systems and technology; retaining customers and suppliers of the acquired business; minimizing the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business matters; coordinating geographically separate organizations; consolidating research and development operations; and consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. we may not derive any commercial value from acquired technology, products or intellectual property or from future technologies or products based on the acquired technology and/or intellectual property, and we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by indemnification protection we may obtain or we may become subject to litigation. additionally, we may not be successful in expanding into geographic regions and/or categories of products served by or adjacent to an acquired business or in addressing potential new opportunities that may arise out of the combination. due to our inexperience with products of and/or geographic regions served by acquired businesses, we may underestimate the costs and/or overestimate the benefits, including product and other synergies and growth opportunities that we expect to realize, and we may not achieve them. if we do not achieve the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions, our results of operations may be adversely affected, and we may not enhance stockholder value by engaging in these transactions. global economic conditions that impact the mobile communications industry could negatively affect the demand for our products and services and our customers' or licensees' products and services, which may negatively affect our revenues. a decline in global economic conditions, particularly in geographic regions with high concentrations of wireless voice and data users, could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products and services of our customers or licensees, particularly equipment manufacturers or others in the wireless communications industry who buy their products, such as wireless operators. any prolonged economic crisis may result in a downturn in demand for our products or technology; the insolvency of key suppliers; delays in reporting and/or payments from our licensees and/or customers; failures by counterparties; and negative effects on wireless device inventories. in addition, our direct and indirect customers' ability to purchase or pay for our products and services, obtain financing and upgrade their wireless networks could be adversely affected by economic conditions, leading to a reduction, cancelation or delay of orders for our products or services. currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues, harm our ability to collect receivables or increase the u.s. dollar cost of our products or the activities of our foreign subsidiaries and strategic investments. 20 our customers sell their products throughout the world in various currencies. consolidated revenues from international customers as a percentage of total revenues were greater than 90% during each of the last three fiscal years. adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business and our operating results due to a number of factors, including, among others: our products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold outside the united states may become less price-competitive, which may result in reduced demand for those products and/or downward pressure on average selling prices; certain of our revenues, such as royalties, that are derived from licensee or customer sales denominated in foreign currencies could decrease; our foreign suppliers may raise their prices if they are impacted by currency fluctuations, resulting in higher than expected costs and lower margins; foreign exchange hedging transactions that we engage in to reduce the impact of currency fluctuations may require the payment of structuring fees, limit the u.s. dollar value of royalties from licensees' sales that are denominated in foreign currencies, cause earnings volatility if the hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting and expose us to counterparty risk if the counterparty fails to perform; and the u.s. dollar value of our marketable securities that are denominated directly or indirectly in foreign currencies may decline. failures in our products or services or in the products of our customers, including those resulting from security vulnerabilities, defects or errors, could harm our business. the use of devices containing our products to access untrusted content creates a risk of exposing the system software in those devices to viral or malicious attacks. while we continue to focus on this issue and are taking measures to safeguard our products from cybersecurity threats, device capabilities continue to evolve, enabling more data and processes, such as mobile computing, and increasing the risk of security failures. further, our products are inherently complex and may contain defects or errors that are detected only when the products are in use. for example, as our chipset product complexities increase, we are required to migrate to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes. the design process interface issues in new domains of technology are complex and add risk to manufacturing yields and reliability. manufacturing, testing, marketing and use of our products and those of our customers and licensees entail the risk of product liability. because our products and services are responsible for critical functions in our customers' products and/or networks, security failures, defects or errors in our components, materials or software or in our customers' products could have an adverse impact on us, on our customers and on the end users of their products. such adverse impact could include product liability claims or recalls, a decrease in demand for connected devices and wireless services, damage to our reputation and to our customer relationships and other financial liability or harm to our business. our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches. attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are increasingly more sophisticated. these attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. we seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. while we have identified several incidents of unauthorized access, to date none have caused material damage to our business. the theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives and/or otherwise adversely affect our business. to the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers' or licensees' confidential information, we may incur liability. we expect to continue to devote additional resources to the security of our information technology systems. potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could materially differ from amounts reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. in such case, our income tax provision and results of operations in the period or periods in which that determination is made could be negatively affected. our qct segment's non-united states headquarters is located in singapore. we obtained tax incentives in singapore provided that we meet specified employment and incentive criteria, and as a result of expiration of these incentives, our singapore tax rate is expected to increase in fiscal 2017 and again in fiscal 2027. if we do not meet the criteria required to 21 retain such incentives, our singapore tax rate could increase prior to those dates, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. tax rules may change in a manner that adversely affects our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. for example, we consider the operating earnings of certain non-united states subsidiaries to be indefinitely invested outside the united states based on our current needs for those earnings to be reinvested offshore as well as estimates that future domestic cash generation will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs for the foreseeable future. no provision has been made for united states federal and state or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries. our future financial results and liquidity may be adversely affected if tax rules regarding unrepatriated earnings change, if domestic cash needs require us to repatriate foreign earnings, or if the united states international tax rules change as part of comprehensive tax reform or other tax legislation. if wireless devices pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our products and those of our customers and licensees may decrease. concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions continue. interest groups have requested that the federal communications commission investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with, among other things, airbags, hearing aids and medical devices, and there continues to be litigation in the industry with respect to these issues. legislation that may be adopted in response to these concerns or adverse news or findings about safety risks could reduce demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers in the united states as well as in foreign countries. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. in addition, implementing our business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, and our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. the market for employees in our industry is extremely competitive. further, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the united states, making the pool of available talent even smaller. we continue to anticipate increases in human resource needs, particularly in engineering. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our business may be harmed. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. we invest a portion of our cash in a number of diversified fixed and floating rate securities, consisting of cash equivalents, marketable debt securities, debt funds and derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps, that are subject to interest rate risk. changes in the general level of interest rates can affect the fair value of our investment portfolio. if interest rates in the general economy were to rise, our holdings could lose value. historically, we presented a table that disclosed certain information (including principal or notional amounts, interest rates and maturities) regarding our interest-bearing instruments. however, given the increased size and diversity in our investment portfolio, we believe that providing a sensitivity analysis provides more meaningful disclosure regarding the impact to our holdings of potential changes in interest rates. as a result, in lieu of the tabular presentation, we are providing a sensitivity analysis that shows the effect of an assumed 100 basis point adverse movement in interest rates across the entire yield curve. 39 at september 29, 2013 , a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 basis points on our holdings would have resulted in decreases of $9 million and $443 million in the fair values of our holdings classified as trading (including derivative instruments) and our remaining holdings, respectively. at september 30, 2012, the same hypothetical increase in interest rates would have resulted in decreases of $17 million and $430 million in the fair values of our holdings classified as trading (including derivative instruments) and our remaining holdings, respectively. equity price risk. we hold a diversified marketable securities portfolio that includes equity securities and fund shares that are subject to equity price risk. we have made investments in marketable equity securities of companies of varying size, style, industry and geography, and changes in investment allocations may affect the price volatility of our investments. a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and fund shares at september 29, 2013 would cause a decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities of $332 million. at september 29, 2013 , gross unrealized losses of our marketable equity securities and fund shares were $44 million. although we consider these unrealized losses to be temporary, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges or realized losses on the values of these securities if they do not recover in value within a reasonable period. foreign exchange risk. we manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial counterparties. we utilize such derivative financial instruments for hedging or risk management purposes rather than for speculation purposes. counterparties to our derivative contracts are all major banking institutions. in the event of the financial insolvency or distress of a counterparty to our derivative financial instruments, we may be unable to settle transactions if the counterparty does not provide us with sufficient collateral to secure its net settlement obligations to us, which could have a negative impact on our results. see notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1. the company and its significant accounting policies for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies. at september 29, 2013 , we had a net asset of $37 million related to foreign currency option contracts that were designated as hedges of foreign currency risk on royalties earned from certain licensees on their sales of cdma-based devices. if our forecasted royalty revenues were to decline by 20% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in our hedged foreign currency, we would incur a loss of $1 million. at september 29, 2013 , we had a net liability of $8 million related to foreign currency forward contracts that were designated as hedges of foreign currency risk on intercompany payments of operating expenditures relating to a wholly-owned foreign subsidiary. if our forecasted operating expenditures were to decline by 20% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in each of our hedged foreign currencies, we would not incur a loss. at september 29, 2013 , we had a net liability of $14 million related to foreign currency forwards, futures, options and swaps that were not designated as hedging instruments related to our marketable securities portfolios classified as trading. if the foreign exchange rates relevant to these contracts were to change unfavorably by 10% and we do not have an offset foreign currency exposure relating to debt instruments held in our marketable securities portfolios classified as trading, we would incur a loss of $2 million. financial assets and liabilities held by consolidated subsidiaries that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. as a global company, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. as a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. while we may hedge certain transactions with non-united states customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate the risks discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks.risk factors 13 risk factors you should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this annual report in evaluating our business and our prospects. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. you should also refer to the other information set forth in this annual report, including our financial statements and the related notes. risks related to our businesses our revenues depend on commercial network deployments, expansions and upgrades of cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies, our customers' and licensees' sales of products and services based on these technologies and our ability to drive our customers' demand for our products and services. we develop, patent and commercialize technology and products based on cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies, which are primarily wireless. we depend on our customers, our licensees and operators of wireless networks to use these technologies in their adoption of our products and services into their devices and networks and on the timing of their deployments of new products and services. we also depend on our customers and licensees to develop products and services with value-added features to drive consumer demand for new 3g, 3g/4g multimode and 4g devices, as well as the selling prices for such devices. further, our rate of revenue growth may depend on third parties incorporating our technology, products and/or services into new device types used in industries beyond traditional cellular communications. our revenues and/or growth in revenues could be negatively impacted, our business may be harmed and our substantial investments in these technologies may not provide us an adequate return, if: wireless operators and industries beyond traditional cellular communications deploy alternative technologies; wireless operators delay 3g and 3g/4g multimode network deployments, expansions or upgrades and/or delay moving 2g customers to 3g, 3g/4g multimode or 4g wireless devices; lte, an ofdma-based 4g wireless technology, is not more widely deployed or further commercial deployment is delayed; government regulators delay making sufficient spectrum available for 3g and/or 3g/4g networks, thereby restricting the expansion of 3g/4g wireless connectivity to keep pace with consumer demand; wireless operators are unable to drive improvements in 3g or 3g/4g multimode network performance and/or capacity; our customers' and licensees' revenues and sales of products, particularly premium-tier products, and services using these technologies, do not grow or do not grow as quickly as anticipated, due to, for example, the maturity of smartphone penetration in developed regions (where premium-tier products are common); and/or we are unable to drive the adoption of our products and services into networks and devices based on cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies. our industry is subject to competition in an environment of rapid technological change that could result in decreased demand and/or declining average selling prices for our products and those of our customers and/or licensees and/or result in placing new specifications or requirements on our products, each of which could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. our products, services and technologies face significant competition, and the revenues they generate and/or the timing of such revenues, which depend on deployments and/or actions by others, may not meet expectations. we expect competition to increase as our current competitors expand their product offerings and as new opportunities develop, putting continued pressure on the pricing of our products and services. competition in wireless communications is affected by various factors that include, among others: device manufacturer concentrations; growth in emerging geographic regions; government intervention; evolving 13 industry standards and business models; evolving methods of transmission of voice and data communications; increasing data traffic and densification of wireless networks; convergence of transmission platforms (including wi-fi and small cell infrastructures), which is also described as the consolidation of access points at the edge of the internet; networking and connectivity trends (including cloud services); evolving nature of computing (including demand for always on, always connected capabilities); the speed of technological change (including the transition to smaller geometry process technologies); value-added features that drive selling prices as well as consumer demand for new 3g, 3g/4g multimode and 4g devices; turnkey, integrated products that incorporate hardware, software, user interface, applications and reference designs; rapid growth in mobile data consumption; scalability; and the ability of the system technology to meet customers' immediate and future network requirements. we anticipate that additional competitors will introduce products as a result of growth opportunities in wireless communications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in certain segments of the industry. our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to: develop innovative, differentiated integrated circuit products and technologies across multiple products and features (e.g., modem, radio frequency front end, central, graphics and/or other processors and connectivity) and with smaller geometry process technologies; develop and offer integrated circuit products at competitive cost and price points to effectively cover both emerging and developed geographic regions and multiple device tiers (e.g., premium- and low-tier smartphones); continue to drive the adoption of our integrated circuit products into the most popular device models and across a broad spectrum of devices, such as smartphones, tablets and other connected devices, and infrastructure products; maintain and/or accelerate demand for our integrated circuit products at the premium device tier, while increasing the adoption of our products in low-tier devices and in the turnkey product channel, in part by strengthening our integrated circuit product roadmap for, and developing channel relationships in, emerging geographic regions, such as china and india, and by providing turnkey products, which incorporate our integrated circuits, for low- and mid-tier smartphones and tablets; continue to be a leader in 4g technology evolution, including expansion of our ofdma-based single mode licensing program, and continue to innovate and introduce 4g turnkey, integrated products and services that differentiate us from our competition; be a leader serving original equipment manufacturers, high level operating systems (hlos) providers, operators and other industry participants as competitors, new industry entrants and other factors continue to affect the industry landscape; be a preferred partner (and sustain preferred relationships) providing integrated circuit products that support multiple operating system and infrastructure platforms to industry participants that effectively commercialize new devices using these platforms; increase and/or accelerate demand for our wired and wireless connectivity products, including networking products for consumers, carriers and enterprise equipment and connected devices; become a leading supplier of small cell modems (which enable inexpensive cell sites deployed by users to connect to traditional cellular networks through wired internet connections) and products that enable wi-fi access to support significant network capacity expansion that will be needed to meet anticipated growth in mobile data traffic; identify potential acquisition targets that will grow or sustain our business or address strategic needs, reach agreement on terms acceptable to us and effectively integrate these new businesses and/or technologies; create stand-alone value and/or contribute to the success of our existing businesses through acquisitions and other investments (and/or by developing customer, licensee and/or vendor relationships) in new industry segments and/or disruptive technologies, products and/or services (such as the connected home and the internet of everything, automotive products, new display technologies, mobile health, machine learning, including robotics and wireless charging, among others; and/or continue to develop brand recognition to effectively compete against better known companies in mobile computing and other consumer driven segments and to deepen our presence in significant emerging geographic regions. competition in any or all product tiers, customer concentration and/or growth in sales of low-tier products, particularly relative to premium-tier products, may reduce average selling prices for our chipset products and the products of our customers and licensees. certain of these dynamics are particularly pronounced in emerging geographic regions (e.g. china). reductions in the average selling prices of our chipset products, without a corresponding increase in volumes, would negatively impact our revenues, and without corresponding decreases in average unit costs, would negatively impact our margins. in addition, 14 reductions in the average selling prices of our licensees' products, unless offset by an increase in volumes, would generally decrease total royalties payable to us, negatively impacting our licensing revenues. companies that promote standards that are neither cdma- nor ofdma-based (e.g., gsm, wi-fi) as well as companies that design integrated circuits based on cdma, ofdma or their derivatives are generally competitors or potential competitors. examples (some of which are strategic partners of ours in other areas) include broadcom, ericsson, hisilicon technologies, intel, lantiq, marvell technology, maxim integrated products, mediatek, nvidia, realtek semiconductor, samsung electronics, spreadtrum communications (which is controlled by tsinghua unigroup), texas instruments and via telecom. some of these current and potential competitors have advantages over us that include, among others: lower cost structures; better known brand names; ownership and control of manufacturing facilities and greater expertise in manufacturing processes; motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to find alternate suppliers or chose alternative technologies; foreign government support of other technologies or competitors; more extensive relationships with local distribution companies and original equipment manufacturers in emerging geographic regions (such as china); and/or a more established presence in certain device markets. certain of our software and our suppliers' software may contain or may be derived from open source software, and we have seen, and believe we will continue to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including software associated with our integrated circuit products, that incorporate open source software elements and operate in an open source environment, which, under certain open source licenses, may offer accessibility to a portion of a product's source code and may expose related intellectual property to adverse licensing conditions. licensing of such software may impose certain obligations on us if we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. for example, these obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to our customers in a manner that allows them to make such source code available to their customers, or license such derivative works under a particular type of license that is different than what we customarily use to license our software. developing open source products, while adequately protecting the intellectual property rights upon which our licensing business depends, may prove burdensome and time-consuming under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage. also, our use and our customers' use of open source software may subject our products and our customers' products to governmental scrutiny and delays in product certification, which could cause customers to view our products as less desirable than our competitors' products. while we believe we have taken appropriate steps and employ adequate controls to protect our intellectual property rights, our use of open source software presents risks that could have an adverse effect on these rights and on our business. we derive a significant portion of our consolidated revenues from a small number of customers and licensees. if revenues derived from these customers or licensees decrease or the timing of such revenues fluctuates, our operating results could be negatively affected. our qct segment derives a significant portion of revenues from a small number of customers, and we expect this trend to continue in the foreseeable future. our industry is experiencing and may continue to experience an increasing concentration of device share among a few companies contributing to this trend. in addition, one of our integrated circuit competitors is part of a conglomerate that includes one of our largest integrated circuit customers. the loss of any one of our significant customers, a reduction in the purchases of our products by such customers or cancelation of significant purchases from any of these customers would reduce our revenues and could harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected operating results, and a delay of significant purchases, even if only temporary, would reduce our revenues in the period of the delay. further, concentration of device share among a few companies, and the corresponding purchasing power of these companies, may result in lower prices for our products which, if not accompanied by a sufficient increase in the volume of purchases of our products, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and margins. in addition, the timing and size of purchases by our significant customers may be impacted by the timing of such customers' new or next generation product introductions, over which we have little or no control, and the timing of such introductions may cause our operating results to fluctuate. accordingly, if current industry dynamics and concentrations continue, our qct segment's revenues will continue to depend largely upon, and be impacted by, future purchases and the timing and size of any such future purchases by these significant customers. further, companies that develop hlos for devices, including leading technology companies, have entered the device market. if we fail to effectively partner or continue partnering with these companies, or with their partners or customers, they may decide not to purchase (either directly or through their contract manufacturers), or to reduce or discontinue their purchases of, our integrated circuit products. in addition, there has been and continues to be litigation among certain of our customers and other industry participants, and the potential outcomes of such litigation, including but not limited to injunctions against devices that incorporate our products and/or intellectual property or rulings on certain patent law or patent licensing issues that create new legal precedent, could impact our business, particularly if such action impacts one of our larger customers. although we have more than 260 cdma-based licensees, our qtl segment derives a significant portion of licensing revenues from a limited number of licensees. in the event that one or more of our significant licensees fail to meet their 15 reporting and/or payment requirements or we are unable to renew one or more of such license agreements, our revenues, operating results and cash flows would be adversely impacted. moreover, the future growth and success of our core licensing business will depend in part on the ability of our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver high-volume products that achieve and sustain customer acceptance. we have little or no control over the product development, sales efforts or pricing of products by our licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. reductions in the average selling prices of wireless devices sold by our major licensees, without a sufficient increase in the volumes of such devices sold, would generally have an adverse effect on our licensing revenues. the continued and future success of our licensing programs can be impacted by the deployment of other technologies in place of technologies based on cdma, ofdma and their derivatives; the need to extend certain existing license agreements that are expiring and/or to cover additional later patents; and/or the success of our licensing programs for 4g single mode products and emerging industry segments. although we own a very strong portfolio of issued and pending patents related to gsm, gprs, edge, ofdm, ofdma, wlan, mimo and other technologies, our patent portfolio licensing program in these areas is less established and might not be as successful in generating licensing revenues as our cdma licensing program. many wireless operators are investigating, have selected or have deployed ofdma-based lte as their next-generation 4g technology in existing (or future if not yet deployed) wireless spectrum bands as complementary to their existing cdma-based networks. while 3g/4g multimode products are generally covered by our existing 3g licensing agreements, products that implement 4g that do not also implement 3g are generally not covered by these agreements. although we believe that our patented technology is essential and useful to implementation of the lte industry standards and have granted royalty-bearing licenses to more than 115 companies (including lg, microsoft, samsung, sony mobile and zte) that have realized that they need a license under our patents to make and sell products implementing 4g standards but not implementing 3g standards, it may be difficult to agree on material terms and/or conditions of new license agreements that are acceptable to us with companies that are currently unlicensed, particularly in china. further, the royalty rates for single mode 4g products are generally lower than our royalty rates for 3g and 3g/4g multimode products, and therefore, we might not achieve the same licensing revenues on such lte products as on 3g and 3g/4g multimode products. in addition, new connectivity and other services are emerging that rely on devices that may or may not be used on traditional cellular networks, such as devices used in the connected home or the internet of everything. we also seek to diversify and broaden our technology licensing programs to new industry segments in which we can leverage our technology leadership, such as wireless charging, display and other technologies. standards, even de facto standards, that develop as these technologies mature, in particular those that do not include a base level of interoperability, may impact our ability to obtain royalties that are equivalent to those that we receive for 3g and 3g/4g multimode products used in cellular communications. although we believe that our patented technology is essential and useful to the commercialization of such services, the royalties we receive may be lower than those we receive from our current licensing program. over the long-term, we need to continue to evolve our patent portfolio. if we do not maintain a strong portfolio that is applicable to current and/or future products and/or services, our future licensing revenues could be negatively impacted. the licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date and, in a small number of agreements, royalties are payable on those patents for a specified time period. as a result, there are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us and/or royalties are not owed to us under such license agreements after the specified time period. in order to license or to obtain a license to such later patents, or to receive royalties after the specified time period, we will need to extend or modify such license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees. we might not be able to modify those license agreements, or enter into new license agreements, in the future without affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees, and such modifications or new agreements may negatively impact our revenues. if there is a delay in renewing a license agreement prior to its expiration, there would be a delay in our ability to recognize revenues related to that licensee's product sales. further, if we are unable to reach agreement on such modifications or new agreements, it could result in patent infringement litigation with such companies. efforts by some communications equipment manufacturers or their customers to avoid paying fair and reasonable royalties for the use of our intellectual property may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources and may result in legal decisions and/or actions by governments, courts, regulators or agencies, standards development organizations (sdos) or other industry organizations that harm our business. from time to time, companies initiate various strategies to attempt to renegotiate, mitigate and/or eliminate their need to pay royalties to us for the use of our intellectual property. these strategies have included: (i) litigation, often alleging infringement of patents held by such companies, patent misuse, patent exhaustion, patent invalidity and/or unenforceability of our patents and/or licenses, or some form of unfair competition; (ii) taking positions contrary to our understanding of their contracts with us; (iii) appeals to governmental authorities; (iv) collective action, including working with wireless operators, standards bodies, other like-minded companies and other organizations, on both formal and informal bases, to adopt intellectual 16 property policies and practices that could have the effect of limiting returns on intellectual property innovations; (v) lobbying governmental regulators and elected officials for the purpose of seeking the imposition of some form of compulsory licensing and/or to weaken a patent holder's ability to enforce its rights or obtain a fair return for such rights; and (vi) licensees using various strategies in attempts to shift their royalty obligation to their suppliers. in addition, particularly in china, certain licensees have disputed or underreported royalties owed to us under their license agreements with us, and certain companies have yet to enter into or delayed entering into license agreements with us for their use of our intellectual property, and such licensees and/or companies may continue to do so in the future. we are currently subject to litigation and various governmental investigations and/or proceedings, some of which may arise out of the strategies described above. certain legal matters are described more fully in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. see notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7 - commitments and contingencies. the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. depending on the type of matter, various remedies that could result from an unfavorable resolution include, among others, injunctions, monetary damages or fines or other orders to pay money and the issuance of orders to cease certain conduct and/or modify our business practices. in addition, in connection with our participation in sdos, we, like other patent owners, generally have made contractual commitments to such organizations to license those of our patents that would necessarily be infringed by standard-compliant products (standard-essential patents) on terms that are fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory (frand). some manufacturers and users of standard-compliant products advance interpretations of these frand commitments that are adverse to our licensing business, including interpretations that would limit the amount of royalties that we could collect on the licensing of our patent portfolio. further, some companies or entities have proposed significant changes to existing intellectual property policies for implementation by sdos and other industry organizations with the goal of significantly devaluing standard-essential patents. for example, some have put forth proposals which would require a maximum aggregate intellectual property royalty rate for the use of all standard-essential patents owned by all of the member companies to be applied to the selling price of any product implementing the relevant standard. they have further proposed that such maximum aggregate royalty rate be apportioned to each member company with standard-essential patents based upon the number of standard-essential patents held by such company. others have proposed that injunctions not be an available remedy for infringement of standard-essential patents and/or have made proposals that could severely limit damage awards and other remedies by courts for patent infringement (e.g., by severely limiting the base upon which the royalty percentage may be applied). a number of these strategies are purportedly based on interpretations of the policies of certain sdos concerning the licensing of patents that are or may be essential to industry standards and on our (and/or other companies') alleged failure to abide by these policies. some courts and governmental agencies have adopted and may in the future adopt some or all of these interpretations or proposals in a manner adverse to our interests, and sdos may adopt such interpretations or proposals as so-called clarifications or amendments to their intellectual property policies. we expect that such proposals, interpretations and strategies will continue in the future, and if successful, our business model would be harmed, either by limiting or eliminating our ability to collect royalties on all or a portion of our patent portfolio, limiting our return on investment with respect to new technologies, limiting our ability to seek injunctions against infringers of our standard-essential patents, constraining our ability to make licensing commitments when submitting our technology for inclusion in future standards (which could make our technology less likely to be included in such standards) or forcing us to work outside of sdos or other industry groups to promote our new technologies, and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. in addition, the legal and other costs associated with asserting or defending our positions have been and continue to be significant. we assume that such challenges, regardless of their merits, will continue into the foreseeable future and may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources. the enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive, could fail to prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary intellectual property rights, could result in the loss of our ability to enforce one or more patents, or could be adversely affected by changes in patent laws, by laws in certain foreign jurisdictions that may not effectively protect our intellectual property rights or by ineffective enforcement of laws in such jurisdictions. we rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, international treaties and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes, including our patent portfolio. policing unauthorized use of our products, technologies and proprietary information is difficult and time consuming. we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken, or may take in the future, will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary intellectual property rights as fully or as readily as united states laws or where the enforcement of such laws may be lacking or ineffective. some industry participants who have a vested interest in devaluing patents in general, or standard-essential patents in particular, have mounted attacks on certain patent systems, increasing the 17 likelihood of changes to established patent laws. in the united states, there is continued discussion regarding potential patent law changes. the laws in certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including certain countries in asia, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws in the united states. we expect that in the next few years the european union will adopt a unitary patent system that may broadly impact that region's patent regime. we cannot predict with certainty the long-term effects of any potential changes. in addition, we cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country or the practices of any standards bodies, foreign or domestic, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing or the adoption of standards, will not be changed in the future in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. we have had and may in the future have difficulty in certain circumstances in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights and/or contracts, including collecting royalties for use of our patent portfolio in particular foreign jurisdictions due to, among others: policies of foreign governments; challenges to our licensing practices under such jurisdictions' competition laws; adoption of mandatory licensing provisions by foreign jurisdictions (either with controlled/regulated royalties or royalty free); failure of foreign courts to recognize and enforce judgments of contract breach and damages issued by courts in the united states; and/or challenges pending before foreign competition agencies to the pricing and integration of additional features and functionality into our chipset products. although our license agreements provide us with the right to audit the books and records of licensees, audits can be expensive, time consuming, incomplete and subject to dispute. particularly in china, certain licensees have disputed or underreported royalties owed to us under their license agreements with us, and certain companies have yet to enter into or delayed entering into license agreements for their use of our intellectual property, and such licensees and/or companies may continue to do so in the future. we may need to litigate in the united states or elsewhere in the world to enforce our contract and/or intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. as a result of any such litigation, we could lose our ability to enforce one or more patents, portions of our license agreements could be determined to be invalid or unenforceable and/or we could incur substantial unexpected operating costs. any action we take to enforce our contract or intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. further, even a positive resolution to our enforcement efforts may take time to conclude, which may reduce our revenues in the period prior to conclusion. we are subject to government regulations and policies. our business may suffer as a result of new or changed laws, regulations or policies, our failure or inability to comply with laws, regulations or policies or adverse rulings in enforcement or other proceedings. our business, products and services, and those of our customers and licensees, are subject to various laws and regulations globally, as well as government policies and the specifications of international, national and regional communications standards bodies. the adoption of new laws, regulations or policies, changes in the interpretation of existing laws, regulations or policies, changes in the regulation of our activities by a government or standards body and/or adverse rulings in court, regulatory, administrative or other proceedings relating to such laws, regulations or policies, including, among others, those affecting licensing practices, competitive business practices, the use of our technology or products, protection of intellectual property, trade, foreign investments or loans, spectrum availability and license issuance, adoption of standards, the provision of device subsidies by wireless operators to their customers, taxation, environmental protection or employment, could have an adverse effect on our business. we are currently subject to various governmental investigations and/or proceedings, and certain matters are described more fully in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. see notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7 - commitments and contingencies. the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. depending on the type of matter, various remedies that could result from an unfavorable resolution include, among others, injunctions, monetary damages or fines or other orders to pay money, and the issuance of orders to cease certain conduct and/or modify our business practices. delays in government approvals or other governmental activities that could result from, among others, a decrease in or a lack of funding for certain agencies or branches of the government and/or political changes, could result in our incurring higher costs, could negatively impact our ability to timely consummate strategic transactions and/or could have other negative impacts on our business and the businesses of our customers and licensees. national, state and local environmental laws and regulations affect our operations around the world. these laws may make it more expensive to manufacture, have manufactured and sell products, and our costs could increase if our vendors (e.g., third-party manufacturers or utility companies) pass on their costs to us. regulations in the united states require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country, or were from recycled or scrap sources. the verification and reporting requirements, in addition to customer demands for conflict free sourcing, impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers, and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products. 18 further, if we are unable to determine that our products are conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers that place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed. laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, business conduct, public disclosure and health care are complex and changing and may create uncertainty regarding compliance. laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases, and their application in practice may evolve over time. as a result, our efforts to comply may fail, particularly if there is ambiguity as to how they should be applied in practice. new laws, regulations and standards or evolving interpretations of legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and/or procedures and may divert management time and attention to compliance activities. our research, development and other investments in new technologies, products and services may not generate operating income or contribute to future operating results that meet our expectations. our industry is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions, and we must make substantial research, development and other investments, such as acquisitions, in new products, services and technologies to compete successfully. technological innovations generally require significant research and development efforts before they are commercially viable. we intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing new products, services and technologies that we believe can create stand-alone value and/or contribute to the success of our existing businesses. however, it is possible that these initiatives will not be successful and/or will not result in meaningful revenues or generate operating income that meets expectations. while we continue to focus our development efforts primarily in support of 3g cdma- and 4g ofdma-based technologies, we innovate across a broad spectrum of opportunities to deploy new business models and enter into new industry segments by leveraging our existing technical and business expertise and/or through acquisitions. our recent investment initiatives relate to, among others, networking, mobile computing, small cell technology and addressing the challenge of meeting the increased demand for data; products for the connected home and the internet of everything; automotive; very high speed connectivity; new display technologies; data centers; mobile health; wireless charging; and machine learning, including robotics. our research, development and other investments in new technologies, products or services may not succeed due to, among others: improvements in alternate technologies in ways that reduce the advantages we anticipate from our investments; competitors' products or services being more cost effective, having more capabilities or fewer limitations or being brought to market faster than our new products and services; and competitors having longer operating histories in industry segments that are new to us. we may also underestimate the costs of or overestimate the future operating income and/or margins that could result from these investments; and these investments may not, or may take many years to, generate material returns. if our new technologies, products or services are not successful, or are not successful in the time frame we anticipate, we may incur significant costs and/or asset impairments, our business may not grow as anticipated, our revenues and/or margins may be negatively impacted and/or our reputation may be harmed. claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property could adversely affect our business. from time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights against our products or products using our technologies or other technologies used in our industry. these claims have resulted and may again result in our involvement in litigation. we may not prevail in such litigation given, among other factors, the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if any of our products or services were found to infringe on another company's intellectual property rights, we could be subject to an injunction or be required to redesign our products or services, which could be costly, or to license such rights and/or pay damages or other compensation to such other company. if we are unable to redesign our products or services, license such intellectual property rights used in our products or services or otherwise distribute our products through a licensed supplier, we could be prohibited from making and selling such products or providing such services. in any potential dispute involving other companies' patents or other intellectual property, our chipset foundries, semiconductor assembly and test providers and customers could also become the targets of litigation. we are contingently liable under certain product sales, services, license and other agreements to indemnify certain customers against certain types of liability and/or damages arising from qualifying claims of patent infringement by products or services sold or provided by us. reimbursements under indemnification arrangements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. furthermore, any such litigation could severely disrupt the supply of our products and the businesses of our chipset customers and their customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our chipset sales and/or reductions in our licensees' sales, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. any claims, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming to address, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. we expect that we may continue to be involved in litigation and may have to appear in front of administrative bodies (such as the united states international trade commission) to defend against patent assertions against our products by companies, some of whom are attempting to gain competitive advantage or leverage in licensing negotiations. we may not be successful in such proceedings, and if we are not, the range of possible outcomes is very broad and may include, for example, monetary 19 damages, royalty payments and/or an injunction on the sale of certain of our integrated circuit products (and on the sale of our customers' devices using such products). any imposition of royalty payments might make purchases of our products less economical for our customers and could have an adverse effect on our operating results. a negative outcome in any such proceeding could severely disrupt the business of our chipset customers and their wireless operator customers, which in turn could harm our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our share of worldwide chipset sales and/or a reduction in our licensees' sales to wireless operators, causing corresponding declines in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. a number of other companies have claimed to own patents applicable to products implementing various cdma standards, gsm standards and ofdma standards. in addition, existing standards continue to evolve, and new standards, including those applicable to new industry segments, continue to be developed. if future standards diminish, or fail to include, a base level of interoperability, our business may be harmed, and our investments in these new segments may not succeed. if we are required to obtain additional licenses and/or pay royalties to one or more of such other patent holders, this could have an adverse effect on the commercial implementation of our products and technologies and our results of operations. we may engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make strategic investments that could adversely affect our financial results or fail to enhance stockholder value. we engage in acquisitions and strategic transactions and make strategic investments, which are important to our business strategy, with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. we acquire businesses and other assets, including patents, technology, wireless spectrum and other intangible assets, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase minority equity interests in or make loans to companies that may be private and early-stage. our strategic activities are generally focused on opening new or expanding opportunities for our technologies and supporting the design and introduction of new products and services (or enhancing existing products or services) for voice and data communications. many of our acquisitions or strategic investments entail a high degree of risk and require the use of domestic and/or foreign capital, and investments may not become liquid for several years after the date of the investment, if at all. our acquisitions or strategic investments may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies, products or services. in some cases, we may be required to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of companies in which we have acquired ownership interests. in addition, we may record impairment charges related to our acquisitions or strategic investments. any losses or impairment charges that we incur related to strategic investments or other transactions will have a negative impact on our financial results, and we may continue to incur new or additional losses related to strategic assets or investments that we have not fully impaired or exited. achieving the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions depends in part upon our ability to integrate the acquired businesses in an efficient and effective manner. the integration of companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, including, among others: retaining key employees; successfully integrating new employees, business systems and technology; retaining customers and suppliers of the acquired business; consolidating research and development and/or supply operations; minimizing the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business matters; and consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. we may not derive any commercial value from acquired technologies or products or from future technologies or products based on the acquired technologies, and we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by indemnification protection that we may obtain, or we may become subject to litigation. additionally, we may not be successful in expanding into geographic regions and/or categories of products served by or adjacent to an acquired business or in addressing potential new opportunities that may arise out of the combination. in part due to our inexperience with technologies and/or products of and/or geographic regions served by acquired businesses, we may underestimate the costs and/or overestimate the benefits, including product and other synergies and growth opportunities that we expect to realize, and we may not achieve them. if we do not achieve the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions, our results of operations may be adversely affected, and we may not enhance stockholder value by engaging in these transactions. we depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for the procurement, manufacture and testing of our products. if we fail to execute supply strategies that provide supply assurance, technology leadership and low cost, our operating results and our business may be harmed. our qct segment purchases wafers, die and fully-assembled and tested integrated circuits from third-party semiconductor manufacturing foundries, primarily located in asia. we also contract with third-party suppliers for assembly, test and other services related to the manufacture of our products. the following could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands and/or negatively impact our revenues, business operations, profitability and/or cash flows: a reduction, interruption, delay or limitation in our product supply sources; a failure by our suppliers to procure raw materials or to provide or allocate adequate manufacturing or test capacity for our products; our suppliers' inability to react to shifts in product demand or an increase in raw material or component prices; 20 the loss of a supplier or the inability of a supplier to meet performance or quality specifications or delivery schedules; and/or additional expense and/or production delays as a result of qualifying a new supplier and commencing volume production or testing in the event of a loss of or a decision to add or change a supplier. while we have established alternate suppliers for certain technologies that we consider critical, we rely on sole- or limited-source suppliers for some products, subjecting us to significant risks, including: possible shortages of raw materials or manufacturing capacity; poor product performance; and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability and yields, quality assurance, quantity and costs. to the extent we have established alternate suppliers, these suppliers may require significant levels of support to bring complex technologies to production. as a result, we may invest a significant amount of effort and resources and incur higher costs to support and maintain such alternate suppliers. further, any future consolidation of foundry suppliers could increase our vulnerability to sole- or limited-source arrangements. our arrangements with our suppliers may obligate us to incur costs to manufacture and test our products that do not decrease at the same rate as decreases in pricing to our customers. our ability, and that of our suppliers, to develop or maintain leading process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies, and to effectively compete with the manufacturing processes and performance of our competitors, could impact our ability to introduce new products and meet customer demand, could increase our costs (possibly decreasing our margins) and could subject us to the risk of excess inventories. our inability to meet customer demand due to sole- or limited-sourcing and/or the additional costs that we incur because of these or other supply constraints or because of the need to support alternate suppliers could negatively impact our business, our revenues and our results of operations. although we have long-term contracts with our suppliers, many of these contracts do not provide for long-term capacity commitments. to the extent that we do not have firm commitments from our suppliers over a specific time period, or for any specific quantity, our suppliers may allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production and testing of products for their other customers while reducing or limiting capacity to manufacture or test our products. accordingly, capacity for our products may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. to the extent we do obtain long-term capacity commitments, we may incur additional costs related to those commitments and/or make non-refundable payments for capacity commitments that are not used. one or more of our suppliers or potential alternate suppliers may manufacture cdma- or ofdma-based integrated circuits that compete with our products. in this event, the supplier could elect to allocate raw materials and manufacturing capacity to their own products and reduce or limit deliveries to us to our detriment. in addition, we may not receive reasonable pricing, manufacturing or delivery terms. we cannot guarantee that the actions of our suppliers will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost of sales. our stock price and earnings are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market downturns. our stock price and earnings have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock and/or earnings include those identified throughout this risk factors section, volatility of the stock market in general and technology-based companies in particular, announcements concerning us, our suppliers, our competitors or our customers and variations between our actual results and expectations of securities analysts, among others. further, increased volatility in the financial markets and/or overall economic conditions may reduce the amounts that we realize in the future on our cash equivalents and/or marketable securities and may reduce our earnings as a result of any impairment charges that we record to reduce recorded values of marketable securities to their fair values. in the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. due to changes in our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. securities litigation could result in substantial uninsured costs and divert management's attention and resources. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel and on our ability to continue to identify, attract, retain and motivate them. implementing our business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, as our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. the market for employees in our industry is extremely competitive. further, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the united states, making the pool of available talent even smaller. we continue to anticipate increases in human resource needs, particularly in engineering. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our business may be harmed. global economic conditions that impact the mobile communications industry could negatively affect the demand for our products and services and our customers' or licensees' products and services, which may negatively affect our revenues. 21 a decline in global economic conditions or a slow-down in economic growth, particularly in geographic regions with high concentrations of wireless voice and data users, could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products and services of our customers or licensees, particularly equipment manufacturers or others in the wireless communications industry who buy their products, such as wireless operators. any prolonged economic downturn may result in a decrease in demand for our products or technologies; the insolvency of key suppliers; delays in reporting and/or payments from our licensees and/or customers; failures by counterparties; and negative effects on wireless device inventories. in addition, our customers' ability to purchase or pay for our products and services and network operators' ability to upgrade their wireless networks could be adversely affected by economic conditions, leading to a reduction, cancelation or delay of orders for our products or services. currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues, harm our ability to collect receivables or increase the u.s. dollar cost of our products or the activities of our foreign subsidiaries and strategic investments. our customers sell their products throughout the world in various currencies. our consolidated revenues from international customers as a percentage of our total revenues were greater than 90% during each of the last three fiscal years. adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business and our operating results due to a number of factors, including, among others: our products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold outside the united states may become less price-competitive, which may result in reduced demand for those products and/or downward pressure on average selling prices; certain of our revenues, such as royalties, that are derived from licensee or customer sales denominated in foreign currencies could decrease; our foreign suppliers may raise their prices if they are impacted by currency fluctuations, resulting in higher than expected costs and lower margins; and/or foreign exchange hedging transactions that we engage in to reduce the impact of currency fluctuations may require the payment of structuring fees, limit the u.s. dollar value of royalties from licensees' sales that are denominated in foreign currencies, cause earnings volatility if the hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting and expose us to counterparty risk if the counterparty fails to perform. failures in our products or services or in the products or services of our customers or licensees, including those resulting from security vulnerabilities, defects or errors, could harm our business. the use of devices containing our products to access untrusted content creates a risk of exposing the system software in those devices to viral or malicious attacks. while we continue to focus on this issue and are taking measures to safeguard our products from cybersecurity threats, device capabilities continue to evolve, enabling more data and processes, such as mobile computing, and increasing the risk of security failures. further, our products are inherently complex and may contain defects or errors that are detected only when the products are in use. as our chipset product complexities increase, we are required to migrate to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes. the design process interface in new domains of technology is complex and adds risk to manufacturing yields and reliability. further, manufacturing, testing, marketing and use of our products and those of our customers and licensees entail the risk of product liability. because our products and services are responsible for critical functions in our customers' products and/or networks, security failures, defects or errors in our products and services could have an adverse impact on us, on our customers and on the end users of our customers' products. such adverse impact could include product liability claims or recalls, write-offs of the recorded values of our inventories and/or intangible assets; a shift of business to our competitors; a decrease in demand for connected devices and wireless services, damage to our reputation and to our customer relationships and other financial liability or harm to our business. our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches. attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are increasingly more sophisticated. these attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. we seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. while we have identified several incidents of unauthorized access, to date none have caused material damage to our business. the theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives and/or otherwise adversely affect our business. to the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers' or licensees' confidential information, we may incur liability. we expect to continue to devote additional resources to the security of our information technology systems. 22 potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including singapore where our qct segments' non-united states headquarters is located. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could materially differ from amounts reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. in such case, our income tax provision and results of operations in the period or periods in which that determination is made could be negatively affected. we have tax incentives in singapore provided that we meet specified employment and incentive criteria, and as a result of expiration of these incentives, our singapore tax rate is expected to increase in fiscal 2017 and again in fiscal 2027. if we do not meet the criteria required to retain such incentives, our singapore tax rate could increase prior to those dates, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. tax rules may change in a manner that adversely affects our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. for example, we consider the operating earnings of certain non-united states subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside the united states based on our current needs for those earnings to be reinvested offshore as well as estimates that future domestic cash generated from operations and/or borrowings will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs for the foreseeable future. no provision has been made for united states federal, state or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries. our future financial results and liquidity may be adversely affected if tax rules regarding unrepatriated earnings change, if domestic cash needs require us to repatriate foreign earnings, if the shares of these foreign subsidiaries were sold or otherwise transferred or if the united states international tax rules change as part of comprehensive tax reform or other tax legislation. if our effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the united states or singapore, our operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. we invest a portion of our cash in a number of diversified fixed and floating rate securities, consisting of cash equivalents, marketable debt securities, debt funds and derivative instruments (including interest rate swaps) that are subject to interest rate risk. changes in the general level of interest rates can affect the fair value of our investment portfolio. if interest rates in the general economy were to rise, our holdings could lose value. we provide a sensitivity analysis that shows the effect of an assumed 100 basis point adverse movement in interest rates across the entire yield curve. at september 28, 2014 , a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 basis points on our holdings would have resulted in decreases of $12 million and $360 million in the fair values of our holdings classified as trading (including derivative instruments) and our remaining holdings, respectively. equity price risk. we hold a diversified marketable securities portfolio that includes equity securities and fund shares that are subject to equity price risk. we have made investments in marketable equity securities of companies of varying size, style, industry and geography, and changes in investment allocations may affect the price volatility of our investments. a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and fund shares at september 28, 2014 would have caused a decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities of $234 million. at september 28, 2014 , gross unrealized losses of our marketable equity securities and fund shares were negligible. although we consider the unrealized losses to be temporary, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges or realized losses on the values of these securities if they do not recover in value within a reasonable period. foreign exchange risk. we manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial counterparties. we utilize such derivative financial instruments for hedging or risk management purposes rather than for speculation purposes. counterparties to our derivative contracts are all major banking institutions. in the event of the financial insolvency or distress of a counterparty to our derivative financial instruments, we may be unable to settle transactions if the counterparty does not provide us with sufficient collateral to secure its net settlement obligations to us, which could have a negative impact on our results. see notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1. the company and its significant accounting policies for a description of our foreign currency accounting policies. at september 28, 2014 , our net asset related to foreign currency option contracts designated as hedges of foreign currency risk (on royalties earned from certain licensees on their sales of cdma-based devices) were negligible. if our forecasted royalty revenues for currencies in which we hedge were to decline by 20% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in our hedged foreign currency, we would not incur a loss as our hedge positions would continue to be fully effective. at september 28, 2014 , our net asset related to foreign currency forwards, futures, options and swaps in our marketable securities portfolios that were not designated as hedging instruments were negligible. if the foreign exchange rates relevant to these contracts were to change unfavorably by 10% and we do not have an offset foreign currency exposure relating to debt instruments held in our marketable securities portfolios classified as trading, we would incur a negligible loss. financial assets and liabilities held by consolidated subsidiaries that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. as a global company, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we may hedge currency exposures associated with certain 42 assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. as a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. while we may hedge certain transactions with non-united states customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate the risks discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks.risk factors 16 risk factors you should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this annual report in evaluating our business and our prospects. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of these risks occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. you should also refer to the other information set forth in this annual report, including our financial statements and the related notes. risks related to our businesses our revenues depend on commercial network deployments, expansions and upgrades of cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies, our customers' and licensees' sales of products and services based on these technologies and our ability to drive our customers' demand for our products and services. we develop, patent and commercialize technology and products based on cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies, which are primarily wireless. we depend on our customers, our licensees and operators of wireless networks to 16 use these technologies in their adoption of our products and services into their devices and networks and on the timing of their deployments of new products and services. we also depend on our customers and licensees to develop products and services with value-added features to drive consumer demand for new 3g, 3g/4g multimode and 4g devices, as well as the selling prices for such devices. further, our rate of revenue growth depends on third parties incorporating our technology, products and/or services into new device types used in industries beyond traditional cellular communications, such as automotive, connected home and wearable uses. our revenues and/or growth in revenues could be negatively impacted, our business may be harmed and our substantial investments in these technologies may not provide us an adequate return, if: wireless operators and industries beyond traditional cellular communications deploy alternative technologies; wireless operators delay 3g and 3g/4g multimode network deployments, expansions or upgrades and/or delay moving 2g customers to 3g, 3g/4g multimode or 4g wireless devices; lte, an ofdma-based 4g wireless technology, is not more widely deployed or further commercial deployment is delayed; government regulators delay making sufficient spectrum available for 3g and/or 3g/4g networks, thereby restricting the expansion of 3g/4g wireless connectivity to keep pace with consumer demand; wireless operators are unable to drive improvements in 3g or 3g/4g multimode network performance and/or capacity; our customers' and licensees' revenues and sales of products, particularly premium-tier products, and services using these technologies do not grow or do not grow as quickly as anticipated due to, for example, the maturity of smartphone penetration in developed regions (where premium-tier products are common) or a reduction in the rate of device replacements by consumers; and/or we are unable to drive the adoption of our products and services into networks and devices based on cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies. our industry is subject to competition in an environment of rapid technological change that could result in decreased demand and/or declining average selling prices for our products and those of our customers and/or licensees and/or result in placing new specifications or requirements on our products, each of which could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. our products, services and technologies face significant competition, and the revenues we generate and/or the timing of such revenues, which depend on deployments and/or actions by others, may not meet expectations. we expect competition to increase as our current competitors expand their product offerings or reduce the prices of their products as part of a strategy to attract new business and/or customers, and as new opportunities develop, any of which would put continued pressure on the pricing of our products and services. competition in wireless communications is affected by various factors that include, among others: device manufacturer concentrations; growth in emerging geographic regions; government intervention; evolving industry standards and business models; evolving methods of transmission of voice and data communications; increasing data traffic and densification of wireless networks; convergence and aggregation of connectivity technologies (including wi-fi and lte) in both devices and access points; consolidation of wireless technologies and infrastructure at the network edge; networking and connectivity trends (including cloud services); the evolving nature of computing (including demand for always on, always connected capabilities); the speed of technological change (including the transition to smaller geometry process technologies); value-added features that drive selling prices as well as consumer demand for new 3g, 3g/4g multimode and 4g devices; turnkey, integrated products that incorporate hardware, software, user interface, applications and reference designs; rapid growth in mobile data consumption; scalability; and the ability of the system technology to meet customers' immediate and future network requirements. we anticipate that additional competitors will introduce products as a result of growth opportunities in wireless communications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in certain segments of the industry. additionally, the semiconductor industry has experienced and may continue to experience consolidation, which could result in significant changes to the competitive landscape. we expect that our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to: differentiate our integrated circuit products with innovative technologies across multiple products and features (e.g., modem, radio frequency front end, central, graphics and/or other processors, camera and connectivity) and with smaller geometry process technologies that drive performance; develop and offer integrated circuit products at competitive cost and price points to effectively cover both emerging and developed geographic regions and all device tiers; 17 continue to drive the adoption of our integrated circuit products into the most popular device models and across a broad spectrum of devices, such as smartphones, tablets, automobiles, wearable and other connected devices and infrastructure products; maintain and/or accelerate demand for our integrated circuit products at the premium device tier, while increasing the adoption of our products in mid- and low-tier devices and in the turnkey product channel, in part by strengthening our integrated circuit product roadmap for, and developing channel relationships in, emerging geographic regions, such as china and india, and by providing turnkey products, which incorporate our integrated circuits, for low- and mid-tier smartphones and tablets; continue to be a leader in 4g technology evolution, including expansion of our lte-based single mode licensing program, and continue to innovate and introduce 4g turnkey, integrated products and services that differentiate us from our competition; be a leader serving original equipment manufacturers, high level operating systems (hlos) providers, operators and other industry participants as competitors, new industry entrants and other factors continue to affect the industry landscape; be a preferred partner (and sustain preferred relationships) providing integrated circuit products that support multiple operating system and infrastructure platforms to industry participants that effectively commercialize new devices using these platforms; increase and/or accelerate demand for our wired and wireless connectivity products, including networking products for consumers, carriers and enterprise equipment and connected devices; identify potential acquisition targets that will grow or sustain our business or address strategic needs, reach agreement on terms acceptable to us and effectively integrate these new businesses and/or technologies; create stand-alone value and/or contribute to the success of our existing businesses through acquisitions and other investments (and/or by developing customer, licensee and/or vendor relationships) in new industry segments and/or disruptive technologies, products and/or services (such as products for the connected home and the internet of things, automotive, networking, mobile computing, mobile health, machine learning, including robotics, and wireless charging, among others); become a leading supplier of radio frequency front end products, which are designed to address cellular radio frequency band fragmentation while improving radio frequency performance and assist original equipment manufacturers in developing multiband, multimode mobile devices; and/or continue to develop brand recognition to effectively compete against better known companies in mobile computing and other consumer driven segments and to deepen our presence in significant emerging geographic regions. competition in any or all product tiers, customer concentration and/or growth in sales of mid- and low-tier products, particularly relative to premium-tier products, may reduce average selling prices for our chipset products and the products of our customers and licensees. certain of these dynamics are particularly pronounced in emerging geographic regions (e.g., china). reductions in the average selling prices of our chipset products, without a corresponding increase in volumes, would negatively impact our revenues, and without corresponding decreases in average unit costs, would negatively impact our margins. in addition, reductions in the average selling prices of our licensees' products, unless offset by an increase in volumes, would generally decrease total royalties payable to us, negatively impacting our licensing revenues. companies that promote standards that are neither cdma- nor ofdma-based (e.g., gsm, wi-fi) as well as companies that design integrated circuits based on cdma, ofdma or their derivatives are generally competitors or potential competitors. examples (some of which are strategic partners of ours in other areas) include airoha technology corp., broadcom, ericsson, hisilicon technologies, intel, marvell technology, maxim integrated products, mediatek, microchip technology inc., nvidia, realtek semiconductor, samsung electronics and spreadtrum communications (which is controlled by tsinghua unigroup). some of these current and potential competitors may have advantages over us that include, among others: lower cost structures; motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to utilize their own internally-developed integrated circuit products or to find alternate suppliers or choose alternative technologies; foreign government support of other technologies or competitors; better known brand names; ownership and control of manufacturing facilities and greater expertise in manufacturing processes; more extensive relationships with local distribution companies and original equipment manufacturers in emerging geographic regions (such as china); and/or a more established presence in certain regions. certain of our software and our suppliers' software may contain or may be derived from open source software, and we have seen, and believe we will continue to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including 18 software associated with our integrated circuit products, that incorporate open source software elements and operate in an open source environment, which, under certain open source licenses, may offer accessibility to a portion of a product's source code and may expose related intellectual property to adverse licensing conditions. licensing of such software may impose certain obligations on us if we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. for example, these obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to our customers in a manner that allows them to make such source code available to their customers, or license such derivative works under a particular type of license that is different than what we customarily use to license our software. developing open source products, while adequately protecting the intellectual property rights upon which our licensing business depends, may prove burdensome and time-consuming under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage. also, our use and our customers' use of open source software may subject our products and our customers' products to governmental scrutiny and delays in product certification, which could cause customers to view our products as less desirable than our competitors' products. while we believe we have taken appropriate steps and employ adequate controls to protect our intellectual property rights, our use of open source software presents risks that could have an adverse effect on these rights and on our business. we derive a significant portion of our consolidated revenues from a small number of customers and licensees. if revenues derived from these customers or licensees decrease or the timing of such revenues fluctuates, our operating results could be negatively affected. our qct segment derives a significant portion of revenues from a small number of customers, and we expect this trend to continue in the foreseeable future. our industry is experiencing and may continue to experience an increasing concentration of device share among a few companies, particularly at the premium tier, contributing to this trend. in addition, certain of our largest integrated circuit customers develop their own integrated circuit products, which they have in the past chosen, and may in the future, choose to utilize in their devices rather than our integrated circuit products (and/or sell their integrated circuit products to third parties in competition with us). the loss of any one of our significant customers, a reduction in the purchases of our products by such customers (due to their vertical integration strategies referenced above or otherwise) or cancelation of significant purchases from any of these customers would reduce our revenues and could harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected operating results, and a delay of significant purchases, even if only temporary, would reduce our revenues in the period of the delay. further, concentration of device share among a few companies, and the corresponding purchasing power of these companies, may result in lower prices for our products which, if not accompanied by a sufficient increase in the volume of purchases of our products, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and margins. in addition, the timing and size of purchases by our significant customers may be impacted by the timing of such customers' new or next generation product introductions, over which we have little or no control, and the timing of such introductions may cause our operating results to fluctuate. accordingly, if current industry dynamics and concentrations continue, our qct segment's revenues will continue to depend largely upon, and be impacted by, future purchases and the timing and size of any such future purchases by these significant customers. in addition, one of our largest customers purchases our mobile data modem (mdm) products, which do not include our integrated application processor technology. to the extent such customer takes device share from our other customers who purchase our integrated modem and application processor products, which have higher revenue and margin contribution than our mdm products, our revenues and margins may be negatively impacted. further, companies that develop hlos for devices, including leading technology companies, now sell their own devices. if we fail to effectively partner or continue partnering with these companies, or with their partners or customers, they may decide not to purchase (either directly or through their contract manufacturers), or to reduce or discontinue their purchases of, our integrated circuit products. in addition, there has been and continues to be litigation among certain of our customers and other industry participants, and the potential outcomes of such litigation, including but not limited to injunctions against devices that incorporate our products and/or intellectual property or rulings on certain patent law or patent licensing issues that create new legal precedent, could impact our business, particularly if such action impacts one of our larger customers. although we have more than 285 cdma-based licensees, our qtl segment derives a significant portion of licensing revenues from a limited number of licensees. in the event that one or more of our significant licensees fail to meet their reporting and/or payment requirements or we are unable to renew or modify one or more of such license agreements, our revenues, operating results and cash flows would be adversely impacted. moreover, the future growth and success of our core licensing business will depend in part on the ability of our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver high-volume products that achieve and sustain customer acceptance. we have little or no control over the product development, sales efforts or pricing of products by our licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. reductions in the average selling prices of wireless devices sold by our major licensees, without a sufficient increase in the volumes of such devices sold, would generally have an adverse effect on our licensing revenues. 19 efforts by some communications equipment manufacturers or their customers to avoid paying fair and reasonable royalties for the use of our intellectual property may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources and may result in legal decisions and/or actions by governments, courts, regulators or agencies, standards development organizations (sdos) or other industry organizations that harm our business. from time to time, companies initiate various strategies to attempt to renegotiate, mitigate and/or eliminate their need to pay royalties to us for the use of our intellectual property. these strategies have included: (i) litigation, often alleging infringement of patents held by such companies, patent misuse, patent exhaustion, patent invalidity and/or unenforceability of our patents and/or licenses, or some form of unfair competition; (ii) taking positions contrary to our understanding of their contracts with us; (iii) appeals to governmental authorities; (iv) collective action, including working with wireless operators, standards bodies, other like-minded companies and other organizations, on both formal and informal bases, to adopt intellectual property policies and practices that could have the effect of limiting returns on intellectual property innovations; (v) lobbying governmental regulators and elected officials for the purpose of seeking the imposition of some form of compulsory licensing and/or to weaken a patent holder's ability to enforce its rights or obtain a fair return for such rights; and (vi) licensees using various strategies to attempt to shift their royalty obligation to their suppliers that results in lowering the wholesale (i.e., licensee's) selling price on which the royalty is calculated. in addition, particularly in china, certain licensees have disputed or underreported royalties owed to us under their license agreements with us, and certain companies have yet to enter into or delayed entering into license agreements with us for their use of our intellectual property, and such licensees and/or companies may continue to do so in the future. further, to the extent such licensees and/or companies increase their device share, the negative impact of their underreporting and/or non-reporting on our business and operating results will be exacerbated. we are currently subject to various litigation and governmental investigations and/or proceedings, some of which may arise out of the strategies described above. certain legal matters are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. depending on the type of matter, various remedies that could result from an unfavorable resolution include, among others, injunctions, monetary damages or fines or other orders to pay money and the issuance of orders to cease certain conduct and/or modify our business practices. in addition, in connection with our participation in sdos, we, like other patent owners, generally have made contractual commitments to such organizations to license those of our patents that would necessarily be infringed by standard-compliant products (standard-essential patents) on terms that are fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory (frand). some manufacturers and users of standard-compliant products advance interpretations of these frand commitments that are adverse to our licensing business, including interpretations that would limit the amount of royalties that we could collect on the licensing of our patent portfolio. further, some companies or entities have proposed significant changes to existing intellectual property policies for implementation by sdos and other industry organizations with the goal of significantly devaluing standard-essential patents. for example, some have put forth proposals which would require a maximum aggregate intellectual property royalty rate for the use of all standard-essential patents owned by all of the member companies to be applied to the selling price of any product implementing the relevant standard. they have further proposed that such maximum aggregate royalty rate be apportioned to each member company with standard-essential patents based upon the number of standard-essential patents held by such company. others have proposed that injunctions not be an available remedy for infringement of standard-essential patents and/or have made proposals that could severely limit damage awards and other remedies by courts for patent infringement (e.g., by severely limiting the base upon which the royalty percentage may be applied). a number of these strategies are purportedly based on interpretations of the policies of certain sdos concerning the licensing of patents that are or may be essential to industry standards and on our (and/or other companies') alleged failure to abide by these policies. some sdos, courts and governmental agencies have adopted and may in the future adopt some or all of these interpretations or proposals in a manner adverse to our interests, including in litigation to which we may not be a party. we expect that such proposals, interpretations and strategies will continue in the future, and if successful, our business model would be harmed, either by limiting or eliminating our ability to collect royalties on all or a portion of our patent portfolio, limiting our return on investment with respect to new technologies, limiting our ability to seek injunctions against infringers of our standard-essential patents, constraining our ability to make licensing commitments when submitting our technology for inclusion in future standards (which could make our technology less likely to be included in such standards) or forcing us to work outside of sdos or other industry groups to promote our new technologies, and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. in addition, the legal and other costs associated with asserting or defending our 20 positions have been and continue to be significant. we assume that such challenges, regardless of their merits, will continue into the foreseeable future and may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources. the enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive, could fail to prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary intellectual property rights, could result in the loss of our ability to enforce one or more patents, or could be adversely affected by changes in patent laws, by laws in certain foreign jurisdictions that may not effectively protect our intellectual property rights or by ineffective enforcement of laws in such jurisdictions. we rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, international treaties and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes, including our patent portfolio. policing unauthorized use of our products, technologies and proprietary information is difficult and time consuming. we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken, or may take in the future, have prevented or will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary intellectual property rights as fully or as readily as united states laws or where the enforcement of such laws may be lacking or ineffective. some industry participants who have a vested interest in devaluing patents in general, or standard-essential patents in particular, have mounted attacks on certain patent systems, increasing the likelihood of changes to established patent laws. in the united states, there is continued discussion regarding potential patent law changes. the laws in certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including certain countries in asia, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws in the united states. we expect that the european union will adopt a unitary patent system in the next few years that may broadly impact that region's patent regime. we cannot predict with certainty the long-term effects of any potential changes. in addition, we cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country or the practices of any standards bodies, foreign or domestic, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing or the adoption of standards, will not be changed in the future in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. we have had and may in the future have difficulty in certain circumstances in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights and/or contracts, including collecting royalties for use of our patent portfolio in particular foreign jurisdictions due to, among others: policies of foreign governments; challenges to our licensing practices under such jurisdictions' competition laws; adoption of mandatory licensing provisions by foreign jurisdictions (either with controlled/regulated royalties or royalty free); failure of foreign courts to recognize and enforce judgments of contract breach and damages issued by courts in the united states; and/or challenges pending before foreign competition agencies to the pricing and integration of additional features and functionality into our chipset products. particularly in china, certain licensees have disputed or underreported royalties owed to us under their license agreements with us, and certain companies have yet to enter into or delayed entering into license agreements for their use of our intellectual property, and such licensees and/or companies may continue to do so in the future. additionally, although our license agreements provide us with the right to audit the books and records of licensees, audits can be expensive, time consuming, incomplete and subject to dispute. further, certain licensees may not comply with the obligation to provide full access to their books and records. to the extent we do not aggressively enforce our rights under our license agreements, licensees may not comply with their existing license agreements, and to the extent we do not aggressively pursue unlicensed companies to enter into license agreements with us for their use of our intellectual property, other unlicensed companies may not enter into license agreements. we may need to litigate in the united states, china, india or elsewhere in the world to enforce our contract and/or intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. as a result of any such litigation, we could lose our ability to enforce one or more patents, portions of our license agreements could be determined to be invalid or unenforceable (which may in turn result in other licensees either not complying with their existing license agreements and/or initiating litigation) and/or we could incur substantial unexpected operating costs. any action we take to enforce our contract or intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. further, even a positive resolution to our enforcement efforts may take time to conclude, which may reduce our revenues in the period prior to conclusion. the continued and future success of our licensing programs can be impacted by the deployment of other technologies in place of technologies based on cdma, ofdma and their derivatives; the need to extend certain existing license agreements that are expiring and/or to cover additional later patents; and/or the success of our licensing programs for 4g single mode products and emerging industry segments. although we own a very strong portfolio of issued and pending patents related to gsm, gprs, edge, ofdm, ofdma, wlan, mimo and other technologies, our patent portfolio licensing program in these areas is less established and might not be as successful in generating licensing revenues as our cdma licensing program has been. many wireless 21 operators are investigating, have selected or have deployed ofdma-based lte as their next-generation 4g technology in existing (or future if not yet deployed) wireless spectrum bands as complementary to their existing cdma-based networks. while 3g/4g multimode products are generally covered by our existing 3g licensing agreements, products that implement 4g but do not also implement 3g are generally not covered by these agreements. although we believe that our patented technology is essential and useful to implementation of the lte industry standards and have granted royalty-bearing licenses to more than 155 companies (including alcatel-lucent, huawei, lg, microsoft, samsung, sony mobile and zte) that have realized that they need a license to our patents to make and sell products implementing 4g standards but not implementing 3g standards, it may be difficult to agree on material terms and/or conditions of new license agreements that are acceptable to us with companies that are currently unlicensed, particularly in china. further, the royalty rates for single mode 4g products are generally lower than our royalty rates for 3g and 3g/4g multimode products have been, and therefore, we might not achieve the same licensing revenues on such lte products as on 3g and 3g/4g multimode products. in addition, new connectivity and other services are emerging that rely on devices that may or may not be used on traditional cellular networks, such as devices used in the connected home or the internet of things. we also seek to diversify and broaden our technology licensing programs to new industry segments in which we can utilize our technology leadership, such as wireless charging and other technologies. standards, even de facto standards, that develop as these technologies mature, in particular those that do not include a base level of interoperability, may impact our ability to obtain royalties that are equivalent to those that we receive for 3g and 3g/4g multimode products used in cellular communications. although we believe that our patented technology is essential and useful to the commercialization of such services, the royalties we receive may be lower than those we receive from our current licensing program. over the long-term, we need to continue to evolve our patent portfolio. if we do not maintain a strong portfolio that is applicable to current and/or future products and/or services, our future licensing revenues could be negatively impacted. the licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date and, in a small number of agreements, royalties are payable on those patents for a specified time period. as a result, there are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us and/or royalties are not owed to us under such license agreements after the specified time period. additionally, certain license agreements are effective for a specified term. in order to license or to obtain a license to such later patents or after the expiration of a specified term, or to receive royalties after the specified time period, we will need to extend or modify such license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees. we might not be able to modify those license agreements, or enter into new license agreements, in the future without affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees, and such modifications or new agreements may negatively impact our revenues. if there is a delay in renewing a license agreement prior to its expiration, there would be a delay in our ability to recognize revenues related to that licensee's product sales. further, if we are unable to reach agreement on such modifications or new agreements, it could result in patent infringement litigation with such companies. we are subject to government regulations and policies. our business may suffer as a result of new or changed laws, regulations or policies, our failure or inability to comply with laws, regulations or policies or adverse rulings in enforcement or other proceedings. our business, products and services, and those of our customers and licensees, are subject to various laws and regulations globally, as well as government policies and the specifications of international, national and regional communications standards bodies. the adoption of new laws, regulations or policies, changes in the interpretation of existing laws, regulations or policies, changes in the regulation of our activities by a government or standards body and/or adverse rulings in court, regulatory, administrative or other proceedings relating to such laws, regulations or policies, including, among others, those affecting licensing practices, competitive business practices, the use of our technology or products, protection of intellectual property, trade, foreign investments or loans, spectrum availability and license issuance, adoption of standards, the provision of device subsidies by wireless operators to their customers, taxation, privacy and data protection, environmental protection or employment, could have an adverse effect on our business. we are currently subject to various governmental investigations and/or proceedings, and certain matters are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. depending on the type of matter, various remedies that could result from an unfavorable resolution include, among others, injunctions, monetary damages or fines or other orders to pay money, and the issuance of orders to cease certain conduct and/or modify our business practices. delays in government approvals or other governmental activities that could result from, among others, a decrease in or a lack of funding for certain agencies or branches of the government and/or political changes, could result in our incurring 22 higher costs, could negatively impact our ability to timely consummate strategic transactions and/or could have other negative impacts on our business and the businesses of our customers and licensees. national, state and local environmental laws and regulations affect our operations around the world. these laws may make it more expensive to manufacture, have manufactured and sell products, and our costs could increase if our vendors (e.g., third-party manufacturers or utility companies) pass on their costs to us. regulations in the united states require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the democratic republic of the congo (drc) or an adjoining country, or were from recycled or scrap sources. the verification and reporting requirements, in addition to customer demands for conflict free sourcing, impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products. further, if we are unable to determine that our products are drc conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers that place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed. laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, business conduct, public disclosure and health care are complex and changing and may create uncertainty regarding compliance. laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases, and their application in practice may evolve over time. as a result, our efforts to comply may fail, particularly if there is ambiguity as to how they should be applied in practice. new laws, regulations and standards or evolving interpretations of legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and/or procedures and may divert management time and attention to compliance activities. our research, development and other investments in new technologies, products and services may not generate operating income or contribute to future operating results that meet our expectations. our industry is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions, and we must make substantial research, development and other investments, such as acquisitions, in new products, services and technologies to compete successfully. technological innovations generally require significant research and development efforts before they are commercially viable. our future growth significantly depends on third parties incorporating our technology, products and/or services into new device types used in industries beyond traditional cellular communications, such as automotive, connected home and wearable uses. accordingly, we intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing new products, services and technologies that we believe can create stand-alone value and/or contribute to the success of our existing businesses. however, it is possible that these initiatives will not be successful and/or will not result in meaningful revenues or generate operating income that meets expectations. as a result, we may develop products that fail to meet our customers' needs and/or develop products that may become obsolete and be replaced by competitors' products offering more compelling features, technologies or costs. while we continue to focus our development efforts primarily in support of 3g cdma- and 4g ofdma-based technologies, we innovate across a broad spectrum of opportunities to deploy new business models and enter into new industry segments by leveraging our existing technical and business expertise and/or through acquisitions. our recent investment initiatives relate to, among others, products for the connected home and the internet of things; automotive; networking; mobile computing; small cells and addressing the challenge of meeting the increased demand for data; very high speed connectivity; data centers; mobile health; wireless charging; and machine learning, including robotics. our research, development and other investments in new technologies, products or services may not succeed due to, among others: improvements in alternate technologies in ways that reduce the advantages we anticipate from our investments; competitors' products or services being more cost effective, having more capabilities or fewer limitations or being brought to market faster than our new products and services; and competitors having longer operating histories in industry segments that are new to us. we may also underestimate the costs of or overestimate the future operating income and/or margins that could result from these investments, and these investments may not, or may take many years to, generate material returns. if our new technologies, products or services are not successful, or are not successful in the time frame we anticipate, we may incur significant costs and/or asset impairments, our business may not grow as anticipated, our revenues and/or margins may be negatively impacted and/or our reputation may be harmed. we depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for the procurement, manufacture and testing of our products. if we fail to execute supply strategies that provide supply assurance, technology leadership and low cost, our operating results and our business may be harmed. we are also subject to order and shipment uncertainties that could negatively impact our operating results. our qct segment utilizes a fabless production model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. we employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing models to purchase our integrated circuits. turnkey is when our foundry suppliers are responsible for 23 delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. under the two-stage manufacturing model, we purchase die in singular or wafer form from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-party suppliers for manufacturing services such as wafer bump, probe, assembly and final test. the third-party semiconductor manufacturing foundries that supply products to our qct segment are primarily located in asia. the following could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands and/or negatively impact our revenues, business operations, profitability and/or cash flows: a reduction, interruption, delay or limitation in our product supply sources; a failure by our suppliers to procure raw materials or to provide or allocate adequate manufacturing or test capacity for our products; our suppliers' inability to react to shifts in product demand or an increase in raw material or component prices; the loss of a supplier or the inability of a supplier to meet performance or quality specifications or delivery schedules; and/or additional expense and/or production delays as a result of qualifying a new supplier and commencing volume production or testing in the event of a loss of or a decision to add or change a supplier. while we have established alternate suppliers for certain technologies, we rely on sole- or limited-source suppliers for certain products, subjecting us to significant risks, including: possible shortages of raw materials or manufacturing capacity; poor product performance; and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability and yields, quality assurance, quantity and costs. to the extent we have established alternate suppliers, these suppliers may require significant levels of support to bring complex technologies to production. as a result, we may invest a significant amount of effort and resources and incur higher costs to support and maintain such alternate suppliers. further, any future consolidation of foundry suppliers could increase our vulnerability to sole- or limited-source arrangements and reduce our suppliers' willingness to negotiate pricing, which could negatively impact our ability to achieve cost reductions and/or increase our manufacturing costs. our arrangements with our suppliers may obligate us to incur costs to manufacture and test our products that do not decrease at the same rate as decreases in pricing to our customers. our ability, and that of our suppliers, to develop or maintain leading process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies, and to effectively compete with the manufacturing processes and performance of our competitors, could impact our ability to introduce new products and meet customer demand, could increase our costs (possibly decreasing our margins) and could subject us to the risk of excess inventories. our inability to meet customer demand due to sole- or limited-sourcing and/or the additional costs that we incur because of these or other supply constraints or because of the need to support alternate suppliers could negatively impact our business, our revenues and our results of operations. although we have long-term contracts with our suppliers, many of these contracts do not provide for long-term capacity commitments. to the extent we do not have firm commitments from our suppliers over a specific time period or for any specific quantity, our suppliers may allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production and testing of products for their other customers while reducing or limiting capacity to manufacture or test our products. accordingly, capacity for our products may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. to the extent we do obtain long-term capacity commitments, we may incur additional costs related to those commitments and/or make non-refundable payments for capacity commitments that are not used. one or more of our suppliers or potential alternate suppliers may manufacture cdma- or ofdma-based integrated circuits that compete with our products. in this event, the supplier could elect to allocate raw materials and manufacturing capacity to their own products and reduce or limit deliveries to us to our detriment. in addition, we may not receive reasonable pricing, manufacturing or delivery terms. we cannot guarantee that the actions of our suppliers will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost of sales. additionally, we place orders with our suppliers using our forecasts of customer demand, which are based on a number of assumptions and estimates, and are generally only partially covered by commitments from our customers. if we overestimate customer demand, we may experience increased excess and/or obsolete inventory, which would negatively impact our operating results. claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property could adversely affect our business. from time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights against our products or products using our technologies or other technologies used in our industry. these claims have resulted and may again result in our involvement in litigation. we may not prevail in such litigation given, among other 24 factors, the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if any of our products or services were found to infringe on another company's intellectual property rights, we could be subject to an injunction or be required to redesign our products or services, which could be costly, or to license such rights and/or pay damages or other compensation to such other company. if we are unable to redesign our products or services, license such intellectual property rights used in our products or services or otherwise distribute our products through a licensed supplier, we could be prohibited from making and selling such products or providing such services. in any potential dispute involving other companies' patents or other intellectual property, our chipset foundries, semiconductor assembly and test providers and customers could also become the targets of litigation. we are contingently liable under certain product sales, services, license and other agreements to indemnify certain customers against certain types of liability and/or damages arising from qualifying claims of patent infringement by products or services sold or provided by us. reimbursements under indemnification arrangements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. furthermore, any such litigation could severely disrupt the supply of our products and the businesses of our chipset customers and their customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our chipset sales and/or reductions in our licensees' sales, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. any claims, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming to address, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. we expect that we may continue to be involved in litigation and may have to appear in front of administrative bodies (such as the united states international trade commission) to defend against patent assertions against our products by companies, some of whom are attempting to gain competitive advantage or leverage in licensing negotiations. we may not be successful in such proceedings, and if we are not, the range of possible outcomes is very broad and may include, for example, monetary damages, royalty payments and/or an injunction on the sale of certain of our integrated circuit products (and on the sale of our customers' devices using such products). a negative outcome in any such proceeding could severely disrupt the business of our chipset customers and their wireless operator customers, which in turn could harm our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our worldwide chipset sales and/or a reduction in our licensees' sales to wireless operators, causing corresponding declines in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. a number of other companies have claimed to own patents applicable to products implementing various cdma-based standards, tdma-based standards such as gsm and ofdma-based standards. in addition, existing standards continue to evolve, and new standards, including those applicable to new industry segments, continue to be developed. if future standards diminish, or fail to include, a base level of interoperability, our business may be harmed, and our investments in these new segments may not succeed. we may engage in acquisitions or strategic transactions or make strategic investments that could adversely affect our financial results or fail to enhance stockholder value. we engage in acquisitions and strategic transactions and make strategic investments, which are important to our business strategy, with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. we acquire businesses and other assets, including patents, technology, wireless spectrum and other intangible assets, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase minority equity interests in or make loans to companies that may be private and early-stage. our strategic activities are generally focused on opening new or expanding opportunities for our technologies and supporting the design and introduction of new products and services (or enhancing existing products or services) for voice and data communications. many of our acquisitions or strategic investments entail a high degree of risk and require the use of domestic and/or foreign capital, and investments may not become liquid for several years after the date of the investment, if at all. our acquisitions or strategic investments may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies, products or services. in some cases, we may be required to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of companies in which we have acquired ownership interests. in addition, we may record impairment charges related to our acquisitions or strategic investments. any losses or impairment charges that we incur related to strategic investments or other transactions will have a negative impact on our financial results, and we may continue to incur new or additional losses related to strategic assets or investments that we have not fully impaired or exited. achieving the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions depends in part upon our ability to integrate the acquired businesses in an efficient and effective manner. the integration of companies that have previously operated independently involves significant challenges, including, among others: retaining key employees; successfully integrating new employees, business systems, technology and products; retaining customers and suppliers of the acquired business; consolidating research and development and/or supply operations; minimizing the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business matters; and consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. we may not derive any commercial value from acquired technologies or products or from future technologies or products based on the acquired technologies, and we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by indemnification protection that we may obtain, or we may become subject 25 to litigation. additionally, we may not be successful in expanding into geographic regions and/or categories of products served by or adjacent to an acquired business or in addressing potential new opportunities that may arise out of the combination. in part due to our inexperience with technologies and/or products of and/or geographic regions served by acquired businesses, we may underestimate the costs and/or overestimate the benefits, including product and other synergies and growth opportunities that we expect to realize, and we may not achieve them. if we do not achieve the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions, our results of operations may be adversely affected, and we may not enhance stockholder value by engaging in these transactions. if we are unsuccessful in executing our strategic realignment plan, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. on july 22, 2015, we announced a strategic realignment plan designed to improve execution, enhance financial performance and drive profitable growth as we work to create sustainable long-term value for stockholders. as part of this strategic realignment plan, among other actions, we are implementing a cost reduction plan, which includes a series of targeted reductions across our businesses, particularly in our semiconductor business, qct, and a reduction to our annual share-based compensation grants in fiscal 2016. we expect these cost reduction initiatives to be fully implemented by the end of fiscal 2016. additional information regarding our strategic realignment plan is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 10. strategic realignment plan. we cannot provide assurance that our strategic realignment plan will be successful, that anticipated cost savings will be realized, that our operations, business and financial results will improve and/or that these efforts will not disrupt our operations (beyond what is intended). our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits within the expected time frames is subject to many estimates and assumptions, which are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. further, we may experience delays in the timing of these efforts and/or higher than expected or unanticipated costs in implementing them. moreover, changes in the size, alignment or organization of our workforce could adversely affect employee morale and retention, relations with customers and business partners, our ability to develop and deliver products and services as anticipated and/or impair our ability to realize our current or future business and financial objectives. if we do not succeed in these efforts, if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, if our estimates and assumptions are not correct, if we experience delays or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. our stock price and earnings are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market downturns. our stock price and earnings have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock and/or earnings include those identified throughout this risk factors section, volatility of the stock market in general and technology-based companies in particular, announcements concerning us, our suppliers, our competitors or our customers and variations between our actual results or guidance and expectations of securities analysts, among others. further, increased volatility in the financial markets and/or overall economic conditions may reduce the amounts that we realize in the future on our cash equivalents and/or marketable securities and may reduce our earnings as a result of any impairment charges that we record to reduce recorded values of marketable securities to their fair values. in the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. due to changes in our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. securities litigation could result in substantial uninsured costs and divert management's attention and our resources. there are risks associated with our indebtedness. our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur may have negative consequences, including, among others: requiring us to use cash to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends or other general corporate and other purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and/or increasing our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations to the extent a portion of our debt has variable interest rates. our ability to make payments of principal of and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which is subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors, many of which are 26 beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to, among other things: repatriate funds to the united states at substantial tax cost; refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures; or sell selected assets. such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. in addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all, and if prevailing interest rates at the time of any such financing and/or refinancing are higher than our current rates, interest expense related to such financing and/or refinancing would increase. if there are adverse changes in the ratings assigned to our debt securities by credit rating agencies, our borrowing costs, our ability to access debt in the future and/or the terms of the financing could be adversely affected. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel and on our ability to continue to identify, attract, retain and motivate them, particularly in an environment of cost reductions, including equity compensation and headcount. implementing our business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, as our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. the market for employees in our industry is extremely competitive. further, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the united states, making the pool of available talent even smaller. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our business may be harmed. currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues, harm our ability to collect receivables or increase the u.s. dollar cost of our products or the activities of our foreign subsidiaries and strategic investments. our customers sell their products throughout the world in various currencies. our consolidated revenues from international customers as a percentage of our total revenues were greater than 90% during each of the last three fiscal years. adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business and our operating results due to a number of factors, including, among others: our products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold outside the united states may become less price-competitive, which may result in reduced demand for those products and/or downward pressure on average selling prices; certain of our revenues, such as royalties, that are derived from licensee or customer sales denominated in foreign currencies could decrease; our foreign suppliers may raise their prices if they are impacted by currency fluctuations, resulting in higher than expected costs and lower margins; and/or foreign exchange hedging transactions that we engage in to reduce the impact of currency fluctuations may require the payment of structuring fees, limit the u.s. dollar value of royalties from licensees' sales that are denominated in foreign currencies, cause earnings volatility if the hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting and expose us to counterparty risk if the counterparty fails to perform. global economic conditions that impact the mobile communications industry could negatively affect the demand for our products and services and our customers' or licensees' products and services, which may negatively affect our revenues. a decline in global economic conditions or a slow-down in economic growth, particularly in geographic regions with high concentrations of wireless voice and data users, could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products and services of our customers or licensees, particularly equipment manufacturers or others in the wireless communications industry who buy their products, such as wireless operators. any prolonged economic downturn may result in a decrease in demand for our products or technologies; the insolvency of key suppliers; delays in reporting and/or payments from our licensees and/or customers; failures by counterparties; and negative effects on wireless device inventories. in addition, our customers' ability to purchase or pay for our products and services and network operators' ability to upgrade their wireless networks could be adversely affected by economic conditions, leading to a reduction, cancelation or delay of orders for our products or services. failures in our products or services or in the products or services of our customers or licensees, including those resulting from security vulnerabilities, defects or errors, could harm our business. the use of devices containing our products to access untrusted content creates a risk of exposing the system software in those devices to viral or malicious attacks. while we continue to focus on this issue and are taking measures to safeguard our products from cybersecurity threats, device capabilities continue to evolve, enabling more data and processes, such as mobile computing, and increasing the risk of security failures. further, our products are inherently complex and may contain defects 27 or errors that are detected only when the products are in use. as our chipset product complexities increase, we are required to migrate to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes. the design process interface in new domains of technology is complex and adds risk to manufacturing yields and reliability. further, manufacturing, testing, marketing and use of our products and those of our customers and licensees entail the risk of product liability. because our products and services are responsible for critical functions in our customers' products and/or networks, security failures, defects or errors in our products and services could have an adverse impact on us, on our customers and on the end users of our customers' products. such adverse impact could include product liability claims or recalls, write-offs of our inventories and/or intangible assets; unfavorable purchase commitments; a shift of business to our competitors; a decrease in demand for connected devices and wireless services, damage to our reputation and to our customer relationships and other financial liability or harm to our business. our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches. attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are increasingly more sophisticated. these attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. we seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. while we have identified several incidents of unauthorized access, to date none have caused material damage to our business. the theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives and/or otherwise adversely affect our business. to the extent any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers' or licensees' confidential information, we may incur liability. we expect to continue to devote resources to the security of our information technology systems. potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including singapore where our qct segment's non-united states headquarters is located. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could materially differ from amounts reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. in such case, our income tax provision and results of operations in the period or periods in which that determination is made could be negatively affected. we have tax incentives in singapore provided that we meet specified employment and other criteria, and as a result of expiration of these incentives, our singapore tax rate is expected to increase in fiscal 2017 and again in fiscal 2027. if we do not meet the criteria required to retain such incentives, our singapore tax rate could increase prior to those dates, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. tax rules may change in a manner that adversely affects our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. for example, we consider the operating earnings of certain non-united states subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside the united states based on our current needs for those earnings to be reinvested offshore as well as estimates that future domestic cash generated from operations and/or borrowings will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs for the foreseeable future. no provision has been made for united states federal, state or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries. our future financial results and liquidity may be adversely affected if tax rules regarding unrepatriated earnings change, if domestic cash needs require us to repatriate foreign earnings, if the shares of these foreign subsidiaries were sold or otherwise transferred or if the united states international tax rules change as part of comprehensive tax reform or other tax legislation. if our effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the united states or singapore, our operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk - debt and interest rate swap agreements. in fiscal 2015, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $10.0 billion of unsecured floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturity dates. we also entered into interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $3.0 billion to effectively convert certain fixed-rate interest payments into floating-rate payments. the interest rates on our floating-rate notes and interest rate swaps are based on libor. by issuing the floating-rate notes and entering into the interest rate swap agreements, we have assumed risks associated with variable interest rates based upon libor. at september 27, 2015 , a hypothetical increase in libor-based interest rates of 100 basis points would cause our interest expense to increase by $30 million on an annualized basis as it relates to our floating-rate notes and the interest rate swap agreements. additionally, in fiscal 2015, we began a commercial paper program that provides for the issuance of up to $4.0 billion of commercial paper. at september 27, 2015 , we had $1.0 billion of commercial paper outstanding, with original maturities of less than 4 months. changes in interest rates could affect the amounts of interest that we pay if we refinance the current outstanding commercial paper with new debt. additional information regarding our notes and related interest rate swap agreements and commercial paper program is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1. the company and its significant accounting policies and notes to consolidated financial statements, note 6. debt. interest rate risk - investment portfolio. we invest a portion of our cash in a number of diversified fixed and floating rate securities, consisting of cash equivalents, marketable debt securities, debt funds and derivative instruments related to our investment portfolio (including interest rate swaps) that are subject to interest rate risk. changes in the general level of interest rates can affect the fair value of our investment portfolio. if interest rates in the general economy were to rise, our holdings could lose value. at september 27, 2015 , a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 basis points across the entire yield curve on our holdings would have resulted in decreases of $11 million and $323 million in the fair values of our holdings classified as trading (including derivative instruments) and our remaining holdings, respectively. equity price risk. we hold a diversified marketable securities portfolio that includes equity securities and fund shares that are subject to equity price risk. we have made investments in marketable equity securities of companies of varying size, style, industry and geography, and changes in investment allocations may affect the price volatility of our investments. a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and fund shares at september 27, 2015 would have caused a decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities of $163 million. at september 27, 2015 , gross unrealized losses of our marketable equity securities and fund shares were $28 million. although we consider the unrealized losses to be temporary, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges or realized losses on the values of these securities if they do not recover in value within a reasonable period. 45 foreign exchange risk. we manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial counterparties. we utilize such derivative financial instruments for hedging or risk management purposes rather than for speculation purposes. counterparties to our derivative contracts are all major banking institutions. in the event of the financial insolvency or distress of a counterparty to our derivative financial instruments, we may be unable to settle transactions if the counterparty does not provide us with sufficient collateral to secure its net settlement obligations to us, which could have a negative impact on our results. a description of our foreign currency accounting policies is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1. the company and its significant accounting policies. at september 27, 2015 , our net asset related to foreign currency option and forward contracts designated as hedges of foreign currency risk (on royalties earned from certain licensees on their sales of cdma-based devices) was negligible. if our forecasted royalty revenues for currencies in which we hedge were to decline by 20% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in our hedged foreign currency, we would not incur a loss as our hedge positions would continue to be fully effective. at september 27, 2015 , our net liability related to foreign currency option and forward contracts designated as hedges of foreign currency risk (on certain operating expenditure transactions) was negligible. if our forecasted operating expenditures for currencies in which we hedge were to decline by 20% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in our hedged foreign currency, we would incur a negligible loss. at september 27, 2015 , our net asset related to foreign currency forwards, futures, options and swaps in our marketable securities portfolios that were not designated as hedging instruments was negligible. if the foreign exchange rates relevant to these contracts were to change unfavorably by 10% and we do not have an offset foreign currency exposure relating to debt instruments held in our marketable securities portfolios classified as trading, we would incur a negligible loss. financial assets and liabilities held by consolidated subsidiaries that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. as a global company, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. as a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. while we may hedge certain transactions with non-united states customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate the risks discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks.risk factors 17 risk factors you should consider each of the following factors in evaluating our business and our prospects. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. if any of these risks occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. you should also consider the other information set forth in this annual report in evaluating our business and our prospects, including but not limited to our financial statements and the related notes, and part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. risks related to our businesses our proposed acquisition of nxp involves a number of risks, including, among others, the risk that we fail to complete the acquisition, in a timely manner or at all, regulatory risks, risks associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash and our taking on significant indebtedness, other financial risks, integration risks, and risk associated with the reactions of customers, suppliers and employees. our and nxp's obligations to consummate the proposed transaction are subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including, among others: (i) the tender of a minimum number of nxp's outstanding common shares in the tender offer to be commenced by a subsidiary of qualcomm incorporated; (ii) the expiration or termination of any waiting periods under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended; (iii) the receipt of regulatory clearance under european union and certain other foreign antitrust laws; (iv) the absence of any law or order prohibiting the proposed transaction; (v) there being no event that would have a material adverse effect on nxp; (vi) the accuracy of the representations and warranties of nxp, subject to certain exceptions, and nxp's material compliance with its covenants, in the definitive agreement; (vii) the approval of certain governance-related resolutions at an extraordinary general meeting of nxp's shareholders; and (viii) the completion of certain internal reorganization steps with respect to nxp and the disposition of certain non-core assets of nxp. we cannot provide assurance that the conditions to the completion of the proposed transaction will be satisfied in a timely manner or at all, and if the proposed transaction is not completed, we would not realize any of the expected benefits. the regulatory approvals required in connection with the proposed transaction may not be obtained or may contain materially burdensome conditions. if any conditions or changes to the structure of the proposed transaction are required to obtain these regulatory approvals, they may have the effect of jeopardizing or delaying completion of the proposed transaction or reducing our anticipated benefits. if we agree to any material conditions in order to obtain any approvals required to complete the proposed transaction, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. 17 in addition, the use of a significant portion of our cash and the incurrence of substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of the proposed transaction may have an adverse impact on our liquidity, limit our flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. see the risk factor entitled there are risks associated with our indebtedness . if the proposed transaction is not completed, our stock price could fall to the extent that our current price reflects an assumption that we will complete it. furthermore, if the proposed transaction is not completed and the purchase agreement is terminated, we would not realize any of the expected benefits of the proposed transaction, and we may suffer other consequences that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and stock price, including, among others: we could be required to pay a termination fee to nxp of $2.0 billion ; we will have incurred and may continue to incur costs relating to the proposed transaction, many of which are payable by us whether or not the proposed transaction is completed; matters relating to the proposed transaction (including integration planning) require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management team and numerous others throughout our organization, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities; we may be subject to legal proceedings related to the proposed transaction or the failure to complete the proposed transaction; the failure to consummate the proposed transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative perception of us in the investment community; and any disruptions to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the proposed transaction, including any adverse changes in our relationships with our customers, suppliers, partners or employees, may continue or intensify in the event the proposed transaction is not consummated. the proposed transaction will be our largest acquisition to date, by a significant margin. the benefits we expect to realize from the proposed transaction will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the businesses successfully and efficiently. see the risk factor entitled we may engage in strategic acquisitions, transactions or make investments that could adversely affect our financial results or fail to enhance stockholder value . furthermore, uncertainties about the proposed transaction may cause our and/or nxp's current and prospective employees to experience uncertainty about their futures. these uncertainties may impair our and/or nxp's ability to retain, recruit or motivate key management, engineering, technical and other personnel. similarly, our and/or nxp's existing or prospective customers, licensees, suppliers and/or partners may delay, defer or cease purchasing products or services from or providing products or services to us or nxp; delay or defer other decisions concerning us or nxp; or otherwise seek to change the terms on which they do business with us or nxp. any of the above could harm us and/or nxp, and thus decrease the benefits we expect to receive from the proposed transaction. the proposed transaction may also result in significant charges or other liabilities that could adversely affect our financial results, such as cash expenses and non-cash accounting charges incurred in connection with our acquisition and/or integration of the business and operations of nxp. further, our failure to identify or accurately assess the magnitude of certain liabilities we are assuming in the proposed transaction could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting charges, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition. the price of our common stock following the proposed transaction could decline to the extent our financial results are materially affected by any of these events. our revenues depend on commercial network deployments, expansions and upgrades of cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies; our customers' and licensees' sales of products and services based on these technologies; and customers' demand for our products and services. we develop, patent and commercialize technology and products based on cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies, which are primarily wireless. we depend on operators of wireless networks and our customers and licensees to adopt these technologies for use in their networks, devices and services. we also depend on our customers and licensees to develop devices and services based on these technologies with value-added features to drive consumer demand for new 3g, 3g/4g multimode and 4g devices, as well as establishing the selling prices for such devices. further, we depend on the timing of our customers' and licensees' deployments of new devices and services based on these technologies. increasingly, we also depend on operators of wireless networks, our customers and licensees and other third parties to incorporate these technologies into new device types and into industries beyond traditional cellular communications, such as automotive, the iot, including the connected home, smart cities and wearables, data center, networking, mobile computing, mobile health and 18 machine learning, including robotics, among others. we are also impacted by consumers' rates of replacement of smartphones and other computing devices. our revenues and/or growth in revenues could be negatively impacted, our business may be harmed and our substantial investments in these technologies may not provide us an adequate return, if: wireless operators and industries beyond traditional cellular communications deploy alternative technologies; wireless operators delay 3g and 3g/4g multimode network deployments, expansions or upgrades and/or delay moving 2g customers to 3g, 3g/4g multimode or 4g wireless devices; lte, an ofdma-based 4g wireless technology, is not more widely deployed or further commercial deployment is delayed; government regulators delay making sufficient spectrum available for 3g, 4g, new unlicensed technologies that we are developing in conjunction with 3g and 4g, as well as for 5g, thereby restricting the ability of wireless operators to deploy or expand the use of these technologies; wireless operators delay or do not drive improvements in 3g or 3g/4g multimode network performance and/or capacity; our customers' and licensees' revenues and sales of products, particularly premium-tier products, and services using these technologies do not grow or do not grow as quickly as anticipated due to, for example, the maturity of smartphone penetration in developed regions; our intellectual property and technical leadership included in the 5g standardization effort is different than in 3g and 4g standards; the standardization and/or deployment of 5g technology is delayed; and/or we are unable to drive the adoption of our products and services into networks and devices, including devices beyond traditional cellular applications, based on cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies. our industry is subject to competition in an environment of rapid technological change that could result in decreased demand and/or declining average selling prices for our products and/or those of our customers and/or licensees. our products, services and technologies face significant competition. we expect competition to increase as our current competitors expand their product offerings or reduce the prices of their products as part of a strategy to attract new business and/or customers, as new opportunities develop and as new competitors enter the industry. competition in wireless communications is affected by various factors that include, among others: device manufacturer concentrations; growth in demand, consumption and competition in emerging geographic regions; government intervention and/or support of national industries and/or competitors; evolving industry standards and business models; evolving methods of transmission of voice and data communications; increasing data traffic and densification of wireless networks; convergence and aggregation of connectivity technologies (including wi-fi and lte) in both devices and access points; consolidation of wireless technologies and infrastructure at the network edge; networking and connectivity trends (including cloud services); use of both licensed and unlicensed spectrum; the evolving nature of computing (including demand for always on, always connected capabilities); the speed of technological change (including the transition to smaller geometry process technologies); value-added features that drive selling prices as well as consumer demand for new 3g, 3g/4g multimode and 4g devices; turnkey, integrated products that incorporate hardware, software, user interface, applications and reference designs; scalability; and the ability of the system technology to meet customers' immediate and future network requirements. we anticipate that additional competitors will introduce products as a result of growth opportunities in wireless communications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in certain segments of the industry. additionally, the semiconductor industry has experienced and may continue to experience consolidation, which could result in significant changes to the competitive landscape. we expect that our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to: differentiate our integrated circuit products with innovative technologies across multiple products and features (e.g., modem, rffe, graphics and/or other processors, camera and connectivity) and with smaller geometry process technologies that drive performance; develop and offer integrated circuit products at competitive cost and price points to effectively cover both emerging and developed geographic regions and all device tiers; 19 continue to drive the adoption of our integrated circuit products into the most popular device models and across a broad spectrum of devices, such as smartphones, tablets, other computing devices, automobiles, wearable and other connected devices and infrastructure products; maintain and/or accelerate demand for our integrated circuit products at the premium device tier, while increasing the adoption of our products in mid- and low-tier devices, in part by strengthening our integrated circuit product roadmap for, and developing channel relationships in, emerging geographic regions, such as china and india, and by providing turnkey products, which incorporate our integrated circuits, for low- and mid-tier smartphones and tablets; continue to be a leader in 4g technology evolution, including expansion of our lte-based single mode licensing program in areas where single-mode products are commercialized, and continue to innovate and introduce 4g turnkey, integrated products and services that differentiate us from our competition; be a leader serving original equipment manufacturers, high level operating systems (hlos) providers, operators and other industry participants as competitors, new industry entrants and other factors continue to affect the industry landscape; be a preferred partner (and sustain preferred relationships) providing integrated circuit products that support multiple operating system and infrastructure platforms to industry participants that effectively commercialize new devices using these platforms; increase and/or accelerate demand for our semiconductor component products, including rffe, and our wired and wireless connectivity products, including networking products for consumers, carriers and enterprise equipment and connected devices; identify potential acquisition targets that will grow or sustain our business or address strategic needs, reach agreement on terms acceptable to us and effectively integrate these new businesses and/or technologies; create standalone value and/or contribute to the success of our existing businesses through acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions (and/or by developing customer, licensee and/or vendor relationships) in new industry segments and/or disruptive technologies, products and/or services (such as products for automotive, the iot, including the connected home, smart cities and wearables, data center, networking, mobile computing, mobile health and machine learning, including robotics, among others); become a leading supplier of radio frequency front-end products, which are designed to address cellular radio frequency band fragmentation while improving radio frequency performance and assist original equipment manufacturers in developing multiband, multimode mobile devices; be a leader in 5g technology development, standardization, intellectual property creation and licensing and develop and commercialize 5g integrated circuit products and services; and/or continue to develop brand recognition to effectively compete against better known companies in mobile computing and other consumer driven segments and to deepen our presence in significant emerging geographic regions. competition in any or all product tiers may result in the loss of certain business or customers, which would negatively impact our revenues and operating results. such competition may also reduce average selling prices for our chipset products and/or the products of our customers and licensees. certain of these dynamics are particularly pronounced in emerging geographic regions where competitors may have lower cost structures and/or may have a willingness and ability to accept lower prices and/or lower or negative margins on their products (particularly in china). reductions in the average selling prices of our chipset products, without a corresponding increase in volumes, would negatively impact our revenues, and without corresponding decreases in average unit costs, would negatively impact our margins. in addition, reductions in the average selling prices of our licensees' products, unless offset by an increase in volumes, would generally decrease total royalties payable to us, negatively impacting our licensing revenues. companies that promote standards that are neither cdma- nor ofdma-based (e.g., gsm) as well as companies that design integrated circuits based on cdma, ofdma, wi-fi or their derivatives are generally competitors or potential competitors. examples (some of which are strategic partners of ours in other areas) include broadcom limited, cirrus logic, ericsson, hisilicon technologies, intel, leadcore technology co., ltd., marvell technology, maxim integrated products, mediatek, microchip technology inc., nvidia, qorvo inc., realtek semiconductor, samsung electronics, skyworks solutions inc. and spreadtrum communications (which is controlled by tsinghua unigroup). some of these current and potential competitors may have advantages over us that include, among others: motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to utilize their own internally-developed integrated circuit products, to use our competitors' integrated circuit products, or to choose alternative technologies; lower cost structures and/or a willingness and ability to accept lower prices 20 and lower or negative margins for their products, particularly in china; foreign government support of other technologies or competitors; better known brand names; ownership and control of manufacturing facilities and greater expertise in manufacturing processes; more extensive relationships with local distribution companies and original equipment manufacturers in emerging geographic regions (such as china); and/or a more established presence in certain regions. we derive a significant portion of our consolidated revenues from a small number of customers and licensees. if revenues derived from these customers or licensees decrease or the timing of such revenues fluctuates, our operating results could be negatively affected. our qct segment derives a significant portion of its revenues from a small number of customers, and we expect this trend to continue in the foreseeable future. our industry is experiencing and may continue to experience concentration of device share among a few companies, particularly at the premium tier, contributing to this trend. in addition, certain of our largest integrated circuit customers develop their own integrated circuit products, which they have in the past chosen, and may in the future choose, to utilize in certain of their devices rather than our integrated circuit products (and/or sell their integrated circuit products to third parties in competition with us). also, one of our largest integrated circuit customers has begun to utilize products of one of our competitors in certain of their devices rather than our products. the loss of any one of our significant customers, a reduction in the purchases of our products by such customers or the cancelation of significant purchases from any of these customers, whether due to the use of their own integrated circuit products, our competitors' integrated circuit products or otherwise, would reduce our revenues and could harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected operating results, and a delay of significant purchases, even if only temporary, would reduce our revenues in the period of the delay. further, the concentration of device share among a few companies, and the corresponding purchasing power of these companies, may result in lower prices for our products which, if not accompanied by a sufficient increase in the volume of purchases of our products, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and margins. in addition, the timing and size of purchases by our significant customers may be impacted by the timing of such customers' new or next generation product introductions, over which we have no control, and the timing of such introductions may cause our operating results to fluctuate. accordingly, if current industry dynamics and concentrations continue, our qct segment's revenues will continue to depend largely upon, and be impacted by, future purchases, and the timing and size of any such future purchases, by these significant customers. one of our largest customers purchases our mobile data modem (mdm) products, which do not include our integrated application processor technology and which have lower revenue and margin contributions than our combined modem and application processor products. to the extent such customer takes device share from our other customers who purchase our integrated modem and application processor products, our revenues and margins may be negatively impacted. further, companies that develop hlos for devices, including leading technology companies, now sell their own devices. if we fail to effectively partner or continue partnering with these companies, or with their partners or customers, they may decide not to purchase (either directly or through their contract manufacturers), or to reduce or discontinue their purchases of, our integrated circuit products. in addition, there has been and continues to be litigation among certain of our customers and other industry participants, and the potential outcomes of such litigation, including but not limited to injunctions against devices that incorporate our products and/or intellectual property or rulings on certain patent law or patent licensing issues that create new legal precedent, could impact our business, particularly if such action impacts one of our larger customers. although we have more than 330 cdma-based licensees, our qtl segment derives a significant portion of licensing revenues from a limited number of licensees. in the event that one or more of our significant licensees fail to meet their reporting and/or payment requirements or we are unable to renew or modify one or more of such license agreements under similar terms, our revenues, operating results and cash flows would be adversely impacted. moreover, the future growth and success of our core licensing business will depend in part on the ability of our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver high-volume products that achieve and sustain customer acceptance. we have little or no control over the product development, sales efforts or pricing of products by our licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. reductions in the average selling prices of wireless devices sold by our major licensees, without a sufficient increase in the volumes of such devices sold, would generally have an adverse effect on our licensing revenues. we derive a significant portion of our consolidated revenues from the premium-tier device segment. if sales of premium-tier devices decrease, and/or sales of our premium-tier integrated circuit products decrease, our operating results could be negatively affected. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from the premium-tier device segment, and we expect this trend to continue in the foreseeable future. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, slowing growth in the 21 premium-tier device segment due to, among other factors, lengthening replacement cycles in developed regions, where premium-tier smartphones are common; increasing consumer demand in emerging regions, particularly china, where premium-tier smartphones are less common and replacement cycles are on average longer than in developed regions; and/or a maturing premium-tier smartphone industry in which demand is increasingly driven by new product launches and/or innovation cycles. in addition, as discussed in the prior risk factor, our industry is experiencing concentration of device share among a few companies at the premium tier, which gives them significant supply chain leverage. further, those companies may utilize their own internally-developed integrated circuit products, or our competitors' integrated circuit products, rather than our products in a portion of their devices. these dynamics may result in lower prices for and/or reduced sales of our premium-tier integrated circuit products. a reduction in sales of premium-tier devices, or a reduction in sales of our premium-tier integrated circuit products (which have a higher revenue and margin contribution than our lower-tier integrated circuit products), may reduce our revenues and margins and may harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected operating results. efforts by some communications equipment manufacturers or their customers to avoid paying fair and reasonable royalties for the use of our intellectual property may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources and may result in legal decisions and/or actions by governments, courts, regulators or agencies, standards development organizations (sdos) or other industry organizations that harm our business. from time to time, companies initiate various strategies to attempt to renegotiate, mitigate and/or eliminate their need to pay royalties to us for the use of our intellectual property. these strategies have included: (i) litigation, often alleging infringement of patents held by such companies, patent misuse, patent exhaustion, patent invalidity and/or unenforceability of our patents and/or licenses, or some form of unfair competition; (ii) taking positions contrary to our understanding of their contracts with us; (iii) appeals to governmental authorities; (iv) collective action, including working with wireless operators, standards bodies, other like-minded companies and other organizations, on both formal and informal bases, to adopt intellectual property policies and practices that could have the effect of limiting returns on intellectual property innovations; (v) lobbying governmental regulators and elected officials for the purpose of seeking the imposition of some form of compulsory licensing and/or to weaken a patent holder's ability to enforce its rights or obtain a fair return for such rights; and (vi) licensees using various strategies to attempt to shift their royalty obligation to their suppliers that results in lowering the wholesale (i.e., licensee's) selling price on which the royalty is calculated. in addition, certain licensees have disputed or underreported royalties owed to us under their license agreements with us or reported to us in a manner that is not in compliance with their contractual obligations, and certain companies have yet to enter into or delayed entering into license agreements with us for their use of our intellectual property, and licensees and/or companies may continue to do so in the future. further, to the extent such licensees and/or companies increase their device share, the negative impact of their underreporting and/or non-reporting on our business and operating results will be exacerbated. we are currently subject to various litigation and governmental investigations and/or proceedings, some of which may arise out of the strategies described above. certain legal matters are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. depending on the type of matter, various remedies that could result from an unfavorable resolution include, among others, injunctions, monetary damages or fines or other orders to pay money and the issuance of orders to cease certain conduct and/or modify our business practices. further, a governmental body in a particular country or region may assert, and may be successful in imposing, remedies with effects that extend beyond the borders of that country or region. in addition, in connection with our participation in sdos, we, like other patent owners, generally have made contractual commitments to such organizations to license those of our patents that would necessarily be infringed by standard-compliant products (standard-essential patents) on terms that are fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory (frand). some manufacturers and users of standard-compliant products advance interpretations of these frand commitments that are adverse to our licensing business, including interpretations that would limit the amount of royalties that we could collect on the licensing of our patent portfolio. further, some companies or entities have proposed significant changes to existing intellectual property policies for implementation by sdos and other industry organizations with the goal of significantly devaluing standard-essential patents. for example, some have put forth proposals which would require a maximum aggregate intellectual property royalty rate for the use of all standard-essential patents owned by all of the member companies to be applied to the selling price of any product implementing the relevant standard. they have further proposed that such maximum aggregate royalty rate be apportioned to each member company with standard-essential patents based upon the number of standard-essential patents 22 held by such company. others have proposed that injunctions not be an available remedy for infringement of standard-essential patents and/or have made proposals that could severely limit damage awards and other remedies by courts for patent infringement (e.g., by severely limiting the base upon which the royalty percentage may be applied). a number of these strategies are purportedly based on interpretations of the policies of certain sdos concerning the licensing of patents that are or may be essential to industry standards and on our (and/or other companies') alleged failure to abide by these policies. some sdos, courts and governmental agencies have adopted and may in the future adopt some or all of these interpretations or proposals in a manner adverse to our interests, including in litigation to which we may not be a party. we expect that such proposals, interpretations and strategies will continue in the future, and if successful, our business model would be harmed, either by limiting or eliminating our ability to collect royalties (or by reducing the royalties we can collect) on all or a portion of our patent portfolio, limiting our return on investment with respect to new technologies, limiting our ability to seek injunctions against infringers of our standard-essential patents, constraining our ability to make licensing commitments when submitting our technology for inclusion in future standards (which could make our technology less likely to be included in such standards) or forcing us to work outside of sdos or other industry groups to promote our new technologies, and our results of operations could be negatively impacted. in addition, the legal and other costs associated with asserting or defending our positions have been and continue to be significant. we assume that such challenges, regardless of their merits, will continue into the foreseeable future and may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources. we are subject to government regulations and policies. our business may suffer as a result of adverse rulings in government investigations or other proceedings, new or changed laws, regulations or policies and/or our failure or inability to comply with laws, regulations or policies. our business, products and services, and those of our customers and licensees, are subject to various laws and regulations globally, as well as government policies and the specifications of international, national and regional communications standards bodies. the adoption of new laws, regulations or policies, changes in the interpretation of existing laws, regulations or policies, changes in the regulation of our activities by a government or standards body and/or adverse rulings in court, regulatory, administrative or other proceedings relating to such laws, regulations or policies, including, among others, those affecting licensing practices, competitive business practices, the use of our technology or products, protection of intellectual property, trade, foreign investments or loans, spectrum availability and license issuance, adoption of standards, the provision of device subsidies by wireless operators to their customers, taxation, privacy and data protection, environmental protection or employment, could have an adverse effect on our business. we are currently subject to various governmental investigations and/or proceedings, and certain matters are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. depending on the type of matter, various remedies that could result from an unfavorable resolution include, among others, injunctions, monetary damages or fines or other orders to pay money, and the issuance of orders to cease certain conduct and/or modify our business practices. further, a governmental body in a particular country or region may assert, and may be successful in imposing, remedies with effects that extend beyond the borders of that country or region. delays in government approvals or other governmental activities that could result from, among others, a decrease in or a lack of funding for certain agencies or branches of the government and/or political changes, could result in our incurring higher costs, could negatively impact our ability to timely consummate strategic transactions and/or could have other negative impacts on our business and the businesses of our customers and licensees. national, state and local environmental laws and regulations affect our operations around the world. these laws may make it more expensive to manufacture, have manufactured and sell products, and our costs could increase if our vendors (e.g., third-party manufacturers or utility companies) pass on their costs to us. regulations in the united states require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the democratic republic of the congo (drc) or an adjoining country, or were from recycled or scrap sources. the verification and reporting requirements, in addition to customer demands for conflict free sourcing, impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products. further, if we are unable to determine that our products are drc conflict free, we may face challenges with our customers that place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed. laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, business conduct, public disclosure and health care are complex and changing and may create uncertainty regarding compliance. laws, regulations and standards are subject to 23 varying interpretations in many cases, and their application in practice may evolve over time. as a result, our efforts to comply may fail, particularly if there is ambiguity as to how they should be applied in practice. new laws, regulations and standards or evolving interpretations of legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and/or procedures and may divert management time and attention to compliance activities. the enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive, could fail to prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights, could result in the loss of our ability to enforce one or more patents, or could be adversely affected by changes in patent laws, by laws in certain foreign jurisdictions that may not effectively protect our intellectual property rights or by ineffective enforcement of laws in such jurisdictions. we rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, international treaties and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes, including our patent portfolio. policing unauthorized use of our products, technologies and proprietary information is difficult and time consuming. the steps we have taken have not always prevented, and we cannot be certain the steps we will take in the future will prevent, the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary intellectual property rights as fully or as readily as united states laws or where the enforcement of such laws may be lacking or ineffective. some industry participants who have a vested interest in devaluing patents in general, or standard-essential patents in particular, have mounted attacks on certain patent systems, increasing the likelihood of changes to established patent laws. in the united states, there is continued discussion regarding potential patent law changes and current and potential future litigation regarding patents, the outcomes of which could be detrimental to our licensing business. the laws in certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including certain countries in asia, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws in the united states. we expect that the european union will adopt a unitary patent system in the next few years that may broadly impact that region's patent regime. we cannot predict with certainty the long-term effects of any potential changes. in addition, we cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country or the practices of any standards bodies, foreign or domestic, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing or the adoption of standards, will not be changed in the future in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technology. we have had and may in the future have difficulty in certain circumstances in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights and/or contracts, including collecting royalties for use of our patent portfolio in particular foreign jurisdictions due to, among others: policies of foreign governments; challenges to our licensing practices under such jurisdictions' competition laws; adoption of mandatory licensing provisions by foreign jurisdictions (either with controlled/regulated royalties or royalty free); failure of foreign courts to recognize and enforce judgments of contract breach and damages issued by courts in the united states; and/or challenges pending before foreign competition agencies to the pricing and integration of additional features and functionality into our chipset products. certain licensees have disputed or underreported royalties owed to us under their license agreements with us or reported to us in a manner that is not in compliance with their contractual obligations, and certain companies have yet to enter into or delayed entering into license agreements for their use of our intellectual property, and such licensees and/or companies may continue to do so in the future. additionally, although our license agreements provide us with the right to audit the books and records of licensees, audits can be expensive, time consuming, incomplete and subject to dispute. further, certain licensees may not comply with the obligation to provide full access to their books and records. to the extent we do not aggressively enforce our rights under our license agreements, licensees may not comply with their existing license agreements, and to the extent we do not aggressively pursue unlicensed companies to enter into license agreements with us for their use of our intellectual property, other unlicensed companies may not enter into license agreements. we have entered into litigation in the past and may need to further litigate in the future to enforce our contract and/or intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. as a result of any such litigation, we could lose our ability to enforce one or more patents, portions of our license agreements could be determined to be invalid or unenforceable (which may in turn result in other licensees either not complying with their existing license agreements and/or initiating litigation) and/or we could incur substantial unexpected operating costs. any action we take to enforce our contract or intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our operating results. further, even a positive resolution to our enforcement efforts may take time to conclude, which may reduce our revenues in the period prior to conclusion. our growth increasingly depends on our ability to extend our products and services into new and expanded product areas, such as rffe, and adjacent industry segments outside of traditional cellular industries, such as the iot, automotive and computing, among others. our research, development and other investments in these new and expanded product areas and industry segments, and related technologies, products and services, as well as in our existing technologies, products 24 and services and new technologies, such as 5g, may not generate operating income or contribute to future operating results that meet our expectations. our industry is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions, and we must make substantial research, development and other investments, such as acquisitions, in new products, services and technologies to compete successfully. technological innovations generally require significant research and development efforts before they are commercially viable. while we continue to invest significant resources toward advancements primarily in support of 4g ofdma- and 5g-based technologies, we also innovate across a broad spectrum of opportunities to deploy new and expanded products and enter into adjacent industry segments by leveraging our existing technical and business expertise and/or through acquisitions. in particular, our future growth significantly depends on new and expanded product areas, such as rffe, and adjacent industry segments, such as automotive, iot, including the connected home, smart cities and wearables, data center, networking, mobile computing, mobile health and machine learning, including robotics, among others; our ability to develop leading and cost-effective technologies, products and services for new and expanded product areas and adjacent industry segments; and third parties incorporating our technology, products and services into device types used in these product areas and industry segments. accordingly, we intend to continue to make substantial investments in these new and expanded product areas and adjacent industry segments, and in developing new products, services and technologies for these product areas and industry segments. however, our research, development and other investments in these new and expanded product areas and adjacent industry segments, and corresponding technologies, products and services, as well as in our existing, technologies, products and services and new technologies, such as use of both licensed and unlicensed spectrum, convergence of cellular and wi-fi and 5g, may not succeed due to, among others: new industry segments and/or consumer demand may not grow as anticipated; our strategies and/or the strategies of our customers, licensees or partners may not be successful; improvements in alternate technologies in ways that reduce the advantages we anticipate from our investments; competitors' products or services being more cost effective, having more capabilities or fewer limitations or being brought to market faster than our new products and services; and competitors having longer operating histories in industry segments that are new to us. we may also underestimate the costs of or overestimate the future operating income and/or margins that could result from these investments, and these investments may not, or may take many years to, generate material returns. if our new technologies, products and/or services are not successful, or are not successful in the time frame we anticipate, we may incur significant costs and/or asset impairments, our business may not grow as anticipated, our revenues and/or margins may be negatively impacted and/or our reputation may be harmed. the continued and future success of our licensing programs can be impacted by the deployment of other technologies in place of technologies based on cdma, ofdma and their derivatives; the success of our licensing programs for 4g single mode products and emerging industry segments; and the need to extend license agreements that are expiring and/or to cover additional future patents. although we own a very strong portfolio of issued and pending patents related to gsm, gprs, edge, ofdm, ofdma, wlan and other technologies, our patent portfolio licensing program in these areas is less established and might not be as successful in generating licensing revenues as our cdma licensing program has been. many wireless operators are investigating, have selected or have deployed ofdma-based lte as their next-generation 4g technology in existing (or future if not yet deployed) wireless spectrum bands as complementary to their existing cdma-based networks. while 3g/4g multimode products are generally covered by our existing 3g licensing agreements, products that implement 4g but do not also implement 3g are generally not covered by these agreements. although we believe that our patented technology is essential and useful to implementation of the lte industry standards and have granted royalty-bearing licenses to more than 210 companies (including huawei, lenovo, lg, microsoft, oppo, samsung, sony mobile, vivo, xiaomi and zte) that have realized that they need a license to our patents to make and sell products implementing 4g standards but not implementing 3g standards, it may be difficult to agree on material terms and/or conditions of new license agreements that are acceptable to us with companies that are currently unlicensed. further, the royalty rates for single mode 4g products are lower than our royalty rates for 3g and 3g/4g multimode products, so, without a corresponding increase in volumes and/or device asp, we will not achieve the same licensing revenues on such lte products as on 3g and 3g/4g multimode products. in addition, new connectivity and other services are emerging that rely on devices that may or may not be used on traditional cellular networks, such as devices used in the connected home or the iot. we also seek to diversify and broaden our technology licensing programs to new industry segments in which we can utilize our technology leadership, such as wireless charging and other technologies. standards, even de facto standards, that develop as these technologies mature, in particular those that do not include a base level of interoperability, may impact our ability to obtain royalties that are equivalent to those that we receive for 3g and 3g/4g multimode products used in cellular communications. although we believe that our patented 25 technology is essential and useful to the commercialization of such services, the royalties we receive may be lower than those we receive from our current licensing program. over the long-term, we need to continue to evolve our patent portfolio. if we do not maintain a strong portfolio that is applicable to current and/or future standards (such as 5g), products and/or services, our future licensing revenues could be negatively impacted. the licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date and, in a small number of agreements, royalties are payable on those patents for a specified time period. as a result, there are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us and/or royalties are not owed to us under such license agreements after the specified time period. additionally, certain of our license agreements (including essentially all of our recent agreements in china) are effective for a specified term. in order to license or to obtain a license to such later patents or after the expiration of a specified term, or to receive royalties after the specified time period, we will need to extend or modify such license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees. accordingly, to the extent not renewed on their terms or by election for an additional (generally multi-year) period, if applicable, we will need to extend or modify such license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees more frequently than we have done historically. we might not be able to renew those license agreements, or enter into new license agreements, in the future without affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees, and such modifications or new agreements may negatively impact our revenues. if there is a delay in renewing a license agreement prior to its expiration, there would be a delay in our ability to recognize revenues related to that licensee's product sales. further, if we are unable to reach agreement on such modifications or new agreements, it could result in patent infringement litigation with such companies. we depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for the procurement, manufacture and testing of our products. if we fail to execute supply strategies that provide technology leadership, supply assurance and low cost, our operating results and our business may be harmed. we are also subject to order and shipment uncertainties that could negatively impact our operating results. our qct segment currently utilizes a fabless production model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. we employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing models to purchase our integrated circuits. under the turnkey model, our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. under the two-stage manufacturing model, we purchase die in singular or wafer form from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-party suppliers for manufacturing services such as wafer bump, probe, assembly and final test. the semiconductor manufacturing foundries that supply products to our qct segment are primarily located in asia, as are our primary warehouses where we store finished goods for fulfillment of customer orders. the following could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands and/or negatively impact our revenues, business operations, profitability and/or cash flows: a reduction, interruption, delay or limitation in our product supply sources; a failure by our suppliers to procure raw materials or to provide or allocate adequate manufacturing or test capacity for our products; our suppliers' inability to react to shifts in product demand or an increase in raw material or component prices; our suppliers' delay in developing leading process technologies, or inability to develop or maintain leading process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies; the loss of a supplier or the inability of a supplier to meet performance, quality or yield specifications or delivery schedules; and/or additional expense and/or production delays as a result of qualifying a new supplier and commencing volume production or testing in the event of a loss of or a decision to add or change a supplier. while we have established alternate suppliers for certain technologies, we rely on sole- or limited-source suppliers for certain products, subjecting us to significant risks, including: possible shortages of raw materials or manufacturing capacity; poor product performance; and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability and yields, quality assurance, quantity and costs. to the extent we have established alternate suppliers, these suppliers may require significant levels of support to bring complex technologies to production. as a result, we may invest a significant amount of effort and resources and incur higher costs to support and maintain such alternate suppliers. further, any future consolidation of foundry suppliers could increase our vulnerability to sole- or limited-source arrangements and reduce our suppliers' willingness to negotiate pricing, which could negatively impact our ability to achieve cost reductions and/or increase our manufacturing 26 costs. our arrangements with our suppliers may obligate us to incur costs to manufacture and test our products that do not decrease at the same rate as decreases in pricing to our customers. our ability, and that of our suppliers, to develop or maintain leading process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies, and to effectively compete with the manufacturing processes and performance of our competitors, could impact our ability to introduce new products and meet customer demand, could increase our costs (possibly decreasing our margins) and could subject us to the risk of excess inventories. our inability to meet customer demand due to sole- or limited-sourcing and/or the additional costs that we incur because of these or other supply constraints or because of the need to support alternate suppliers could negatively impact our business and our results of operations. although we have long-term contracts with our suppliers, many of these contracts do not provide for long-term capacity commitments. to the extent we do not have firm commitments from our suppliers over a specific time period or for any specific quantity, our suppliers may allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production and testing of products for their other customers while reducing or limiting capacity to manufacture or test our products. accordingly, capacity for our products may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. to the extent we do obtain long-term capacity commitments, we may incur additional costs related to those commitments and/or make non-refundable payments for capacity commitments that are not used. one or more of our suppliers or potential alternate suppliers may manufacture cdma- or ofdma-based integrated circuits that compete with our products. in this event, the supplier could elect to allocate raw materials and manufacturing capacity to their own products and reduce or limit deliveries to us to our detriment. in addition, we may not receive reasonable pricing, manufacturing or delivery terms. we cannot guarantee that the actions of our suppliers will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost of sales. additionally, we place orders with our suppliers using our forecasts of customer demand, which are based on a number of assumptions and estimates, and are generally only partially covered by commitments from our customers. if we overestimate customer demand, we may experience increased excess and/or obsolete inventory, which would negatively impact our operating results. claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property could adversely affect our business. from time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights against our products or products using our technologies or other technologies used in our industry. these claims have resulted and may again result in our involvement in litigation. we may not prevail in such litigation given, among other factors, the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if any of our products or services were found to infringe another company's intellectual property rights, we could be subject to an injunction or be required to redesign our products or services, which could be costly, or to license such rights and/or pay damages or other compensation to such other company. if we are unable to redesign our products or services, license such intellectual property rights used in our products or services or otherwise distribute our products (e.g., through a licensed supplier), we could be prohibited from making and selling such products or providing such services. in any potential dispute involving other companies' patents or other intellectual property, our chipset foundries, semiconductor assembly and test providers and customers could also become the targets of litigation. we are contingently liable under certain product sales, services, license and other agreements to indemnify certain customers against certain types of liability and/or damages arising from qualifying claims of patent infringement by products or services sold or provided by us. reimbursements under indemnification arrangements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. furthermore, any such litigation could severely disrupt the supply of our products and the businesses of our chipset customers and their customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our chipset sales and/or reductions in our licensees' sales, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. any claims, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming to address, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. we expect that we may continue to be involved in litigation and may have to appear in front of administrative bodies (such as the united states international trade commission) to defend against patent assertions against our products by companies, some of whom are attempting to gain competitive advantage or leverage in licensing negotiations. we may not be successful in such proceedings, and if we are not, the range of possible outcomes is very broad and may include, for example, monetary damages or fines or other orders to pay money, royalty payments, injunctions on the sale of certain of our integrated circuit products (and/or on the sale of our customers' devices using such products) and/or the issuance of orders to cease certain conduct and/or modify our business practices. further, a governmental body in a particular country or region may assert, and may be successful in imposing, remedies with effects that extend beyond the borders of that country or region. in addition, a negative outcome in any such proceeding could severely disrupt the business of our chipset customers 27 and their wireless operator customers, which in turn could harm our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our worldwide chipset sales and/or a reduction in our licensees' sales to wireless operators, causing corresponding declines in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. certain legal matters, including certain claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property, are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. we may engage in strategic acquisitions, transactions or make investments that could adversely affect our financial results or fail to enhance stockholder value. we engage in strategic acquisitions and other transactions, including joint ventures, and make investments, which we believe are important to the future of our business, with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. we acquire businesses and other assets, including patents, technology, wireless spectrum and other intangible assets, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase minority equity interests in or make loans to companies that may be private and early-stage. our strategic activities are generally focused on opening new or expanding opportunities for our technologies and supporting the design and introduction of new products and services (or enhancing existing products or services) for voice and data communications and new industry segments. recent material transactions include our acquisition of csr plc, our pending joint venture with tdk corporation and our proposed acquisition of nxp. many of our strategic activities entail a high degree of risk and require the use of domestic and/or foreign capital, and investments may not become liquid for several years after the date of the investment, if at all. our strategic activities may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies, products or services. in some cases, we may be required to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of companies in which we have acquired ownership interests. in addition, we may record impairment charges related to our strategic activities. any losses or impairment charges that we incur related to strategic activities will have a negative impact on our financial results, and we may continue to incur new or additional losses related to strategic assets or investments that we have not fully impaired or exited. we may underestimate the costs and/or overestimate the benefits, including product and other synergies and growth opportunities that we expect to realize, and we may not achieve them. if we do not achieve the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions or other strategic activities, our results of operations may be adversely affected, and we may not enhance stockholder value by engaging in these transactions. achieving the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions, including joint ventures and other strategic investments in which we have management and operational control, depends in part upon our ability to integrate the businesses in an efficient and effective manner and achieve anticipated synergies. such integration is complex and time consuming and involves significant challenges, including, among others: retaining key employees; successfully integrating new employees, technology, products, processes, operations (including manufacturing operations), sales and distribution channels, business models and business systems; retaining customers and suppliers of the businesses; consolidating research and development and/or supply operations; minimizing the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business matters; and consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; and managing the increased scale, complexity and globalization of our business, operations and employee base. we may not derive any commercial value from associated technologies or products or from future technologies or products based on these technologies, and we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by indemnification protection that we may obtain, or we may become subject to litigation. additionally, we may not be successful in entering or expanding into new sales or distribution channels, business or operational models (including manufacturing), geographic regions, industry segments and/or categories of products served by or adjacent to the associated businesses or in addressing potential new opportunities that may arise out of the combination. our use of open source software may harm our business. certain of our software and our suppliers' software may contain or may be derived from open source software, and we have seen, and believe we will continue to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including software associated with our integrated circuit products, that incorporate open source software elements and operate in an open source environment, which, under certain open source licenses, may offer accessibility to a portion of a product's source code and may expose related intellectual property to adverse licensing conditions. licensing of such software may impose certain obligations on us if we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. for example, these obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to our customers in a manner that allows them to make such source code available to their customers or license such derivative works under a particular type of license that is different than what we customarily use to license our software. developing open source products, while adequately protecting the intellectual property rights upon which our licensing business depends, may prove burdensome and time-consuming under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage. also, our use and our customers' use of open source software may subject our products and our customers' products to governmental scrutiny and delays in product certification, which could cause customers to view our products as less desirable than our competitors' products. 28 while we believe we have taken appropriate steps and employ adequate controls to protect our intellectual property rights, our use of open source software presents risks that could have an adverse effect on these rights and on our business. our stock price, earnings and the fair value of our investments are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market downturns. our stock price and earnings have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock and/or earnings include those identified throughout this risk factors section, volatility of the stock market in general and technology-based companies in particular, announcements concerning us, our suppliers, our competitors or our customers or licensees and variations between our actual results or guidance and expectations of securities analysts, among others. further, increased volatility in the financial markets and/or overall economic conditions may reduce the amounts that we realize in the future on our cash equivalents and/or marketable securities and may reduce our earnings as a result of any impairment charges that we record to reduce recorded values of marketable securities to their fair values. in the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. due to changes in our stock price, we are and may in the future be the target of securities litigation. securities litigation could result in substantial uninsured costs and divert management's attention and our resources. certain legal matters, including certain securities litigation brought against us, are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. we maintain an extensive investment portfolio of varied holdings, which are generally classified as available-for-sale and are therefore recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at fair value, with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. the fair value of our investments are subject to fluctuation based primarily on market price volatility, as well as the underlying operations of the associated investment, among other things. if the fair value of such investments decreases below their cost basis, as some of our previous investments have, we may be required in certain circumstances to recognize a loss in our results of operations. the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of our investment portfolio are described more fully in this annual report in part ii, item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. there are risks associated with our indebtedness. our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur, including in connection with our proposed acquisition of nxp, may have negative consequences on our business, including, among others: requiring us to use cash to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends or other general corporate and other purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and/or increasing our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations to the extent a portion of our debt has variable interest rates. our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which is subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to, among other things: repatriate funds to the united states at substantial tax cost; refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures; or sell selected assets. such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. in addition, any such refinancing, restructuring or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all, and if prevailing interest rates at the time of any such refinancing and/or restructuring are higher than our current rates, interest expense related to such refinancing and/or restructuring would increase. if there are adverse changes in the ratings assigned to our debt securities by credit rating agencies, our borrowing costs, our ability to access debt in the future and/or the terms of such debt could be adversely affected. global, regional or local economic conditions that impact the mobile communications industry or the other industries in which we operate could negatively affect the demand for our products and services and our customers' or licensees' products and services, which may negatively affect our revenues. a decline in global, regional or local economic conditions or a slow-down in economic growth, particularly in geographic regions with high concentrations of wireless voice and data users or high concentrations of our customers or 29 licensees, could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products and services of our customers or licensees, particularly equipment manufacturers or others in the wireless communications industry who buy their products, such as wireless operators. any prolonged economic downturn may result in a decrease in demand for our products or technologies; the insolvency of key suppliers, customers or licensees; delays in reporting and/or payments from our licensees and/or customers; failures by counterparties; and negative effects on wireless device inventories. in addition, our customers' ability to purchase or pay for our products and services and network operators' ability to upgrade their wireless networks could be adversely affected by economic conditions, leading to a reduction, cancelation or delay of orders for our products or services. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel, and on our ability to continue to identify, attract, retain and motivate them, particularly in an environment of cost reductions. implementing our business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, as our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. the market for employees in our industry is extremely competitive. further, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the united states, making the pool of available talent even smaller. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our business may be harmed. currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues, harm our ability to collect receivables or increase the u.s. dollar cost of our products. our customers sell their products throughout the world in various currencies. our consolidated revenues from international customers as a percentage of our total revenues were greater than 90% during each of the last three fiscal years. adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business and our operating results due to a number of factors, including, among others: our products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold outside the united states may become less price-competitive, which may result in reduced demand for those products and/or downward pressure on average selling prices; certain of our revenues, such as royalties, that are derived from licensee or customer sales denominated in foreign currencies could decrease; our foreign suppliers may raise their prices if they are impacted by currency fluctuations, resulting in higher than expected costs and lower margins; and/or foreign exchange hedging transactions that we engage in to reduce the impact of currency fluctuations may require the payment of structuring fees, limit the u.s. dollar value of royalties from licensees' sales that are denominated in foreign currencies, cause earnings volatility if the hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting and expose us to counterparty risk if the counterparty fails to perform. failures in our products or services or in the products or services of our customers or licensees, including those resulting from security vulnerabilities, defects or errors, could harm our business. the use of devices containing our products to access untrusted content creates a risk of exposing the system software in those devices to viral or malicious attacks. while we continue to focus on this issue and are taking measures to safeguard our products from cybersecurity threats, device capabilities continue to evolve, enabling more data and processes, such as mobile computing, and increasing the risk of security failures. further, our products are inherently complex and may contain defects or errors that are detected only when the products are in use. the design process interface in new domains of technology and the migration to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes are complex and add risk to manufacturing yields and reliability. further, manufacturing, testing, marketing and use of our products and those of our customers and licensees entail the risk of product liability. because our products and services are responsible for critical functions in our customers' products and/or networks, security failures, defects or errors in our products or services could have an adverse impact on us, on our customers and/or on the end users of our customers' products. such adverse impact could include product liability claims or recalls, write-offs of our inventories and/or intangible assets; unfavorable purchase commitments; a shift of business to our competitors; a decrease in demand for connected devices and wireless services; damage to our reputation and to our customer relationships; and other financial liability or harm to our business. further, security failures, defects or errors in the products of our customers or licensees, such as the recent issues with the galaxy note 7 that caused samsung to discontinue that product, could have an adverse impact on our operating results due to a delay or decrease in demand for our products or services generally, and our premium-tier products in particular, among other factors. 30 our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches. attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are increasingly more sophisticated. these attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. we seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. while we have identified several incidents of unauthorized access, to date none have caused material damage to our business. the theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives and/or otherwise adversely affect our business. to the extent any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers' or licensees' confidential information, we may incur liability. we expect to continue to devote resources to the security of our information technology systems. potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including singapore where our qct segment's non-united states headquarters is located. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related legal proceedings could materially differ from amounts reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. in such case, our income tax provision and results of operations in the period or periods in which that determination is made could be negatively affected. we have tax incentives in singapore provided that we meet specified employment and other criteria, and as a result of the expiration of these incentives, our singapore tax rate is expected to increase in fiscal 2017 and again in fiscal 2027. if we do not meet the criteria required to retain such incentives, our singapore tax rate could increase prior to fiscal 2027, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. tax rules may change in a manner that adversely affects our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. for example, we consider the operating earnings of certain non-united states subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside the united states based on our current needs for those earnings to be reinvested offshore as well as estimates that future domestic cash generated from operations and/or borrowings will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs for the foreseeable future. no provision has been made for united states federal, state or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries. our future financial results and liquidity may be adversely affected if tax rules regarding unrepatriated earnings change, if domestic cash needs require us to repatriate foreign earnings, if the shares of these foreign subsidiaries were sold or otherwise transferred or if the united states international tax rules change as part of comprehensive tax reform or other tax legislation. further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting (beps) project that was undertaken by the organization for economic co-operation and development (oecd). the oecd, which represents a coalition of member countries, recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles related to transfer pricing. these changes, if adopted by countries, could increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. we have not yet determined what changes, if any, may be needed to our operations or structure to address beps. if our effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the united states or singapore, our operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. there are risks associated with our indebtedness. our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur, including in connection with our proposed acquisition of nxp, may have negative consequences on our business, including, among others: requiring us to use cash to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends or other general corporate and other purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and/or increasing our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations to the extent a portion of our debt has variable interest rates. our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which is subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to, among other things: repatriate funds to the united states at substantial tax cost; refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures; or sell selected assets. such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. in addition, any such refinancing, restructuring or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all, and if prevailing interest rates at the time of any such refinancing and/or restructuring are higher than our current rates, interest expense related to such refinancing and/or restructuring would increase. if there are adverse changes in the ratings assigned to our debt securities by credit rating agencies, our borrowing costs, our ability to access debt in the future and/or the terms of such debt could be adversely affected. global, regional or local economic conditions that impact the mobile communications industry or the other industries in which we operate could negatively affect the demand for our products and services and our customers' or licensees' products and services, which may negatively affect our revenues. a decline in global, regional or local economic conditions or a slow-down in economic growth, particularly in geographic regions with high concentrations of wireless voice and data users or high concentrations of our customers or 29 licensees, could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products and services of our customers or licensees, particularly equipment manufacturers or others in the wireless communications industry who buy their products, such as wireless operators. any prolonged economic downturn may result in a decrease in demand for our products or technologies; the insolvency of key suppliers, customers or licensees; delays in reporting and/or payments from our licensees and/or customers; failures by counterparties; and negative effects on wireless device inventories. in addition, our customers' ability to purchase or pay for our products and services and network operators' ability to upgrade their wireless networks could be adversely affected by economic conditions, leading to a reduction, cancelation or delay of orders for our products or services. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel, and on our ability to continue to identify, attract, retain and motivate them, particularly in an environment of cost reductions. implementing our business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, as our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. the market for employees in our industry is extremely competitive. further, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the united states, making the pool of available talent even smaller. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our business may be harmed. currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues, harm our ability to collect receivables or increase the u.s. dollar cost of our products. our customers sell their products throughout the world in various currencies. our consolidated revenues from international customers as a percentage of our total revenues were greater than 90% during each of the last three fiscal years. adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business and our operating results due to a number of factors, including, among others: our products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold outside the united states may become less price-competitive, which may result in reduced demand for those products and/or downward pressure on average selling prices; certain of our revenues, such as royalties, that are derived from licensee or customer sales denominated in foreign currencies could decrease; our foreign suppliers may raise their prices if they are impacted by currency fluctuations, resulting in higher than expected costs and lower margins; and/or foreign exchange hedging transactions that we engage in to reduce the impact of currency fluctuations may require the payment of structuring fees, limit the u.s. dollar value of royalties from licensees' sales that are denominated in foreign currencies, cause earnings volatility if the hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting and expose us to counterparty risk if the counterparty fails to perform. failures in our products or services or in the products or services of our customers or licensees, including those resulting from security vulnerabilities, defects or errors, could harm our business. the use of devices containing our products to access untrusted content creates a risk of exposing the system software in those devices to viral or malicious attacks. while we continue to focus on this issue and are taking measures to safeguard our products from cybersecurity threats, device capabilities continue to evolve, enabling more data and processes, such as mobile computing, and increasing the risk of security failures. further, our products are inherently complex and may contain defects or errors that are detected only when the products are in use. the design process interface in new domains of technology and the migration to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes are complex and add risk to manufacturing yields and reliability. further, manufacturing, testing, marketing and use of our products and those of our customers and licensees entail the risk of product liability. because our products and services are responsible for critical functions in our customers' products and/or networks, security failures, defects or errors in our products or services could have an adverse impact on us, on our customers and/or on the end users of our customers' products. such adverse impact could include product liability claims or recalls, write-offs of our inventories and/or intangible assets; unfavorable purchase commitments; a shift of business to our competitors; a decrease in demand for connected devices and wireless services; damage to our reputation and to our customer relationships; and other financial liability or harm to our business. further, security failures, defects or errors in the products of our customers or licensees, such as the recent issues with the galaxy note 7 that caused samsung to discontinue that product, could have an adverse impact on our operating results due to a delay or decrease in demand for our products or services generally, and our premium-tier products in particular, among other factors. 30 our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches. attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are increasingly more sophisticated. these attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. we seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. while we have identified several incidents of unauthorized access, to date none have caused material damage to our business. the theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives and/or otherwise adversely affect our business. to the extent any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers' or licensees' confidential information, we may incur liability. we expect to continue to devote resources to the security of our information technology systems. potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including singapore where our qct segment's non-united states headquarters is located. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related legal proceedings could materially differ from amounts reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. in such case, our income tax provision and results of operations in the period or periods in which that determination is made could be negatively affected. we have tax incentives in singapore provided that we meet specified employment and other criteria, and as a result of the expiration of these incentives, our singapore tax rate is expected to increase in fiscal 2017 and again in fiscal 2027. if we do not meet the criteria required to retain such incentives, our singapore tax rate could increase prior to fiscal 2027, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. tax rules may change in a manner that adversely affects our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. for example, we consider the operating earnings of certain non-united states subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside the united states based on our current needs for those earnings to be reinvested offshore as well as estimates that future domestic cash generated from operations and/or borrowings will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs for the foreseeable future. no provision has been made for united states federal, state or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries. our future financial results and liquidity may be adversely affected if tax rules regarding unrepatriated earnings change, if domestic cash needs require us to repatriate foreign earnings, if the shares of these foreign subsidiaries were sold or otherwise transferred or if the united states international tax rules change as part of comprehensive tax reform or other tax legislation. further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting (beps) project that was undertaken by the organization for economic co-operation and development (oecd). the oecd, which represents a coalition of member countries, recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles related to transfer pricing. these changes, if adopted by countries, could increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. we have not yet determined what changes, if any, may be needed to our operations or structure to address beps. if our effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the united states or singapore, our operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition could be adversely affected. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties at september 25, 2016 , we occupied the following facilities (square footage in millions): united states other countries total owned facilities 4.6 0.1 4.7 leased facilities 1.6 3.3 4.9 total 6.2 3.4 9.6 31 our headquarters as well as certain research and development, manufacturing and network management hub operations are located in san diego, california. additionally, our qct segment's non-united states headquarters is located in singapore. we also own and lease properties around the world for use as sales and administrative offices and research and development centers, primarily in the united states, india, china and the united kingdom. our facility leases expire at varying dates through 2025, not including renewals that would be at our option. several other owned and leased facilities are under construction totaling approximately 493,000 additional square feet. we believe that our facilities are suitable and adequate for our present purposes and that the productive capacity in facilities that are not under construction is substantially utilized. we do not identify or allocate facilities by operating segment. additional information on net property, plant and equipment by geography is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 8. segment information. in the future, we may need to purchase, build or lease additional facilities to meet the requirements projected in our long-term business plan. item 3. legal proceedings information regarding legal proceedings is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. we are also engaged in numerous other legal actions arising in the ordinary course of our business and, while there can be no assurance, we believe that the ultimate outcome of these other legal actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. 32 part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities market information and dividends our common stock is traded on the nasdaq global select market under the symbol qcom. the following table sets forth the range of high and low sales prices of our common stock, as reported by nasdaq, and cash dividends announced per share of common stock for the fiscal periods presented. quotations of our stock price represent inter-dealer prices without retail markup, markdown or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. high ($) low ($) dividends ($) 2016 first quarter 61.19 45.93 0.48 second quarter 53.52 42.24 0.48 third quarter 56.27 49.67 0.53 fourth quarter 64.00 50.84 0.53 2015 first quarter 78.53 67.67 0.42 second quarter 75.60 62.26 0.42 third quarter 71.90 64.60 0.48 fourth quarter 66.05 52.39 0.48 at october 31, 2016 , there were 7,484 holders of record of our common stock. on october 31, 2016 , the last sale price reported on the nasdaq global select market for our common stock was $68.72 per share. on october 6, 2016 , we announced a cash dividend of $0.53 per share on our common stock, payable on december 16, 2016 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on november 30, 2016 . we intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends, subject to capital availability and our view that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders. future dividends may be affected by, among other items, our views on potential future capital requirements, including those relating to research and development, creation and expansion of sales distribution channels, investments and acquisitions, legal risks, stock repurchase programs, debt issuance, changes in federal and state income tax law and changes to our business model. share-based compensation we primarily issue restricted stock units under our equity compensation plans, which are part of a broad-based, long-term retention program that is intended to attract and retain talented employees and directors and align stockholder and employee interests. our 2016 long-term incentive plan (2016 plan) provides for the grant of both incentive and nonstatutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, unrestricted stock, restricted stock units, performance units, performance shares, deferred compensation awards and other stock-based awards. restricted stock units generally vest over periods of three years from the date of grant. stock options vest over periods not exceeding five years and are exercisable for up to ten years from the grant date. the board of directors may amend or terminate the 2016 plan at any time. additional information regarding our share-based compensation plans and plan activity for fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014 is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 5. employee benefit plans and additional information regarding our share-based compensation plans for fiscal 2016 is provided in our 2017 proxy statement under the heading equity compensation plan information. issuer purchases of equity securities issuer purchases of equity securities during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 were: 33 total number of shares purchased average price paid per share (1) total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs (2) (in thousands) (in thousands) (in millions) june 27, 2016 to july 24, 2016 $ $ 3,211 july 25, 2016 to august 21, 2016 2,414 62.14 2,414 3,061 august 22, 2016 to september 25, 2016 1,201 62.43 1,201 2,986 total 3,615 3,615 (1) average price paid per share excludes cash paid for commissions. (2) on march 9, 2015 , we announced a repurchase program authorizing us to repurchase up to $15 billion of our common stock. at september 25, 2016 , $3.0 billion remained authorized for repurchase. the stock repurchase program has no expiration date. since september 25, 2016 , we repurchased and retired 1,865,000 shares of common stock for $124 million . 34 item 6. selected financial data the following data should be read in conjunction with the annual consolidated financial statements, related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere herein. years ended (1) september 25, 2016 september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014 september 29, 2013 september 30, 2012 (in millions, except per share data) statement of operations data: revenues $ 23,554 $ 25,281 $ 26,487 $ 24,866 $ 19,121 operating income 6,495 5,776 7,550 7,230 5,682 income from continuing operations 5,702 5,268 7,534 6,845 5,283 discontinued operations, net of income taxes 430 776 net income attributable to qualcomm 5,705 5,271 7,967 6,853 6,109 per share data: basic earnings per share attributable to qualcomm: continuing operations $ 3.84 $ 3.26 $ 4.48 $ 3.99 $ 3.14 discontinued operations 0.25 0.45 net income 3.84 3.26 4.73 3.99 3.59 diluted earnings per share attributable to qualcomm: continuing operations 3.81 3.22 4.40 3.91 3.06 discontinued operations 0.25 0.45 net income 3.81 3.22 4.65 3.91 3.51 dividends per share announced 2.02 1.80 1.54 1.20 0.93 balance sheet data: cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 32,350 $ 30,947 $ 32,022 $ 29,406 $ 26,837 total assets 52,359 50,796 48,574 45,516 43,012 loans and debentures (2) 1,064 short-term debt (3) 1,749 1,000 long-term debt (4) 10,008 9,969 other long-term liabilities (5) 895 817 428 550 426 total stockholders' equity 31,768 31,414 39,166 36,087 33,545 (1) our fiscal year ends on the last sunday in september. the fiscal years ended september 25, 2016 , september 27, 2015 , september 28, 2014 and september 29, 2013 each included 52 weeks. the fiscal year ended september 30, 2012 included 53 weeks. (2) loans and debentures were included in liabilities held for sale in the consolidated balance sheet as of september 30, 2012. (3) short-term debt was comprised of outstanding commercial paper. (4) long-term debt was comprised of floating-and fixed-rate notes. (5) other long-term liabilities in this balance sheet data exclude unearned revenues. 35 item 7. management ' discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. actual results may differ materially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks described in the section entitled risk factors and elsewhere in this annual report. overview fiscal 2016 overview the transition of wireless networks and devices to 3g/4g (cdma-based, ofdma-based and cdma/ofdma multimode) continued around the world. 3g/4g connections increased to approximately 4.0 billion, up 18% year-over-year, and represent approximately 54% of total mobile connections, up from 47% at the end of fiscal 2015 . (1) revenues were $23.6 billion , a decrease of 7% compared to fiscal 2015 , with net income attributable to qualcomm of $5.7 billion , an increase of 8% compared to fiscal 2015 . qct segment. we shipped approximately 842 million mobile station modem (msm) integrated circuits for cdma- and ofdma-based wireless devices, a decrease of 10% , compared to approximately 932 million msm integrated circuits in fiscal 2015 . qct's revenues decreased by 10% , and its earnings before taxes as a percentage of revenues decreased to 12% from 14% in fiscal 2015, primarily due to the effects of a shift in share among our customers within the premium tier, which reduced our sales of integrated snapdragon processors and skewed our product mix towards lower-margin modem chipsets in this tier, a decline in share at our large customers and the competitive environment in china, partially offset by lower product costs, including lower excess inventory charges, and the impact of the acquisition of csr in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015. qtl segment. total reported device sales (2) by licensees were approximately $267.4 billion in fiscal 2016 , an increase of approximately 7% , compared to approximately $250.9 billion in fiscal 2015 . however, despite the increase in total reported device sales, qtl's revenues decreased by 4% compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to decreases in revenues per reported unit and recognition of unearned license fees, partially offset by an increase in reported sales of cdma-based products (including multimode products that also implement ofdma) and $266 million in licensing revenues recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2016 due to the termination of an infrastructure license agreement resulting from the merger of two licensees. qtl revenues and ebt in fiscal 2016 continued to be impacted negatively by units that we believe are not being reported by certain licensees and sales of certain unlicensed products. strategic realignment plan. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, we announced a strategic realignment plan designed to improve execution, enhance financial performance and drive profitable growth as we work to create sustainable long-term value for stockholders. as part of this strategic realignment plan, among other actions, we implemented a cost reduction plan, which included a series of targeted reductions across our businesses, particularly in qct, and a reduction to annual share-based compensation grants. these cost reduction initiatives were achieved by the end of fiscal 2016 . (3) during fiscal 2016, we recorded restructuring and restructuring-related charges of $202 million related to the plan. capital return program. we previously announced our intention to repurchase $10 billion of stock from march 2015 through march 2016. in the first quarter of fiscal 2016, we completed the remaining $1.9 billion of repurchases towards our $10 billion stock repurchase commitment, which includes the completion of our $5.0 billion accelerated share repurchase agreements. excluding these stock repurchases, we returned $5.0 billion to stockholders, including $2.0 billion through repurchases of common stock and $3.0 billion of cash dividends. shares outstanding decreased by 3% to 1.48 billion at september 25, 2016 from 1.52 billion at september 27, 2015 due to share repurchases, partially offset by net shares issued under our employee benefit plans. (1) according to gsma intelligence estimates as of october 31, 2016 for the quarter ended september 30, 2016 (estimates excluded wireless local loop). (2) total reported device sales is the sum of all reported sales in u.s. dollars (as reported to us by our licensees) of all licensed cdma-based, ofdma-based and cdma/ofdma multimode subscriber devices (including handsets, modules, modem cards and other subscriber devices) by our licensees during a particular period (collectively, 3g/4g devices). not all licensees report sales the same way (e.g., some licensees report sales net of permitted deductions, including transportation, insurance, packing costs and other items, while other licensees report sales and then identify the amount of permitted deductions in their reports), and the way in which licensees report such information may change from time to time. in addition, certain licensees may not report (in the quarter in which they are contractually obligated to report) their sales of certain types of subscriber units, which (as a result of audits, legal actions or for other 36 reasons) may be reported in a subsequent quarter. accordingly, total reported device sales for a particular period may include prior period activity that was not reported by the licensee until such particular period. (3) the cost reduction initiative related to certain research and development and selling, general and marketing expenses and certain non-product-related cost of revenues. it excludes the impact of the csr and capsule technologie acquisitions as well as costs of a nonreportable segment up to the amount of related revenues recognized in fiscal 2016. our business and operating segments we design, manufacture, have manufactured on our behalf and market digital communications products and services based on cdma, ofdma and other technologies. we derive revenues principally from sales of integrated circuit products and licensing our intellectual property, including patents, software and other rights. we have three reportable segments. we conduct business primarily through two reportable segments, qct (qualcomm cdma technologies) and qtl (qualcomm technology licensing), and our qsi (qualcomm strategic initiatives) reportable segment makes strategic investments. our reportable segments are operated by qualcomm incorporated and its direct and indirect subsidiaries. substantially all of our products and services businesses, including qct, and substantially all of our engineering, research and development functions, are operated by qualcomm technologies, inc. (qti), a wholly-owned subsidiary of qualcomm incorporated, and qti's subsidiaries. qtl is operated by qualcomm incorporated, which owns the vast majority of our patent portfolio. neither qti nor any of its subsidiaries has any right, power or authority to grant any licenses or other rights under or to any patents owned by qualcomm incorporated. qct is a leading developer and supplier of integrated circuits and system software based on cdma, ofdma and other technologies for use in wireless voice and data communications, networking, application processing, multimedia and global positioning system products. qct's integrated circuit products are sold and its system software is licensed to manufacturers that use our products in mobile phones, tablets, laptops, data modules, handheld wireless computers and gaming devices, access points and routers, data cards and infrastructure equipment, broadband gateway equipment and other consumer electronic devices. our msm integrated circuits, which include the mobile data modem, qualcomm single chip and snapdragon processors and lte modems, perform the core baseband modem functionality in wireless devices providing voice and data communications, as well as multimedia applications and global positioning functions. in addition, our snapdragon processors provide advanced application and graphics processing capabilities. qct's system software helps enable the other device components to interface with the integrated circuit products and is the foundation software enabling manufacturers to develop devices utilizing the functionality within the integrated circuits. qct revenues comprised 65% , 68% and 70% of our total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. qct currently utilizes a fabless production model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. integrated circuits are die cut from silicon wafers that have completed the package assembly and test manufacturing processes. we rely on independent third-party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits based primarily on our proprietary designs and test programs. our suppliers are also responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. we employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing models to purchase our integrated circuits. turnkey is when our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. under the two-stage manufacturing model, we purchase die in singular or wafer form from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-party suppliers for manufacturing services, such as wafer bump, probe, assembly and final test. qtl grants licenses or otherwise provides rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which, among other rights, includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products, including, without limitation, products implementing cdma2000, wcdma, cdma tdd and/or lte standards and their derivatives. qtl licensing revenues include license fees and royalties based on sales by licensees of products incorporating or using our intellectual property. license fees are fixed amounts paid in one or more installments. royalties are generally based upon a percentage of the wholesale (i.e., licensee's) selling price of complete licensed products, net of certain permissible deductions (including transportation, insurance, packing costs and other items). qtl recognizes royalty revenues based on royalties reported by licensees and when other revenue recognition criteria are met. licensees, however, do not report and pay royalties owed for sales in any given quarter until after the conclusion of that quarter. qtl revenues comprised 33% , 31% and 29% of our total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. the vast majority of such revenues were generated through our licensees' sales of cdma2000- and wcdma-based products, such as feature phones and smartphones. qsi makes strategic investments that are focused on opening new or expanding opportunities for our technologies and supporting the design and introduction of new products and services (or enhancing existing products or services) for voice and data communications. many of these strategic investments are in early-stage companies in a variety of industries, including, but not limited to, digital media, e-commerce, healthcare and wearable devices. investments primarily include non- 37 marketable equity instruments, which generally are recorded using the cost method or the equity method, and convertible debt instruments, which are recorded at fair value. qsi also held wireless spectrum, which was sold in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 for a gain of approximately $380 million . in addition, qsi segment results include revenues and related costs associated with development contracts with one of our equity method investees. as part of our strategic investment activities, we intend to pursue various exit strategies for each of our qsi investments in the foreseeable future. nonreportable segments include our mobile heath, data center, small cell and other wireless technology and service initiatives. seasonality. many of our products or intellectual property are incorporated into consumer wireless devices, which are subject to seasonality and other fluctuations in demand. as a result, qct has tended historically to have stronger sales toward the end of the calendar year as manufacturers prepare for major holiday selling seasons; and because qtl recognizes royalty revenues when royalties are reported by licensees, qtl has tended to record higher royalty revenues in the first calendar quarter when licensees report their sales made during the fourth calendar quarter. we have also experienced fluctuations in revenues due to the timing of conversions and expansions of 3g and 3g/4g networks by wireless operators and the timing of launches of flagship wireless devices that incorporate our products and/or intellectual property. these trends may or may not continue in the future. looking forward we expect continued growth in the coming years in consumer demand for 3g, 3g/4g multimode and 4g products and services around the world, driven primarily by smartphones. we also expect growth in new device categories and industries, driven by the expanding adoption of certain technologies that are already commonly used in smartphones. as we look forward to the next several months, we expect our business to be impacted by the following key items: on october 27, 2016 , we announced a definitive agreement under which qualcomm river holdings, b.v., an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of qualcomm incorporated, will acquire nxp semiconductors n.v. pursuant to the definitive agreement, qualcomm river holdings will commence a tender offer to acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of nxp for $110 per share in cash, for estimated total cash consideration of $38 billion . nxp is a leader in high-performance, mixed-signal semiconductor electronics in automotive, broad-based microcontrollers, secure identification, network processing and rf power products. the transaction is expected to close by the end of calendar 2017 and is subject to receipt of regulatory approvals in various jurisdictions and other closing conditions, including the tender of specified percentages (which vary from 70% to 95% based on certain circumstances as provided in the definitive agreement) of the issued and outstanding common shares of nxp in the offer. the tender offer is not subject to any financing condition; however, we intend to fund the transaction with cash held by foreign entities and new debt. we expect that this will require us to: devote significant resources and management time and attention prior to close; take on significant debt; and utilize a substantial portion of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. consumer demand for 3g/4g smartphone products is increasing in emerging regions, particularly in china, driven by availability of lower-tier-3g/4g devices. we expect the ongoing rollout of 4g services in emerging regions will encourage competition and growth, bringing the benefits of 3g/4g lte multimode to consumers. our business, particularly qct, expects to continue to be impacted by industry dynamics, including: concentration of device share among a few companies within the premium tier, resulting in significant supply chain leverage for those companies; decisions by companies to utilize their own internally-developed integrated circuit products or our competitors' integrated circuit products in a portion of their devices; intense competition, particularly in china, as our competitors expand their product offerings and/or reduce the prices of their products as part of a strategy to attract new and/or retain customers; and lengthening replacement cycles in developed regions, where the smartphone industry is mature, premium-tier smartphones are common and consumer demand is increasingly driven by new product launches and/or innovation cycles, and from increasing consumer demand in emerging regions where premium-tier smartphones are less common and replacement cycles are on average longer than in developed regions. we continue to believe that certain licensees, particularly in china, are not fully complying with their contractual obligations to report their sales of licensed products to us, and certain companies, including unlicensed companies, are delaying execution of new license agreements. while we have made substantial progress in reaching agreements 38 with many companies, negotiations with certain licensees and unlicensed companies are ongoing. we believe that the conclusion of new agreements with these companies will result in improved reporting by these licensees, including with respect to sales of three-mode devices (i.e., devices that implement gsm, td-scdma and lte-tdd) sold in china. additionally, we believe our increased efforts in the areas of compliance will also improve reporting, but will also result in increased costs to the business. litigation and/or other actions (such as the litigation against meizu technology co., ltd. described in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies ) may be necessary to compel licensees to report and pay the required royalties for sales they have not previously reported and/or to compel unlicensed companies to execute licenses. regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions continue to investigate our business practices. an unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business with remedies that include, among others, injunctions, monetary damages or fines or other orders to pay money, and the issuance of orders to cease certain conduct and/or modify our business practices. see notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies elsewhere in this annual report. we continue to invest significant resources toward advancements in 4g lte and 5g technologies, ofdm-based wlan technologies, wireless baseband chips, our converged computing/communications (snapdragon) chips, radio frequency front-end (rffe), connectivity, graphics, audio and video codecs, multimedia products, software and services, which contribute to the expansion of our intellectual property portfolio. we are also investing in targeted opportunities that leverage our existing technical and business expertise to deploy new business models and enter into new industry segments, such as products for automotive, the internet of things (iot), including the connected home, smart cities and wearables, data center, networking, mobile computing, mobile health and machine learning, including robotics, among others. in january 2016, we announced that we had reached an agreement with tdk corporation to form a joint venture, under the name rf360 holdings singapore pte. ltd., to enable delivery of rffe modules and rf filters into fully integrated products for mobile devices and iot applications, among others. the joint venture will initially be owned 51% by us and 49% by tdk. certain intellectual property, patents and filter and module design and manufacturing assets will be carved out of existing tdk businesses and be acquired by the joint venture, with certain assets acquired by us. the purchase price of our interest in the joint venture and the assets to be transferred to us is $1.2 billion , to be adjusted for working capital, outstanding indebtedness and certain capital expenditures, among other things. additionally, we have the option to acquire (and tdk has an option to sell) tdk's interest in the joint venture for $1.15 billion 30 months after the closing date. tdk will be entitled to up to a total of $200 million in payments based on sales of rf filter functions over the three-year period after the closing date, which is a substitute for and in lieu of any right of tdk to receive any profit sharing, distributions, dividends or other payments of any kind or nature. the transaction is subject to receipt of regulatory approvals and other closing conditions and is expected to close in early calendar 2017. in addition to the foregoing business and market-based matters, we continue to devote resources to working with and educating participants in the wireless value chain and governments as to the benefits of our business model and our extensive technology investments in promoting a highly competitive and innovative wireless industry. however, we expect that certain companies may continue to be dissatisfied with the need to pay reasonable royalties for the use of our technology and not welcome the success of our business model in enabling new, highly cost-effective competitors to their products. we expect that such companies, and/or governments or regulators, will continue to challenge our business model in various forums throughout the world. further discussion of risks related to our business is presented in the risk factors included in this annual report. critical accounting estimates the preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. we base our estimates on historical and anticipated results and trends and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, including assumptions as to future events. by their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. although we believe that our estimates and the assumptions supporting our assessments are reasonable, actual results that differ from our estimates could be material to our consolidated financial statements. a summary of our significant accounting policies is included in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1. the company and its significant accounting policies. we consider the following accounting estimates to be critical in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. 39 impairment of marketable securities and other investments. we hold investments in marketable securities, with increases and decreases in fair value generally recorded through stockholders' equity as other comprehensive income or loss. we record impairment losses in earnings when we believe an investment has experienced a decline that is other than temporary. the determination that a decline is other than temporary is subjective and influenced by many factors. adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of investees could result in losses or an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments, thereby requiring recognition of impairment losses. when assessing these investments for an other-than-temporary decline in value, we consider such factors as, among other things, the significance of the decline in value as compared to the cost basis; underlying factors contributing to a decline in the prices of securities in a single asset class; how long the market value of the security has been less than its cost basis; the security's relative performance versus its peers, sector or asset class; expected market volatility; the market and economy in general; analyst recommendations and price targets; views of external investment managers; news or financial information that has been released specific to the investee; and the outlook for the overall industry in which the investee operates, as applicable. during fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , we recorded $112 million , $163 million and $156 million , respectively, in impairment losses on our investments in marketable securities. as of september 25, 2016, we had gross unrealized losses of $105 million . prior to closing the nxp transaction, we expect to divest a substantial portion of our marketable securities portfolio in order to finance our proposed acquisition, which may result in losses in our results of operations. we also hold investments in non-marketable equity instruments in privately held companies that are accounted for using either the cost or the equity method. many of these investments are in early-stage companies, which are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products of these companies are uncertain and may never develop. we monitor our investments for events or circumstances that could indicate the investments are impaired, such as a deterioration in the investee's financial condition and business forecasts and lower valuations in recently completed or proposed financings, and we record impairment losses in earnings when we believe an investment has experienced a decline in value that is other than temporary. valuation of inventories. inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market (replacement cost, not to exceed net realizable value) using the first-in, first-out method. recoverability of inventories is assessed based on review of future customer demand that considers multiple factors, including committed purchase orders from customers as well as purchase commitment projections provided by customers, among other things. this valuation also requires us to make judgments and assumptions based on information currently available about market conditions, including competition, product pricing, product life cycle and development plans. if we overestimate demand for our products, the amount of our loss will be impacted by our contractual ability to reduce inventory purchases from our suppliers. our assumptions of future product demand are inherently uncertain, and changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material write-downs in the future. valuation of goodwill and other indefinite-lived and long-lived assets . our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. we also acquire intangible assets and property, plant and equipment in other types of transactions. the determination of the recorded value of intangible assets acquired in a business combination requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. for intangible assets acquired in a non-monetary exchange, the estimated fair values of the assets transferred (or the estimated fair values of the assets received, if more clearly evident) are used to establish their recorded values, unless the values of neither the assets received nor the assets transferred are determinable within reasonable limits, in which case the assets received are measured based on the carrying values of the assets transferred. valuation techniques consistent with the market approach, income approach and/or cost approach are used to measure fair value. an estimate of fair value can be affected by many assumptions that require significant judgment. for example, the income approach generally requires us to use assumptions to estimate future cash flows including those related to total addressable market, pricing and share forecasts, competition, technology obsolescence, future tax rates and discount rates. our estimate of the fair value of certain assets may differ materially from that determined by others who use different assumptions or utilize different business models. goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested annually for impairment and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying amounts may be impaired. long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment and intangible assets subject to amortization, are reviewed for impairment when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets and long-lived assets may be based on operational performance of our businesses, market conditions, expected selling price and/or other factors. although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use, including estimates of future cash flows and discount rates, are consistent with our internal planning, when appropriate. if these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record an impairment charge on a 40 portion or all of our goodwill, other indefinite-lived intangible assets and/or long-lived assets. furthermore, we cannot predict the occurrence of future impairment-triggering events nor the impact such events might have on our reported asset values. future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that goodwill or other intangible assets associated with our acquired businesses are impaired. any resulting impairment loss could have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. during fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , we recorded $107 million , $317 million and $642 million , respectively, in impairment charges for goodwill, other indefinite-lived intangible assets and long-lived assets. the estimated fair values of our qct and qtl reporting units were substantially in excess of their respective carrying values at september 25, 2016. legal proceedings. we are currently involved in certain legal proceedings, and we intend to continue to vigorously defend ourselves. however, the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. a broad range of remedies with respect to our business practices that are deemed to violate applicable laws are potentially available. these remedies may include, among others, injunctions, monetary damages or fines or other orders to pay money and the issuance of orders to cease certain conduct and/or to modify our business practices. we disclose a loss contingency if there is at least a reasonable possibility that a material loss has been incurred. we record our best estimate of a loss related to pending legal proceedings when the loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. where a range of loss can be reasonably estimated with no best estimate in the range, we record the minimum estimated liability. as additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability, including the probability of loss related to pending legal proceedings, and revise our estimates and update our disclosures accordingly. significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable. revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could materially impact our results of operations. income taxes. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions, and the assessment of our income tax positions involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in various taxing jurisdictions. in addition, the application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. tax laws and regulations themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, the evolution of regulations and court rulings. significant judgments and estimates are required in determining our provision for income taxes, including those related to tax incentives, intercompany research and development cost-sharing arrangements, transfer pricing and tax credits. while we believe we have appropriate support for the positions taken on our tax returns, we regularly assess the potential outcomes of examinations by taxing authorities in determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. therefore, the actual liability for united states or foreign taxes may be materially different from our estimates, which could result in the need to record additional tax liabilities or potentially reverse previously recorded tax liabilities. we are participating in the internal revenue service (irs) compliance assurance process program whereby we endeavor to agree with the irs on the treatment of all issues prior to filing our federal return. a benefit of participation in this program is that post-filing adjustments by the irs are less likely to occur. our qct segment's non-united states headquarters is located in singapore. we obtained tax incentives in singapore that commenced in march 2012, including a tax exemption for the first five years, provided that we meet specified employment and incentive criteria, and as a result of the expiration of these incentives, our singapore tax rate is expected to increase in fiscal 2017 and again in fiscal 2027. our failure to meet these criteria could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. we consider the operating earnings of certain non-united states subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside the united states based on our plans for use and/or investment outside of the united states and our belief that our sources of cash and liquidity in the united states will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs. on a regular basis, we consider projected cash needs for, among other things, potential acquisitions, such as our proposed acquisition of nxp, investments in our existing businesses, future research and development and capital transactions, including repurchases of our common stock, dividends and debt repayments. we estimate the amount of cash or other liquidity that is available or needed in the jurisdictions where these investments are expected as well as our ability to generate cash in those jurisdictions and our access to capital markets. this analysis enables us to conclude whether or not we will indefinitely reinvest the current period's foreign earnings. we have not recorded a deferred tax liability of approximately $11.5 billion related to the united states federal and state income taxes and foreign withholding taxes on approximately $32.5 billion of undistributed earnings of certain non-united states subsidiaries indefinitely reinvested outside the united states. should we decide to no longer indefinitely reinvest such earnings outside the united states, for example, if we determine that such earnings are needed to fund future domestic operations or there is not a sufficient need for such earnings outside of the united states, we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period we make such determination. 41 results of operations revenues (in millions) 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 change 2015 vs. 2014 change equipment and services $ 15,467 $ 17,079 $ 18,625 $ (1,612 ) $ (1,546 ) licensing 8,087 8,202 7,862 (115 ) 340 $ 23,554 $ 25,281 $ 26,487 $ (1,727 ) $ (1,206 ) the decreases in equipment and services revenues in fiscal 2016 and 2015 were primarily due to decreases in qct revenues of $1.76 billion and $1.49 billion, respectively. the decrease in equipment and services revenues in fiscal 2016 was partially offset by increases in a nonreportable segment's revenues and qsi revenues of $56 million and $43 million, respectively. the decrease in licensing revenues in fiscal 2016 was primarily due to the decrease in qtl revenues, partially offset by an increase in a nonreportable segment's revenues of $143 million. the increase in our licensing revenues in fiscal 2015 was primarily due to an increase in qtl revenues of $378 million. qct and qtl segment revenues related to the products of samsung electronics and hon hai precision industry co., ltd/foxconn, its affiliates and other suppliers to apple inc. comprised 40%, 45% and 49% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. revenues from customers in china, south korea and taiwan comprised 57% , 17% and 12% , respectively, of total consolidated revenues for fiscal 2016 , compared to 53% , 16% and 13% , respectively, for fiscal 2015 , and 50% , 23% and 11% , respectively, for fiscal 2014 . we report revenues from external customers by country based on the location to which our products or services are delivered, which for qct is generally the country in which our customers manufacture their products, or for licensing revenues, the invoiced addresses of our licensees. as a result, the revenues by country presented herein are not necessarily indicative of either the country in which the devices containing our products and/or intellectual property are ultimately sold to consumers or the country in which the companies that sell the devices are headquartered. for example, china revenues would include revenues related to shipments of integrated circuits to a company that is headquartered in south korea but that manufactures devices in china, which devices are then sold to consumers in europe and/or the united states. costs and expenses (in millions) 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 change 2015 vs. 2014 change cost of revenues $ 9,749 $ 10,378 $ 10,686 $ (629 ) $ (308 ) gross margin 59 % 59 % 60 % the margin percentage in fiscal 2016 remained flat primarily due to the effect of $163 million in additional charges related to the amortization of intangible assets and the recognition of the step-up of inventories to fair value primarily related to the acquisition of csr plc in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, offset by the impact of higher-margin segment mix primarily related to qtl. the decrease in margin percentage in fiscal 2015 was primarily attributable to a decrease in qct gross margin percentage. our margin percentage may continue to fluctuate in future periods depending on the mix of products sold and services provided, competitive pricing, new product introduction costs and other factors. 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 change 2015 vs. 2014 change research and development $ 5,151 $ 5,490 $ 5,477 $ (339 ) $ 13 % of revenues 22 % 22 % 21 % selling, general, and administrative $ 2,385 $ 2,344 $ 2,290 $ 41 $ 54 % of revenues 10 % 9 % 9 % other $ (226 ) $ 1,293 $ 484 $ (1,519 ) $ 809 the dollar decrease in research and development expenses in fiscal 2016 was primarily attributable to a decrease of $228 million in costs related to the development of integrated circuit technologies and related software products. such decrease was primarily driven by actions initiated under the strategic realignment plan, partially offset by increased research and development costs resulting from acquisitions. the decrease in research and development expenses in fiscal 2016 also 42 included decreases of $67 million in development costs of display technologies and $45 million in share-based compensation expense. the dollar increase in research and development expenses in fiscal 2015 was primarily attributable to an increase of $117 million in costs related to the development of integrated circuit technologies and related software products, partially offset by a decrease of $72 million related to the development costs of display technologies and additional decreases related to the development costs of other new product and licensing initiatives. the dollar increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2016 was primarily attributable to increases of $65 million in costs related to litigation and other legal matters, $39 million in employee-related expenses and $27 million in depreciation and amortization expense, partially offset by decreases of $36 million in share-based compensation expense, $21 million in selling and marketing expenses, $19 million in professional services and $17 million in patent-related costs. the dollar increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2015 was primarily attributable to increases of $73 million in selling and marketing expenses and $46 million in costs related to litigation and other legal matters, partially offset by decreases of $49 million in employee-related expenses and $13 million in share-based compensation. other income in fiscal 2016 was primarily attributable to a $380 million gain on the sale of wireless spectrum, partially offset by be net charges related to our strategic realignment plan, which included $202 million in restructuring and restructuring-related charges, partially offset by a $48 million gain on the sale of our business that provided augmented reality applications. other expenses in fiscal 2015 were attributable to a $975 million charge resulting from the resolution reached with the ndrc, charges of $255 million and $11 million for impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, respectively, related to our content and push-to-talk services and display businesses and $190 million in restructuring and restructuring-related charges related to our strategic realignment plan, partially offset by $138 million in gains on sales of certain property plant and equipment. other expenses in fiscal 2014 were comprised of $607 million in certain property, plant and equipment and goodwill impairment charges and $19 million in restructuring-related costs incurred by one of our display businesses, a $16 million goodwill impairment charge related to our former qrs (qualcomm retail solutions) division and a $15 million legal settlement, partially offset by the reversal of a $173 million expense accrual recorded in fiscal 2013 related to the parkervision verdict against us, which was overturned. interest expense and net investment income (in millions) 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 change 2015 vs. 2014 change interest expense $ 297 $ 104 $ 5 $ 193 $ 99 investment income, net interest and dividend income $ 611 $ 527 $ 586 $ 84 $ (59 ) net realized gains on marketable securities 239 451 770 (212 ) (319 ) net realized gains on other investments 49 49 56 (7 ) impairment losses on marketable securities and other investments (172 ) (200 ) (180 ) 28 (20 ) equity in net losses of investees (84 ) (32 ) (10 ) (52 ) (22 ) other (8 ) 20 11 (28 ) 9 $ 635 $ 815 $ 1,233 $ (180 ) $ (418 ) the increase in interest expense in fiscal 2016 and 2015 was primarily due to the issuance of an aggregate principal amount of $10.0 billion in floating- and fixed-rate notes in may 2015 . income tax expense (in millions) 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs. 2015 change 2015 vs. 2014 change income tax expense $ 1,131 $ 1,219 $ 1,244 $ (88 ) $ (25 ) effective tax rate 17 % 19 % 14 % (2 )% 5 % 43 the following table summarizes the primary factors that caused our annual effective tax rates to be less than the united states federal statutory rate: 2016 2015 2014 expected income tax provision at federal statutory tax rate 35 % 35 % 35 % benefits from foreign income taxed at other than u.s. rates (16 %) (14 %) (20 %) benefits related to the research and development tax credits (2 %) (2 %) (1 %) worthless stock deduction of domestic subsidiary (1 %) other 1 % effective tax rate 17 % 19 % 14 % the annual effective tax rate of 17% for fiscal 2016 reflected a $101 million tax benefit recorded discretely in the third quarter resulting from a worthless stock deduction on a domestic subsidiary of one of our former display businesses and a $79 million benefit of the retroactive reinstatement of the united states federal research and development credit recorded discretely during the first quarter of fiscal 2016 related to fiscal 2015. the effective tax rate for our state income tax provision, net of federal benefit, was negligible for all years presented. during fiscal 2015, the ndrc imposed a fine of $975 million, which was not deductible for tax purposes and was substantially attributable to a foreign jurisdiction. additionally, during fiscal 2015, we recorded a tax benefit of $101 million related to fiscal 2014 resulting from the united states government reinstating the federal research and development tax credit retroactively to january 1, 2014 through december 31, 2014. the effective tax rate for fiscal 2015 also reflected the united states federal research and development tax credit generated through december 31, 2014, the date on which the credit expired and a $61 million tax benefit as a result of a favorable tax audit settlement with the internal revenue service (irs) related to qualcomm atheros, inc.'s pre-acquisition 2010 and 2011 tax returns. the annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2014 reflected the tax benefit from the united states federal research and development tax credit generated through december 31, 2013, the date on which the credit previously expired. the effective tax rate for fiscal 2014 also reflected a tax benefit of $66 million related to fiscal 2013 resulting from an agreement reached with the irs on components of our fiscal 2013 tax return. the annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 also reflected tax benefits for certain tax incentives obtained in singapore that commenced in march 2012, including a tax exemption for the first five years, provided that we meet specified employment and other criteria. our singapore tax rate is expected to increase in fiscal 2017 and again in fiscal 2027 as a result of the expiration of these incentives. unrecognized tax benefits were $271 million and $40 million at september 25, 2016 and september 27, 2015 , respectively. the increase in unrecognized tax benefits in fiscal 2016 was primarily due to tax positions related to classification of income. we believe that it is reasonably possible that the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits at september 25, 2016 may increase or decrease in the next 12 months. our segment results the following should be read in conjunction with the fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014 financial results for each reportable segment included in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 8. segment information. 44 (in millions) qct qtl qsi 2016 revenues $ 15,409 $ 7,664 $ 47 ebt (1) 1,812 6,528 386 ebt as a % of revenues 12 % 85 % 2015 revenues $ 17,154 $ 7,947 $ 4 ebt (1) 2,465 6,882 (74 ) ebt as a % of revenues 14 % 87 % 2014 revenues $ 18,665 $ 7,569 $ ebt (1) 3,807 6,590 (7 ) ebt as a % of revenues 20 % 87 % (1) earnings (loss) before taxes. qct segment. qct results of operations in fiscal 2016 were negatively impacted by the effects of a shift in share among our customers within the premium tier, which reduced our sales of integrated snapdragon processors and skewed our product mix towards lower-margin modem chipsets in this tier, a decline in share at our large customers and the competitive environment in china. the decreases in qct revenues in fiscal 2016 and 2015 of $1.75 billion and $1.51 billion , respectively, were primarily due to decreases in equipment and services revenues. equipment and services revenues, mostly related to sales of msm and accompanying radio frequency (rf) and power management (pm) integrated circuits, were $15.18 billion , $16.95 billion and $18.43 billion in fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. the decrease in equipment and services revenues in fiscal 2016 resulted primarily from decreases of $1.35 billion related to lower msm and accompanying rf and pm unit shipments and $1.14 billion from lower average selling prices and lower-priced product mix, partially offset by a net increase of $753 million in revenues related to other products, primarily related to higher connectivity shipments resulting from the acquisition of csr in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015. the decrease in equipment and services revenues in fiscal 2015 resulted primarily from a decrease of $2.89 billion from lower-priced product mix and lower average selling prices, partially offset by an increase of $1.26 billion related to higher msm and accompanying rf and pm unit shipments. approximately 842 million , 932 million and 861 million msm integrated circuits were sold during fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. qct ebt as a percentage of revenues decreased in fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to the impact of lower revenues relative to operating expenses. qct gross margin percentage remained flat in fiscal 2016 primarily as a result of lower average selling prices and lower-margin product mix, offset by lower average unit costs and lower excess inventory charges. qct ebt as a percentage of revenues decreased in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to a decrease in gross margin percentage and the related impact of lower revenues relative to operating expenses. the decrease in qct gross margin percentage in fiscal 2015 primarily resulted from lower average selling prices and lower-margin product mix, partially offset by lower average unit costs. qct gross margin percentage in fiscal 2015 was also impacted by an increase of $179 million in excess inventory charges. qtl segment. the decrease in qtl revenues in fiscal 2016 of $283 million was primarily attributable to decreases in revenues per reported unit and recognition of unearned license fees, partially offset by an increase in reported sales of cdma-based products (including multimode products that also implement ofdma) and $266 million in licensing revenues recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2016 due to the termination of an infrastructure license agreement resulting from the merger of two licensees. qtl revenues and ebt in fiscal 2016 continued to be impacted negatively by units that we believe are not being reported by certain licensees and sales of certain unlicensed products. while we have reached agreements with many licensees, negotiations with certain other licensees and unlicensed companies are ongoing, and additional litigation may become necessary if negotiations fail to resolve the relevant issues. the increase in qtl revenues in fiscal 2015 of $378 million was primarily due to an increase in sales of cdma-based products, including multimode products that also implement ofdma, reported by licensees, partially offset by a decrease in revenues per reported unit. qtl revenues and ebt in fiscal 2015 were impacted negatively by units that we believe were not being reported by certain licensees and sales of certain unlicensed products in china. also in fiscal 2015, qtl experienced negative fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. 45 qsi segment . the increase in qsi ebt in fiscal 2016 was primarily due to a $380 million gain on the sale of wireless spectrum, an increase of $47 million in net realized gains on investments and a decrease of $21 million in impairment losses on investments. the decrease in qsi ebt in fiscal 2015 of $67 million was primarily due to increases of $32 million in impairment losses on investments and $29 million in equity losses and other costs related to our equity method investments. liquidity and capital resources on october 27, 2016 , we announced a definitive agreement under which qualcomm river holdings will acquire nxp. pursuant to the definitive agreement, qualcomm river holdings will commence a tender offer to acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of nxp for $110 per share in cash, for estimated total cash consideration of $38 billion . the transaction is expected to close by the end of calendar 2017 and is subject to receipt of regulatory approvals in various jurisdictions and other closing conditions. we intend to fund the transaction with cash held by foreign entities, which will result in the use of a substantial portion of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, as well as new debt, and we secured $13.6 billion in committed financing in connection with signing the definitive agreement. qualcomm river holdings and nxp may terminate the definitive agreement under certain circumstances. if the definitive agreement is terminated by nxp in certain circumstances, nxp will be required to pay qualcomm river holdings a termination fee of $1.25 billion . if the definitive agreement is terminated by qualcomm river holdings under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain the required regulatory approvals or the failure of nxp to complete certain pre-closing reorganization steps in all material respects, qualcomm river holdings will be required to pay nxp a termination fee of $2.0 billion . our principal sources of liquidity are our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, cash provided by our debt programs and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans. the following table presents selected financial information related to our liquidity as of and for the years ended september 25, 2016 and september 27, 2015 (in millions): 2016 2015 $ change % change cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 32,350 $ 30,947 $ 1,403 5 % accounts receivable, net 2,219 1,964 255 13 % inventories 1,556 1,492 64 4 % short-term debt 1,749 1,000 749 75 % long-term debt 10,008 9,969 39 % net cash provided by operating activities 7,400 5,506 1,894 34 % net cash used by investing activities (3,488 ) (3,572 ) 84 2 % net cash used by financing activities (5,522 ) (2,261 ) (3,261 ) the net increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was primarily the result of net cash provided by operating activities and net proceeds from short-term debt, partially offset by $3.9 billion in payments to repurchase shares of our common stock and $3.0 billion in cash dividends paid. total cash provided by operating activities increased primarily due to changes in working capital, which was impacted by a prepayment of $950 million in fiscal 2015 to secure long-term capacity commitments at a supplier of our integrated circuit products, and an increase in net income of $434 million . our da ys sales outstanding, on a consolidated basis, were 33 days at september 25, 2016 and september 27, 2015 . the increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to the timing of the collection of payments from certain of our licensees. the increase in inventories was primarily due to an increase in the overall quantity of units on hand to align with near-term demand, partially offset by lower average unit costs. our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at september 25, 2016 consisted of $2.8 billion held by united states-based entities and $29.6 billion held by foreign entities. most of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held by foreign entities are indefinitely reinvested and would be subject to material tax effects if repatriated. however, we believe that our united states sources of cash and liquidity are sufficient to meet our business needs in the united states and do not expect that we will need to repatriate the funds. we believe our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, our expected cash flow generated from operations and our expected financing activities will satisfy our working and other capital requirements for at least the next 12 months based on our current business plans. recent and expected working and other capital requirements, in addition to our proposed acquisition of nxp, also include the items described below. 46 our purchase obligations at september 25, 2016 , some of which relate to research and development activities and capital expenditures, totaled $4.2 billion and $886 million for fiscal 2017 and 2018, respectively, and $1.0 billion thereafter. our research and development expenditures were $5.2 billion and $5.5 billion during fiscal 2016 and 2015 , respectively, and we expect to continue to invest heavily in research and development for new technologies, applications and services for voice and data communications. cash outflows for capital expenditures were $539 million and $994 million during fiscal 2016 and 2015 , respectively. we expect to continue to incur capital expenditures in the future to support our business, including research and development activities. future capital expenditures may be impacted by transactions that are currently not forecasted. in january 2016, we announced that we had reached agreement with tdk corporation to form a joint venture, under the name rf360 holdings singapore pte. ltd. the joint venture will initially be owned 51% by us and 49% by tdk. the purchase price due upon close of the transaction is $1.2 billion , to be adjusted for working capital, outstanding indebtedness and certain capital expenditures, among other things. additionally, we have the option to acquire (and tdk has an option to sell) tdk's interest in the joint venture for $1.15 billion 30 months after the closing date. we expect to use existing cash resources to fund the acquisition. tdk will be entitled to up to a total of $200 million in payments based on sales of rf filter functions over the three-year period after the closing date. the transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and other closing conditions and is expected to close in early calendar 2017. we expect to continue making strategic investments and acquisitions, the amounts of which could vary significantly, to open new opportunities for our technologies, obtain development resources, grow our patent portfolio or pursue new businesses. debt. we have a revolving credit facility that provides for unsecured revolving facility loans, swing line loans and letters of credit in an aggregate amount of up to $4.0 billion , expiring in february 2020 . at september 25, 2016 , no amounts were outstanding under the revolving credit facility. we have an unsecured commercial paper program, which provides for the issuance of up to $4.0 billion of commercial paper. net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. at september 25, 2016 , we had $1.7 billion of commercial paper outstanding with weighted-average net interest rates of 0.52% and weighted-average remaining days to maturity of 36 days . in may 2015 , we issued an aggregate principal amount of $10.0 billion in eight tranches of unsecured floating- and fixed-rate notes, with maturity dates in 2018 through 2045 and effective interest rates between 0.93% and 4.74% . interest is payable in arrears quarterly for the floating-rate notes and semi-annually for the fixed-rate notes. in addition to the new debt we expect to issue in connection with our proposed acquisition of nxp, we may also issue debt in the future. the amount and timing of such additional borrowings will be subject to a number of factors, including the cash flow generated by united states-based entities, acquisitions and strategic investments, acceptable interest rates and changes in corporate income tax law, among other factors. additional information regarding our outstanding debt at september 25, 2016 is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 6. debt. capital return program. the following table summarizes stock repurchases and dividends paid during fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014 (in millions, except per-share amounts): stock repurchase program dividends total shares average price paid per share amount per share amount amount 2016 73.8 $ 53.16 $ 3,922 $ 2.02 $ 2,990 $ 6,912 2015 172.4 65.21 11,245 1.80 2,880 14,125 2014 60.3 75.48 4,548 1.54 2,586 7,134 on march 9, 2015 , we announced that we had been authorized to repurchase up to $15 billion of our common stock. additionally, we announced our intention to repurchase $10 billion of stock from march 2015 through march 2016, which we completed during the first quarter of fiscal 2016. at september 25, 2016 , $3.0 billion remained authorized for repurchase under our stock repurchase program. since september 25, 2016 , we repurchased and retired 1,865,000 shares of common 47 stock for $124 million . as a result of our proposed acquisition of nxp and the pending use of our cash and marketable securities, we currently expect to repurchase shares during the next few years to offset dilution. we periodically evaluate repurchases as a means of returning capital to stockholders to determine when and if repurchases are in the best interests of our stockholders. on october 6, 2016 , we announced a cash dividend of $0.53 per share on our common stock, payable on december 16, 2016 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on november 30, 2016 . we intend to continue to use cash dividends as a means of returning capital to stockholders, subject to capital availability and our view that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders. contractual obligations/off-balance sheet arrangements we have no significant contractual obligations not fully recorded on our consolidated balance sheets or fully disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. we have no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in regulation s-k 303(a)(4)(ii). the following table summarizes the payments due by fiscal period for our outstanding contractual obligations at september 25, 2016 (in millions): total 2017 2018-2019 2020-2021 beyond 2021 no expiration date purchase obligations (1) $ 6,104 $ 4,204 $ 1,635 $ 260 $ 5 $ operating lease obligations 338 94 132 76 36 equity funding and financing commitments (2) 251 16 87 12 134 2 long-term debt (3) 10,000 1,500 2,000 6,500 other long-term liabilities (4)(5) 240 4 191 31 3 11 total contractual obligations $ 16,933 $ 4,318 $ 3,545 $ 2,379 $ 6,678 $ 13 (1) total purchase obligations include commitments to purchase integrated circuit product inventories of $3.4 billion , $766 million , $673 million and $158 million for each of the subsequent four years from fiscal 2017 through 2020, respectively; there were no such purchase commitments thereafter. integrated circuit product inventory obligations represent purchase commitments for semiconductor die, finished goods and manufacturing services, such as wafer bump, probe, assembly and final test. under our manufacturing relationships with our foundry suppliers and assembly and test service providers, cancelation of outstanding purchase orders is generally allowed but requires payment of all costs incurred through the date of cancelation, and in some cases, incremental fees related to capacity underutilization. (2) certain of these commitments do not have fixed funding dates and are subject to certain conditions. commitments represent the maximum amounts to be funded under these arrangements; actual funding may be in lesser amounts or not at all. (3) the amounts noted herein represent contractual payments of principal only. (4) certain long-term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet, such as unearned revenues, are not presented in this table because they do not require cash settlement in the future. other long-term liabilities as presented in this table include the related current portions, as applicable. (5) our consolidated balance sheet at september 25, 2016 included $140 million in noncurrent liabilities for uncertain tax positions, some of which may result in cash payment. the future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of cash settlement with the taxing authorities. additional information regarding our financial commitments at september 25, 2016 is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 3. income taxes, note 6. debt and note 7. commitments and contingencies. recent accounting pronouncements information regarding recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of those pronouncements, if any, on our consolidated financial statements is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1. the company and its significant accounting policies. 48 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk - debt and interest rate swap agreements. we issued an aggregate principal amount of $10.0 billion of unsecured floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturity dates. we also entered into interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $3.0 billion to effectively convert certain fixed-rate interest payments into floating-rate payments. the interest rates on our floating-rate notes and interest rate swaps are based on libor. by issuing the floating-rate notes and entering into the interest rate swap agreements, we have assumed risks associated with variable interest rates based upon libor. at september 25, 2016 , a hypothetical increase in libor-based interest rates of 100 basis points would cause our interest expense to increase by $30 million on an annualized basis as it relates to our floating-rate notes and the interest rate swap agreements. additionally, we have a commercial paper program that provides for the issuance of up to $4.0 billion of commercial paper. at september 25, 2016 , we had $1.7 billion of commercial paper outstanding, with original maturities of less than 4 months. changes in interest rates could affect the amounts of interest that we pay if we refinance the current outstanding commercial paper with new debt. additional information regarding our notes and related interest rate swap agreements and commercial paper program is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1. the company and its significant accounting policies and notes to consolidated financial statements, note 6. debt. interest rate risk - investment portfolio. we invest a portion of our cash in a number of diversified fixed- and floating- rate securities, consisting of cash equivalents, marketable debt securities, debt funds and derivative instruments related to our investment portfolio (including interest rate swaps) that are subject to interest rate risk. changes in the general level of interest rates can affect the fair value of our investment portfolio. if interest rates in the general economy were to rise, our holdings could lose value. at september 25, 2016 , a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 basis points across the entire yield curve on our holdings would have resulted in a decrease of $501 million in the fair value of our holdings. equity price risk. we hold a diversified marketable securities portfolio that includes equity securities and fund shares that are subject to equity price risk. we have made investments in marketable equity securities of companies of varying size, style, industry and geography, and changes in investment allocations may affect the price volatility of our investments. a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and fund shares at september 25, 2016 would have caused a decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities of $175 million. at september 25, 2016 , gross unrealized losses of our marketable equity securities and fund shares were $12 million . although we consider the unrealized losses to be temporary, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges or realized losses on the values of these securities if they do not recover in value within a reasonable period. we also hold investments in non-marketable equity instruments in privately held companies that may be impacted by equity price risks. volatility in the equity markets could negatively affect our investees' ability to raise additional capital as well as our ability to realize value from our investments through initial public offerings, mergers and private sales. consequently, we could incur other-than-temporary impairment losses or realized losses on all or a part of the values of our non-marketable equity investments. at september 25, 2016 , the carrying value of our non-marketable equity investments was $855 million and was included in other noncurrent assets. foreign exchange risk. we manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial counterparties. we utilize such derivative financial instruments for hedging or risk management purposes rather than for speculation purposes. counterparties to our derivative contracts are all major banking institutions. in the event of the financial insolvency or distress of a counterparty to our derivative financial instruments, we may be unable to settle transactions if the counterparty does not provide us with sufficient collateral to secure its net settlement obligations to us, which could have a negative impact on our results. a description of our foreign currency accounting policies is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1. the company and its significant accounting policies. at september 25, 2016 , our net liability related to foreign currency option and forward contracts designated as hedges of foreign currency risk (on royalties earned from certain licensees on their sales of cdma-based devices) was negligible. if our forecasted royalty revenues for currencies in which we hedge were to decline by 20% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in our hedged foreign currency, we would not incur a loss as our hedge positions would continue to be fully effective. at september 25, 2016 , our net asset related to foreign currency option and forward contracts designated as hedges of foreign currency risk (on certain operating expenditure transactions) was negligible. if our forecasted operating expenditures 49 for currencies in which we hedge were to decline by 20% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in our hedged foreign currency, we would incur a negligible loss. financial assets and liabilities held by consolidated subsidiaries that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. as a global company, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. as a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. while we may hedge certain transactions with non-united states customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate the risks discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks.risk factors 18 risk factors below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this annual report. readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report. we undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this annual report. readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this annual report, which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. part i item 1. business we incorporated in california in 1985 and reincorporated in delaware in 1991. we operate and report using a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the last sunday in september. our 52-week fiscal years consist of four equal fiscal quarters of 13 weeks each, and our 53-week fiscal years consist of three 13-week fiscal quarters and one 14-week fiscal quarter. the financial results for our 53-week fiscal years and our 14-week fiscal quarters will not be exactly comparable to our 52-week fiscal years and our 13-week fiscal quarters. the fiscal years ended september 24, 2017 , september 25, 2016 and september 27, 2015 included 52 weeks. overview we are a global leader in the development and commercialization of foundational technologies and products used in mobile devices and other wireless products, including network equipment, broadband gateway equipment and consumer electronic devices. our inventions helped power the growth in smartphones, which have connected billions of people. we are a pioneer in 3g (third generation) and 4g (fourth generation) wireless technologies, and are now a leader in 5g (fifth generation) wireless technologies to empower a new era of intelligent, connected devices. our technologies and products are also used in industry segments beyond mobile, including automotive, iot (internet of things), data center, networking, computing and machine learning, and allow millions of devices to connect with each other in new ways. we derive revenues principally from sales of integrated circuit products and licensing our intellectual property, including patents, software and other rights. the foundational technologies we invent help power the modern mobile experience. we share these inventions broadly through our licensing program, ensuring wide ecosystem access to technologies at the core of mobile innovation, and through the sale of our wireless chipset platforms and other products, which accelerates consumer adoption of experiences empowered by these inventions. as a company, we collaborate across the ecosystem, including manufacturers, operators, developers, governments and industry standards organizations, to create a global environment that drives continued progress and growth. we have a long history of driving innovation. we played a leading role in developing the inventions that serve as the foundation for 3g and 4g wireless technologies, which are expected to serve as the basis for 5g wireless technologies. this includes the cdma (code division multiple access) and ofdma (orthogonal frequency division multiple access) families of technologies, with the latter encompassing lte (long term evolution), which, along with tdma (time division multiple access), are the primary digital technologies currently used to transmit a wireless device user's voice or data over radio waves using a public cellular wireless network. we own significant intellectual property applicable to products that implement any version of cdma and ofdma, including patents, patent applications and trade secrets. companies in the mobile communications industry generally recognize that any company seeking to develop, manufacture and/or sell 4 subscriber units or infrastructure equipment that use cdma-based and/or ofdma-based technologies will require a license or other rights to use our patents. we also develop and commercialize numerous other key technologies used in handsets and other wireless devices that contribute to end-user demand, and we own substantial intellectual property related to these technologies. some of these inventions were contributed to and are being commercialized as industry standards, such as certain video and audio codec, wireless lan (local area network), gps (global positioning system) and positioning and bluetooth. other technologies widely used by wireless devices that we have developed are not related to any industry standards, such as operating systems, user interfaces, graphics and camera processing functionality, rf (radio frequency) and antenna design and application processor architectures. our patents cover a wide range of technologies across the entire wireless system (including wireless devices and infrastructure equipment) and not just what is embodied in chipsets. we are organized on the basis of products and services and have three reportable segments. we conduct business primarily through our qct (qualcomm cdma technologies) semiconductor business and our qtl (qualcomm technology licensing) licensing business. qct develops and supplies integrated circuits (also known as chips or chipsets) and system software based on cdma, ofdma and other technologies for use in mobile devices, wireless networks, devices used in the internet of things (iot), broadband gateway equipment, consumer electronic devices and automotive telematics and infotainment systems. qtl grants licenses to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products. our qsi (qualcomm strategic initiatives) reportable segment makes strategic investments. we also have nonreportable segments, including our mobile health, data center, small cell and other wireless technology and service initiatives. industry trends the mobile industry has experienced tremendous growth for more than 20 years, growing from less than 60 million global connections in 1994 (wcis+, october 2017) to approximately 7.8 billion global connections as of september 30, 2017 (gsma intelligence, october 2017). as the largest technology platform in the world, mobile has changed the way we work, the way we live and the way we connect with each other. the scale and pace of innovation in mobile, especially around connectivity and computing capabilities, is also impacting industries beyond wireless. our business model and inventions have been integral to the mobile evolution, providing foundational technologies for this continued innovation and growth. extending connectivity. 3g/4g multimode mobile broadband technology has been a key growth driver of mobile, providing users with fast, reliable, always-on connectivity. as of september 30, 2017, there were approximately 4.7 billion 3g/4g connections globally (cdma-based, ofdma-based and cdma/ofdma multimode) representing nearly 60% of total mobile connections (gsma intelligence, october 2017). by 2020, global 3g/4g connections are projected to reach 6.3 billion, with approximately 83% of these connections coming from emerging regions (gsma intelligence, october 2017). 3g/4g multimode mobile broadband has also emerged as an important platform for extending the reach and potential of the internet. in 2010, the number of broadband connections using mobile technology surpassed those using fixed technologies (gsma intelligence, october 2017), making mobile networks the primary method of access to the internet for many people around the world. this is further amplified in emerging regions, where, as of september 30, 2017, 3g/4g connections are approximately six times the number of fixed internet connections (gsma intelligence and wbis, october 2017). in china, 3g/4g lte multimode services have experienced strong adoption since being launched in the fourth quarter of calendar 2013, with more than 939 million connections reported as of september 30, 2017 (gsma intelligence, october 2017). in india, mobile operators continue to expand their 4g multimode services, providing consumers with the benefits of advanced mobile broadband connectivity while creating new opportunities for device manufacturers and other members of the mobile ecosystem. 3g/4g mobile broadband may be the first and, in many cases, the only way that people in these regions access the internet. looking ahead, qualcomm and the wireless industry are actively developing and standardizing 5g technology, which is the next generation of wireless technology, expected to be commercially deployed starting in 2019. while the 5g new radio (nr) standard is still being defined, it is expected to provide a unified connectivity network for all spectrum and service types based on ofdm technology. 5g is being designed to support faster data rates, lower network latency and wider bandwidths of spectrum. incorporating many of the innovations developed for 4g, 5g is also expected to be scalable and adaptable across a variety of use cases, which include, among others: empowering new industries and services, such as autonomous vehicles and industrial applications, through ultra-reliable, ultra-low latency communication links; and connecting a significant number of things (also known as the internet of things or iot, including the connected home, smart cities devices, wearables and voice and music devices), with connectivity designed to meet ultra-low power, complexity and cost requirements. 5g is also expected to enhance mobile broadband services, including ultra-high definition (4k) video streaming and augmented and virtual reality, with multi-gigabit speeds. 5 most 5g devices are expected to include multimode support for 3g, 4g and wi-fi, enabling service continuity where 5g has yet to be deployed and simultaneous connectivity across 4g and wi-fi technologies, while also allowing mobile operators to utilize current network deployments. at the same time, 4g is expected to continue to evolve in parallel with the development of 5g and become fundamental to many of the key 5g technologies, such as support for unlicensed spectrum, gigabit lte user data rates and lte iot to meet the needs of ultra-low power, complexity and cost applications. the first phase of 5g networks are expected to support mobile broadband services for the smartphone form factor both in lower spectrum bands below 6 ghz as well as higher bands above 6 ghz, including millimeter wave (mmwave). we continue to work closely with mobile operators and infrastructure companies around the world on 5g demonstrations and trials in preparation for commercial network launches. growth in smartphones. smartphone adoption continues to expand globally, fueled by fast 3g/4g lte multimode connectivity advanced multimedia features and enhanced location awareness capabilities, among others. in 2016, approximately 1.5 billion smartphones shipped globally, representing a year-over-year increase of approximately 5%, with cumulative smartphone shipments between 2017 and 2021 projected to reach approximately 8.6 billion (gartner, september 2017). most of this growth is happening in emerging regions, where smartphones accounted for approximately 75% of handset shipments in 2016 and are expected to reach approximately 92% in 2021 (gartner, september 2017). growth in smartphones has not only been driven by the success of premium-tier devices, but also by the number of affordable handsets that are fueling shipments in emerging regions and the variety of flexible and affordable data plans being offered by mobile operators. consumer demand for new types of experiences empowered by 3g/4g lte connectivity, combined with the needs of mobile operators and device manufacturers to provide differentiated features and services, is driving continued innovation within the smartphone. we have been a leading contributor to this innovation that is happening across multiple technology dimensions, including connectivity, intelligence, camera, audio, video, sensors and security. as a result, the smartphone has become the go-to device for social networking, music, gaming, email and web browsing, among others. it is also replacing many traditional consumer electronics devices due to advanced capabilities, including digital cameras, video cameras, global positioning system (gps) units and music players, combined with an always on and connected mobile platform. transforming other industries. with its significant scale, rapid development cycles and highly integrated solutions, a number of industries beyond mobile are leveraging technology innovations found in smartphones. our inventions that contribute to the formation of advanced cellular technologies, such as 3g/4g lte connectivity, are helping transform industry segments outside of the traditional cellular industry, including automotive and iot, among others, and empowering companies to create new products and services. the proliferation of intelligent, connected things is also enabling new types of user experiences, as smartphones are able to interact with and control more of the objects around us. through the addition of embedded sensors and on-device artificial intelligence processing, connected things are able to collect data and learn about their environment, providing users with contextually relevant information and further increasing the device's utility and value. wireless technologies overview the growth in the use of wireless devices worldwide and the demand for data services and applications requires continuous innovation to further improve the user experience, support new services, increase network capacity, make use of different frequency bands and allow for dense network deployments. to meet these requirements, different wireless communications technologies continue to evolve. for nearly three decades, we have invested heavily in research and development to drive the evolution of wireless technologies, including cdma and ofdma. as a result, we have developed and acquired (and continue to develop and acquire) significant related intellectual property. this intellectual property has been incorporated into the most widely accepted and deployed cellular wireless communications technology standards, and we have licensed it to several hundred licensees, including leading wireless device and infrastructure manufacturers. cellular wireless technologies. relevant cellular wireless technologies can be grouped into the following categories. tdma-based. tdma (time division multiple access)-based technologies are characterized by their access method allowing several users to share the same frequency channel by dividing the signal into different time slots. most of these systems are classified as 2g (second generation) technology. the main examples of tdma-based technologies are gsm (deployed worldwide), is-136 (deployed in the americas) and personal digital cellular (pdc) (deployed in japan). since cdma technologies are the basis for all 3g wireless systems, gsm connections are declining. according to gsma intelligence estimates as of september 30, 2017, there were approximately 3.1 billion gsm connections worldwide, representing approximately 39% of total cellular connections, down from 46% as of september 30, 2016. the transition of 6 wireless devices from 2g to 3g/4g technologies continued around the world with 3g/4g connections up 16% year-over-year (gsma intelligence, october 2017). cdma-based. cdma-based technologies are characterized by their access method allowing several users to share the same frequency and time by allocating different orthogonal codes to individual users. most of the cdma-based technologies are classified as 3g technology. there are a number of variants of cdma-based technologies deployed around the world, in particular cdma2000, ev-do (evolution data optimized), wcdma (wideband cdma) and td-scdma (time division-synchronous cdma) (deployed exclusively in china). cdma-based technologies provide vastly improved capacity for voice and low-rate data services as compared to analog technologies and significant improvements over tdma-based technologies such as gsm. to date, these technologies have seen many revisions, and they continue to evolve. new features continue to be defined in the 3rd generation partnership project (3gpp), an industry standards development organization. cdma technologies ushered in a significant increase in broadband data services that continue to grow globally. according to gsma intelligence estimates as of september 30, 2017, there were approximately 2.4 billion cdma-based connections worldwide, representing approximately 30% of total cellular connections. ofdma-based. ofdma-based technologies are characterized by their access method allowing several users to share the same frequency band and time by allocating different subcarriers to individual users. most of the ofdma-based technologies to be deployed through 2017 are classified as 4g technology. it is expected that 5g will heavily leverage ofdm-based technologies. we continue to play a significant role in the development of lte and lte advanced, which are the predominant 4g technologies currently in use, and their evolution to lte advanced pro. lte is incorporated in 3gpp specifications starting from release 8 and uses ofdma in the downlink and single carrier fdma (sc-fdma) in the uplink. lte has two modes, fdd (frequency division duplex) and tdd (time division duplex), to support paired and unpaired spectrum, respectively, and is being developed by 3gpp. the principal benefit of lte is its ability to leverage a wide range of spectrum (bandwidths of up to 20 mhz or more through aggregation). lte is designed to seamlessly interwork with 3g through 3g/4g multimode devices. most lte devices rely on 3g for voice services across the network, as well as for ubiquitous data services outside the lte coverage area, and on 4g for data services inside the lte coverage area. lte's voice solution, volte (voice over lte), is being commercially deployed in a growing number of networks. carrier aggregation, one of the significant improvements of lte advanced, was commercially launched in june 2013 and continues to evolve to aggregate additional carriers in the uplink as well as the downlink. along with carrier aggregation, lte advanced brings many more enhancements, including advanced antenna techniques and optimization for small cells. apart from improving the performance of existing networks, these releases also bring new enhancements under the umbrella of lte advanced pro to which we have been a significant contributor, including, lte direct for proximity-based device-to-device discovery, cellular vehicle-to-everything (c-v2x) communication, improved lte broadcast, optimizations of narrowband communications designed for iot (known as emtc and nb-iot) and the ability to use lte advanced in unlicensed spectrum (lte unlicensed) as well as in emerging shared spectrum bands in various regions (such as the citizens broadband radio service or cbrs in the united states). there will be multiple options for deploying lte unlicensed for different deployment scenarios. lte-u, which relies on an lte control carrier based on 3gpp release 12, uses carrier aggregation to combine unlicensed and licensed spectrum in the downlink and has been introduced in early mobile operator deployments in the united states and evolves to licensed assisted access (laa). laa, introduced as part of 3gpp release 13, also aggregates unlicensed and licensed spectrum in both up and downlink and is being deployed globally by mobile operators. laa is a key technology for many operators with limited licensed spectrum to deliver gigabit lte speeds. multefire can operate in unlicensed spectrum without a licensed anchor control channel. there also have been ongoing efforts to make the interworking between lte and wi-fi more seamless and completely transparent to the users. further integration is achieved with lte wi-fi link aggregation (lwa), which will utilize existing and new carrier wi-fi deployments. according to gsma intelligence estimates as of september 30, 2017, there were approximately 2.3 billion global lte connections worldwide, representing approximately 30% of total cellular connections. according to the global mobile suppliers association (gsa), as of september 30, 2017, more than 810 wireless operators have commercially deployed or started testing lte with 644 commercially launched in 200 countries. in addition, lte advanced standards featuring carrier aggregation have begun to be deployed, with 212 operators having commercially launched lte advanced networks in 105 countries (gsa, october 2017). 7 as we look forward, the wireless industry is actively building the next generation of cellular technologies under the name 5g in 3gpp. while 5g is still being defined, our inventions that serve as foundational technologies for 3g and 4g are expected to serve as the basis for 5g wireless technologies. 5g is expected to transform the role of wireless technologies and incorporate advancements on 3g/4g features available today, including further enhanced mobile broadband services, device-to-device capabilities, use of all different types of spectrum (including licensed, unlicensed and shared spectrum) and connectivity of a significant number of things. 5g is also expected to include operation in emerging higher frequency bands, such as those in the millimeter wave range to significantly increase the data rate offered to users. furthermore, 5g is expected to offer techniques that will allow cellular networks to expand into new vertical product segments, such as enabling automation-based platforms for industrial companies (known as industrial iot), and define a radio link with much higher levels of reliability for control of vehicles and machines. this development, which builds on the various 3g and 4g features addressing iot, will further sustain the trend of enabling cellular connectivity to non-handset categories of devices. we continue to play a significant role in driving 5g from standardization to commercialization, including contributing to 3gpp standardization activities to define the 5g new radio (nr) and next generation core (ngc) standard and collaborating with industry participants on 5g demonstrations and trials to prepare for commercial network launches. we continue to enhance and track the 3gpp standard in our 5g nr prototypes for spectrum below 6ghz and mmwave spectrum, as well as for shared and unlicensed spectrum. these prototypes will be used for interoperability device testing starting in late 2017 with infrastructure partners as well as for early trial activities with mobile operators. other (non-cellular) wireless technologies. there are other, non-cellular wireless technologies that have also been broadly adopted. wireless local area networks. wireless local area networks (wlan), such as wi-fi, link two or more nearby devices wirelessly and usually provide connectivity through an access point. wi-fi systems are based on standards developed by the institute of electrical and electronics engineers (ieee) in the 802.11 family of standards. 802.11ax, the latest standard, adds advanced features such as downlink and uplink ofdma and uplink multiple user multiple in/multiple out (ul mu mimo) to the 802.11 baseline standard. this technology primarily targets broadband connectivity for mobile devices, tablets, laptops and other consumer electronics devices using 2.4 ghz and 5 ghz spectrum. for 60ghz mmwave technology, 802.11ay adds wider channel bandwidth and the use of mimo to the existing 802.11ad (also known as gigabit wi-fi or wigig) standard. 802.11ah was finalized in early 2017 and targets sub-1 ghz spectrum and is expected to be a solution for connected home applications that require long battery life. we played a leading role in the development of 802.11ac, 802.11ax, 802.11ay, 802.11ah and 802.11p, and we are actively involved in innovative programs developed in the context of the wi-fi alliance. bluetooth. bluetooth is a wireless personal area network that provides wireless connectivity between devices over short distances ranging from a few centimeters to a few hundred meters. bluetooth technology provides wireless connectivity to a wide range of fixed or mobile consumer electronics devices. bluetooth functionalities are standardized by the bluetooth special interest group in various versions of the specification (from 1.0 to 5.0), which include different functionalities, such as enhanced data rate, low energy and mesh technologies. in august 2015, we acquired csr plc, a leading contributor to bluetooth evolution in the areas of mobile devices, hid (human interface device), a/v (audio/video) and mesh technologies. location positioning technologies. location positioning technologies have evolved rapidly in the industry over the past few years in order to deliver an enhanced location experience. we were a key developer of the assisted-gps (a-gps) positioning technology used in most cellular handsets today. for uses requiring the best accuracy for e911 services and navigational based services, a-gps provided a leading-edge solution. the industry has now evolved to support additional inputs for improving the location experience. our products and intellectual property now support multiple constellations, including: gps, glonass, galileo and beidou; terrestrial-based positioning using wwan (wireless wide area network) and wi-fi-based inputs; wi-fi rssi (received signal strength indication) and rtt (round-trip time) signals for indoor location; and third-party sensors combined with gnss (global navigation satellite system) measurements to provide interim support for location-based services in rural areas and indoors where other signal inputs may not be available. other significant technologies used in cellular and certain consumer electronic devices and networks we have played a leading role in developing and/or acquired many of the other technologies used across the wireless system, such as cellular and certain consumer electronic devices and not just what is embodied in the chipsets, and networks, including: graphics and display processing functionality; video coding based on the hevc (high efficiency video codec) standard, which is being deployed to support 4k video and immersive media content; audio coding, including evs (enhanced voice services) and mpeg-h 3d audio; 8 the latest version of 3gpp's codec for multimedia use and for voice/speech use, which is being deployed commercially; multimedia transport, including mpeg-dash (dynamic adaptive streaming over http) enabling advanced multimedia experiences; camera and camcorder functions; operating system and user interface features; machine learning platforms; augmented reality (ar) and virtual reality (vr) features enabling new types of user experiences; security and content protection systems for enhanced device security without compromising the user experience; volatile (lp-ddr2, 3, 4) and non-volatile (emmc) memory and related controllers; power management systems for improved battery life and device charging; and rffe (radio frequency front-end) system products for improved signal performance and reduced power consumption, while simplifying the design for manufacturers to develop lte multimode, multiband devices. acquisitions rf360 holdings. on february 3, 2017, we completed the formation of a joint venture with tdk corporation (tdk), under the name rf360 holdings singapore pte. ltd. (rf360 holdings), to enable delivery of radio frequency front-end (rffe) modules and radio frequency (rf) filters into fully integrated products for mobile devices and internet of things (iot) applications, among others. the joint venture is owned 51% by qualcomm global trading pte. ltd. (qualcomm global trading), a singapore corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of ours, and 49% by epcos ag (epcos), a german wholly-owned subsidiary of tdk. certain intellectual property, patents and filter and module design and manufacturing assets were carved out of existing tdk businesses and are owned by the joint venture, and certain assets were acquired directly by affiliates of ours. qualcomm global trading has the option to acquire (and epcos has an option to sell) epcos's interest in the joint venture for $1.15 billion 30 months after the closing date. the total purchase price was $3.1 billion. rf360 holdings, which is included in our qct segment, is a singapore corporation with research and development and manufacturing and/or sales locations in the united states, europe and asia and its headquarters in munich, germany. nxp semiconductors n.v. on october 27, 2016 , we announced a definitive agreement under which qualcomm river holdings, b.v. (qualcomm river holdings), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of qualcomm incorporated, will acquire nxp semiconductors n.v. (nxp). pursuant to the definitive agreement, qualcomm river holdings has commenced a tender offer to acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of nxp for $110 per share in cash, for estimated total cash consideration to be paid to nxp's shareholders of $38 billion . nxp is a leader in high-performance, mixed-signal semiconductor electronics in automotive, broad-based microcontrollers, secure identification, network processing and rf power products. the transaction is subject to receipt of regulatory approvals in various jurisdictions and other closing conditions, including the tender of at least 80% of the issued and outstanding common shares of nxp in the offer (provided that the minimum tender threshold may be reduced to a percentage not less than 70% with the prior written consent of nxp). while we continue to work to close by the end of calendar 2017, the transaction may close in early 2018. at an extraordinary general meeting of nxp's shareholders held on january 27, 2017, nxp's shareholders approved certain matters relating to the transaction, including the appointment of designees of qualcomm river holdings to nxp's board of directors (effective upon the closing of the transaction) and certain transactions that are intended to be consummated after the completion of the tender offer. in may 2017, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $11.0 billion of unsecured floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities, of which a portion will be used to fund the purchase price and other related transactions. in addition, we have secured $4.0 billion in committed financing through a term loan facility, which is expected to be drawn on at the close of the nxp transaction (see notes to consolidated financial statements, note 6. debt. ). the remaining amount will be funded with cash held by our foreign entities. qualcomm river holdings and nxp may terminate the definitive agreement under certain circumstances. if the definitive agreement is terminated by nxp in certain circumstances, nxp will be required to pay qualcomm river holdings a termination fee of $1.25 billion . if the definitive agreement is terminated by qualcomm river holdings under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain the required regulatory approvals or the failure of nxp to complete certain pre-closing reorganization steps in all material respects, qualcomm river holdings will be required to pay nxp a termination fee of $2.0 billion . 9 operating segments we have three reportable segments. we conduct business primarily through qct (qualcomm cdma technologies) and qtl (qualcomm technology licensing), and qsi (qualcomm strategic initiatives) makes strategic investments. revenues in fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 for our reportable segments were as follows (in millions, except percentage data): 2017 2016 2015 qct $ 16,479 $ 15,409 $ 17,154 as a percent of total 74 % 65 % 68 % qtl $ 6,445 $ 7,664 $ 7,947 as a percent of total 29 % 33 % 31 % qsi $ 113 $ 47 $ 4 as a percent of total 1 % qct segment. qct is a leading developer and supplier of integrated circuits and system software based on cdma, ofdma and other technologies for use in wireless voice and data communications, networking, application processing, multimedia and global positioning system products. qct's integrated circuit products are sold and its system software is licensed to manufacturers that use our products in mobile devices, tablets, laptops, data modules, handheld wireless computers and gaming devices, access points and routers, broadband gateway equipment, data cards and infrastructure equipment, other consumer electronics and automotive telematics and infotainment systems. our mobile station modem (msm) integrated circuits, which include the mobile data modem, qualcomm single chip and qualcomm snapdragon mobile platforms and processors and lte modems, perform the core baseband modem functionality in wireless devices providing voice and data communications, as well as multimedia applications and global positioning functions. in addition, our snapdragon mobile platforms and processors provide advanced application and graphics processing capabilities. because of our experience in designing and developing cdma- and ofdma-based products, we design both the baseband integrated circuit and the supporting system, including the rf (radio frequency), pm (power management) and wireless connectivity integrated circuits. this approach enables us to optimize the performance of the wireless device with improved product features and integration with the network system. qct's system software helps enable the other device components to interface with the integrated circuit products and is the foundation software enabling manufacturers to develop devices utilizing the functionality within the integrated circuits. we also provide support, including reference designs and tools, to assist our customers in reducing the time required to design their products and bring their products to market. qct offers a broad portfolio of products, including both wireless device and infrastructure integrated circuits, in support of cdma2000 1x and 1xev-do, as well as the ev-do revision a/b evolutions of cdma 2000 technology. leveraging our expertise in cdma, we also develop and offer integrated circuits supporting the wcdma version of 3g for manufacturers of wireless devices. device manufacturers have widely adopted our wcdma products that support gsm/gprs, wcdma, hsdpa (high-speed downlink packet access), hsupa (high-speed uplink packet access) and hspa+ for their devices. qct also sells multimode products for the lte standard, which are designed to support seamless backward compatibility to existing 3g technologies. our integrated circuit products are included in a broad range of devices, from low-tier, entry-level devices for emerging regions, which may use our qualcomm reference design (qrd) products, to premium-tier devices. in fiscal 2017 , qct shipped approximately 804 million msm integrated circuits for wireless devices worldwide, compared to approximately 842 million and 932 million in fiscal 2016 and 2015 , respectively. our modems are built to work with increasingly complex networks. they support the latest communication technologies and adapt to network conditions and user needs in real time to enable delivery of faster, smoother data and voice connections. our 3g/4g modem roadmap delivers the latest network technologies across multiple product tiers and devices. this roadmap is the result of our years of research into emerging network standards and the development of chipsets that take advantage of these new standards, while maintaining backward compatibility with existing standards. each snapdragon mobile platform and processor is a highly integrated, mobile optimized system on a chip incorporating our advanced technologies, including a snapdragon modem for fast reliable mobile broadband connectivity, a high performance central processing unit (cpu), digital signal processor (dsp), graphics processing unit (gpu), image signal processor, multimedia subsystems, including high fidelity audio, high-definition video and advanced imaging capabilities, our mobile security technology, and accurate location positioning engines. our cpu cores are designed to deliver high levels of compute performance at low power, allowing manufacturers to design powerful, slim and power-efficient devices. our qualcomm adreno gpus are also designed to deliver high quality graphics performance for visually rich 3d gaming and 10 user interfaces. the heterogeneous compute architecture of our snapdragon mobile platforms and processors is designed to help ensure that the cpu, dsp and gpu work efficiently together, each being utilized only when needed, which enhances the processing capacity, speed and efficiency of our snapdragon mobile platforms and processors and the battery life of devices using our processors. our portfolio of rf products includes qfe (qualcomm front end) radio frequency front-end (rffe) components that are designed to simplify the rf design for lte multimode, multiband mobile devices, reduce power consumption and improve radio performance. through our rf360 holdings joint venture, qct offers an expanded portfolio of rffe products for mobile devices and iot applications. our technologies provide comprehensive rffe product offerings with system level performance from the modem and transceiver to the antenna tuner that include power tracking, tuning systems, switching, multimode-multiband power amplification, low noise amplifiers, complex transmit and receive modules, in addition to discrete filtering applications across cellular, infrastructure and automotive markets. our wireless products also consist of integrated circuits and system software for wlan, bluetooth, bluetooth smart, frequency modulation (fm) and near field communications, as well as technologies that support location data and services, including gps, glonass and beidou. our wlan, bluetooth and fm products have been integrated with the snapdragon mobile platforms and processors to provide additional connectivity for mobile devices, tablets, laptops, consumer electronics and automotive telematics and infotainment systems. qct also offers standalone wlan, bluetooth, bluetooth smart, applications processor and ethernet products for mobile devices, consumer electronics, computers, iot applications, other connected devices and automotive telematics and infotainment systems. our networking products include wlan, powerline and ethernet chips, network processors and software. these products help enable home and business networks to support the growing number of connected devices, digital media, data services and other smart home applications. qct primarily utilizes a fabless production model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. integrated circuits are die cut from silicon wafers that have completed the package assembly and test manufacturing processes. the semiconductor package supports the electrical contacts that connect the integrated circuit to a circuit board. die cut from silicon wafers are the essential components of all of our integrated circuits and a significant portion of the total integrated circuit cost. we employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing models to purchase our integrated circuits. under the turnkey model, our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. under the two-stage manufacturing model, we purchase die in singular or wafer form from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-party suppliers for manufacturing services such as wafer bump, probe, assembly and the majority of our final test requirements. rf360 holdings uses certain internal fabrication facilities to manufacture rffe modules and rf filter acoustic products, and its manufacturing operations consist of front-end and back-end processes. the front-end processes primarily take place at manufacturing facilities located in germany and singapore and involve the imprinting of substrate silicon wafers with the circuitry required for semiconductors to function (also known as wafer fabrication). the back-end processes involve the assembly, packaging and test of semiconductors to prepare rffe modules and rf filter acoustic products for distribution. the back-end manufacturing facilities are located in china, germany and singapore. other than rf360 holdings, we primarily rely on independent third-party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits based primarily on our proprietary designs and test programs. our suppliers also are responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. the primary foundry suppliers for our various digital, analog/mixed-signal, rf and pm integrated circuits are global foundries inc., samsung electronics co. ltd., semiconductor manufacturing international corporation, taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company and united microelectronics corporation. the primary semiconductor assembly and test suppliers are advanced semiconductor engineering, amkor technology, siliconware precision industries and statschippac. the majority of our foundry and semiconductor assembly and test suppliers are located in the asia-pacific region. qct's sales are primarily made through standard purchase orders for delivery of products. qct generally allows customers to reschedule delivery dates within a defined time frame and to cancel orders prior to shipment with or without payment of a penalty, depending on when the order is canceled. the industry in which qct operates is intensely competitive. qct competes worldwide with a number of united states and international designers and manufacturers of semiconductors. as a result of global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological changes, device manufacturer concentrations and the potential for further industry consolidation, we anticipate the industry to remain very competitive. we believe that the principal competitive factors for our products include performance, level of integration, quality, compliance with industry standards, price, time-to-market, system cost, design and engineering capabilities, new product innovation and customer support. qct also competes in both single- and multi-mode environments against alternative communications technologies including, but not limited to, gsm/gprs/edge and tdma. further, qct is expanding its product offerings to 11 adjacent industry segments outside traditional cellular industries, including automotive, which is subject to long design-in time frames, long product life cycles and a high degree of regulatory and safety requirements, necessitating suppliers to the industry to comply with stringent qualification processes, very low defect rates and high reliability standards, all of which results in a significant barrier to entry and may result in increased costs. qct's current competitors include, but are not limited to, companies such as broadcom limited, cirrus logic, cypress semiconductor corporation, hisilicon technologies, intel, marvell technology, maxim integrated products, mediatek, microchip technology inc., murata manufacturing co., ltd., nordic semiconductor, nvidia, qorvo inc., realtek semiconductor, renesas electronics corporation, samsung electronics, sequans communications s.a., skyworks solutions inc., sony corporation and spreadtrum communications (which is controlled by tsinghua unigroup). qct also faces competition from products internally developed by our customers, including some of our largest customers, and from some early-stage companies. our competitors devote significant amounts of their financial, technical and other resources to develop and market competitive products and, in some cases, to develop and adopt competitive digital communication or signal processing technologies, and those efforts may materially and adversely affect us. although we have attained a significant position in the industry, many of our current and potential competitors may have advantages over us that include, among others: motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to utilize their own internally-developed integrated circuit products, to use our competitors' integrated circuit products and/or sell such products to others, including by bundling with other products, or to choose alternative technologies; lower cost structures and/or a willingness and ability to accept lower prices and lower or negative margins for their products, particularly in china; foreign government support of other technologies or competitors; better known brand names; ownership and control of manufacturing facilities and greater expertise in manufacturing processes; more extensive relationships with local distribution companies and original equipment manufacturers in certain geographic regions (such as china) and/or experience in adjacent industry segments outside traditional cellular industries (such as automotive and iot); and/or a more established presence in certain regions. qtl segment . qtl grants licenses or otherwise provides rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which, among other rights, includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products, including, without limitation, products implementing cdma2000, wcdma, cdma tdd and/or lte standards and their derivatives. we have historically licensed our cellular standard-essential patents together with other qualcomm patents that may be useful to such licensed products because licensees typically have desired to obtain the commercial benefits of receiving such broad patent rights from us. however, we also have licensed only our cellular standard-essential patents to certain licensees who have requested such licenses. in addition, our practice in china since 2015 is to offer licenses to our 3g and 4g standard-essential chinese patents for devices sold for use in china separately from licenses to our other patents. our licensees manufacture wireless products including mobile devices (also known as subscriber units, which include handsets), other consumer devices (e.g., tablets and laptops), machine-to-machine devices (e.g., telematics devices, meter reading devices), plug-in end user data modem cards, certain embedded modules for incorporation into end user products, infrastructure equipment required to establish and operate a network and equipment to test networks and subscriber units. since our founding in 1985, we have focused heavily on technology development and innovation. these efforts have resulted in a leading intellectual property portfolio related to, among other things, wireless technology. we have an extensive portfolio of united states and foreign patents, and we continue to pursue patent applications around the world. our patents have broad coverage in many countries, including brazil, china, india, japan, south korea, taiwan, the united states and countries in europe and elsewhere. a substantial portion of our patents and patent applications relate to digital wireless communications technologies, including patents that are essential or may be important to the commercial implementation of cdma2000, wcdma (umts), td-scdma, td-cdma (time division cdma) and ofdma/lte products. our patent portfolio is the most widely and extensively licensed in the industry, with several hundred licensees. additionally, we have a substantial patent portfolio related to key technologies used in communications and other devices and/or related services, some of which were developed in industry standards development bodies. these include certain video codec, audio codec, wlan, memory interfaces, wireless power, gps and positioning, broadcast and streaming protocols, and short range communication functionalities, including nfc and bluetooth. our patents cover a wide range of technologies across the entire wireless system, including the device (handsets and other wireless devices) and not just what is embodied in the chipsets. over the years, a number of companies have challenged our patent position, but companies in the mobile communications industry generally recognize that any company seeking to develop, manufacture and/or sell subscriber units or infrastructure equipment that use cdma-based and/or ofdma-based technologies will require a license or other rights to use our patents. we have licensed or otherwise provided rights to use our patents to hundreds of companies on industry-accepted terms. unlike some other companies in our industry that hold back certain key technologies, we offer companies substantially our entire patent portfolio for use in cellular subscriber devices and cell site infrastructure equipment. our strategy to make our 12 patented technologies broadly available has been a catalyst for industry growth, helping to enable a wide range of companies offering a broad array of wireless products and features while increasing the capabilities of and/or driving down average and low-end selling prices for 3g handsets and other wireless devices. by licensing or otherwise providing rights to use our patents to a wide range of equipment manufacturers, encouraging innovative applications, supporting equipment manufacturers with integrated chipset and software products and focusing on improving the efficiency of the airlink for wireless operators, we have helped 3g cdma evolve and grow and reduced device pricing, all at a faster pace than the 2g (second generation) technologies such as gsm that preceded it. upon the initial deployment of ofdma-based networks, the products implementing such technologies generally have been multimode and implement cdma-based technologies. the licenses granted under our existing cdma license agreements generally cover multimode cdma/ofdma (3g/4g) devices, and our licensees are obligated to pay royalties under their cdma license agreements for such devices. further, the majority of the leading handset and other wireless device companies (including huawei, lg, microsoft, oppo, samsung, sony, vivo, xiaomi and zte) have royalty-bearing licenses under our patent portfolio for use in lte or other ofdma-based products that do not implement any cdma-based standards. standards bodies have been informed that we hold patents that might be essential for all 3g standards that are based on cdma. we have committed to such standards bodies that we will offer to license our essential patents for these cdma standards consistent with our commitments to those bodies. we have also informed standards bodies that we hold patents and pending patent applications that are potentially essential for certain standards that are based on ofdm/ofdma technology (e.g., lte, including fdd and tdd versions) and have committed to offer to license our essential patents for these ofdma standards consistent with our commitments to those bodies. we have made similar commitments with respect to certain other technologies implemented in industry standards. qtl licensing revenues include license fees and royalties based on sales by licensees of products incorporating or using our intellectual property. license fees are fixed amounts paid in one or more installments. license fees are recognized over the estimated period of benefit of the license to the licensee, typically 5 to 15 years. royalties are generally based upon a percentage of the wholesale (i.e., licensee's) selling price of complete licensed products, net of certain permissible deductions (including transportation, insurance, packing costs and other items). we broadly provide per unit running royalty caps that apply to certain categories of complete wireless devices, namely smartphones, tablets and laptops, which effectively provide for a maximum running royalty amount per device (i.e., the royalty caps limit the running royalties due on a per unit basis). qtl recognizes royalty revenues based on royalties reported by licensees and when other revenue recognition criteria are met. licensees, however, do not report and pay royalties owed for sales in any given quarter until after the conclusion of that quarter, which is generally the following quarter. revenues generated from royalties are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations. the vast majority of qtl revenues have been generated through our licensees' sales of cdma2000-based, wcdma-based and lte-based products (including 3g and 4g multi-mode devices), such as feature phones and smartphones. we have invested and continue to invest in both the acquisition and development of ofdma technology and intellectual property and have generated the industry leading patent portfolio applicable to lte, lte advanced and lte advanced pro. additionally, we have invested and continue to invest in the development of 5g, which while still being defined, is expected to heavily leverage ofdma-based technologies. nevertheless, we face competition in the development of intellectual property for future generations of digital wireless communications technologies and services. separate and apart from licensing manufacturers of wireless devices and network equipment, we have entered into certain arrangements with competitors of our qct segment, such as broadcom limited. a principal purpose of these arrangements is to provide our qct segment and the counterparties certain freedom of operation with respect to each party's integrated circuits business. in every case, these agreements expressly reserve the right for qtl to seek royalties from the customers of such integrated circuit suppliers with respect to such suppliers' customers' sales of cdma-, wcdma- and ofdma-based wireless devices into which such suppliers' integrated circuits are incorporated. our license agreements also may provide us with rights to use certain of our licensees' technology and intellectual property to manufacture and sell certain components (e.g., application-specific integrated circuits) and related software, subscriber units and/or infrastructure equipment. we are currently subject to various governmental investigations and private legal proceedings challenging our patent licensing practices, which may require us to change our patent licensing practices as described more fully in this annual report in part i, item 1a. risk factors under the heading if we are required to change our patent licensing practices due to governmental investigations and/or private legal proceedings challenging those practices, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted and in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. 13 qsi segment. qsi makes strategic investments that are focused on opening new or expanding opportunities for our technologies and supporting the design and introduction of new products and services (or enhancing existing products or services) for voice and data communications and new industry segments. many of these strategic investments are in early-stage companies in a variety of industries, including, but not limited to, automotive, iot, mobile, data center and healthcare. investments primarily include non-marketable equity instruments, which generally are recorded using the cost method or the equity method, and convertible debt instruments, which are recorded at fair value. in addition, qsi segment results include revenues and related costs associated with license and development contracts with one of our equity method investees. as part of our strategic investment activities, we intend to pursue various exit strategies for each of our qsi investments in the foreseeable future. other businesses. nonreportable segments include our mobile health, data center, small cell and other wireless technology and service initiatives. our nonreportable segments develop and sell products and services that include, but are not limited to: products and services for mobile health; license of chipset technology and products and services for use in data centers; products designed for implementation of small cells to address the challenge of meeting the increased demand for data; development, other services and related products to u.s. government agencies and their contractors; and software products and content and push-to-talk enablement services to wireless operators. additional information regarding our operating segments is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 8. segment information. information regarding seasonality is provided in this annual report in part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the our business and operating segments section under the heading seasonality. strategic realignment plan in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, we announced a strategic realignment plan designed to improve execution, enhance financial performance and drive profitable growth as we worked to create sustainable long-term value for stockholders. as part of this strategic realignment plan, among other actions, we implemented a cost reduction plan, which included a series of targeted reductions across our businesses, particularly in qct, and a reduction to annual share-based compensation grants. the cost reduction initiatives were achieved by the end of fiscal 2016 and other activities under the plan were completed by the end of fiscal 2017. additional information regarding our strategic realignment plan is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 10. strategic realignment plan. corporate structure we operate our businesses through our parent company, qualcomm incorporated, and multiple direct and indirect subsidiaries. we have developed our corporate structure in order to address various legal, regulatory, tax, contractual compliance, operations and other matters. substantially all of our products and services businesses, including qct, and substantially all of our engineering, research and development functions, are operated by qualcomm technologies, inc. (qti), a wholly-owned subsidiary of qualcomm incorporated, and qti's subsidiaries. qtl is operated by qualcomm incorporated, which owns the vast majority of our patent portfolio. neither qti nor any of its subsidiaries has any right, power or authority to grant any licenses or other rights under or to any patents owned by qualcomm incorporated. revenue concentrations, significant customers and geographical information revenues in fiscal 2017 were negatively impacted by the actions of apple inc. and hon hai precision industry co., ltd./foxconn, its affiliates and other suppliers to apple, as well as the previously disclosed dispute with another licensee, who underpaid royalties due in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 and did not report or pay royalties due in the third or fourth quarter of fiscal 2017. a small number of customers/licensees historically have accounted for a significant portion of our consolidated revenues. in fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , revenues from suppliers to apple inc. and from samsung electronics each comprised more than 10% of consolidated revenues. combined revenues from guangdong oppo mobile telecommunications corp. ltd. and vivo communication technology co., ltd., and their respective affiliates, also comprised more than 10% of consolidated revenues in fiscal 2017 . consolidated revenues from international customers and licensees as a percentage of total revenues were 98% , 98% and 99% in fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. during fiscal 2017 , 65% and 16% of our revenues were from customers and licensees based in china (including hong kong) and south korea, respectively, compared to 57% and 17% during fiscal 2016 , respectively, and 53% and 16% during fiscal 2015 , respectively. we report revenues from external customers by country based on the location to which our products or services are delivered, which for qct is generally the country in which our customers manufacture their products, or for licensing revenues, the invoiced addresses of our licensees. as a result, the revenues by country presented herein are not necessarily indicative of either the country in which the devices 14 containing our products and/or intellectual property are ultimately sold to consumers or the country in which the companies that sell the devices are headquartered. for example, china revenues could include revenues related to shipments of integrated circuits to a company that is headquartered in south korea but that manufactures devices in china, which devices are then sold to consumers in europe and/or the united states. additional geographic information is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 8. segment information. research and development the communications industry is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions, requiring a continuous effort to enhance existing products and technologies and to develop new products and technologies. we have significant engineering resources, including engineers with substantial expertise in cdma, ofdma and a broad range of other technologies. using these engineering resources, we expect to continue to invest in research and development in a variety of ways in an effort to extend the demand for our products, including continuing the development of cdma, ofdma and other technologies, developing alternative technologies for certain specialized applications, participating in the formulation of new voice and data communication standards and technologies, assisting in deploying digital voice and data communications networks around the world and leveraging our existing technology in new and expanded product areas, such as rffe, and adjacent industry segments outside of traditional cellular industries, such as automotive, iot and networking. our research and development team has a demonstrated track record of innovation in voice and data communication technologies and application processor technology, among others. our research and development expenditures in fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 totaled approximately $5.5 billion , $5.2 billion and $5.5 billion , respectively. we continue to invest significant resources towards advancements in 4g ofdma-based technologies (including lte) and 5g-based technologies. we also engage in acquisitions and other transactions, such as joint ventures, to meet certain technology needs, to obtain development resources or open or expand opportunities for our technologies and supporting the design and introduction of new products and services (or enhancing existing products and services) for voice and data communications and new industry segments outside of the traditional cellular industry. recent transactions include our acquisition of csr plc, our rf360 holdings joint venture with tdk corporation and our proposed acquisition of nxp. we make investments to provide our integrated circuit customers with chipsets designed on leading-edge technology nodes that combine multiple technologies for use in consumer devices (e.g., smartphones, tablets and laptops), consumer electronics and other products (e.g., access points and routers, data cards and infrastructure equipment). in addition to 3g and 4g lte technologies, our chipsets support other wireless and wired connectivity technologies, including wlan, bluetooth, ethernet, gps, glonass, beidou and powerline communication. our integrated chipsets often include multiple technologies, including advanced multimode modems, application processors and graphics engines, as well as the tools to connect these diverse technologies. we continue to support android, windows and other mobile client software environments in our chipsets. we develop on our own, and with our partners, innovations that are integrated into our product portfolio to further expand the opportunity for wireless communications and enhance the value of our products and services. these innovations are expected to enable our customers to improve the performance or value of their existing services, offer these services more affordably and introduce revenue-generating broadband data services ahead of their competition. we have research and development centers in various locations throughout the world that support our global development activities and ongoing efforts to develop and/or advance 4g ofdma, 5g and a broad range of other technologies. we continue to use our substantial engineering resources and expertise to develop new technologies, applications and services and make them available to licensees to help grow the communications industry and generate new or expanded licensing opportunities. we also make investments in opportunities that leverage our existing technical and business expertise to deploy new and expanded product areas, such as rffe, and enter into adjacent industry segments, such as products for automotive, iot (including the connected home, smart cities, wearables, voice and music and robotics), data center, networking, computing and machine learning, among others. sales and marketing sales and marketing activities of our operating segments are discussed under operating segments. other marketing activities include public relations, advertising, digital marketing and social media, participation in technical conferences and trade shows, development of business cases and white papers, competitive analyses, industry intelligence and other marketing programs, such as marketing development funds with our customers. our corporate marketing department provides company information on our internet site and through other channels regarding our products, strategies and technology to industry analysts and media. 15 competition competition faced by our operating segments is discussed under operating segments. competition in the communications industry throughout the world continues to increase at a rapid pace as consumers, businesses and governments realize the potential of wireless communications products and services. we have facilitated competition in the wireless communications industry by licensing our technologies to a large number of manufacturers. although we have attained a significant position in the traditional cellular industry, many of our current and potential competitors may have advantages over us that include, among others: motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to utilize their own internally-developed integrated circuit products, to use our competitors' integrated circuit products and/or sell such products to others, including by bundling with other products, or to choose alternative technologies; lower cost structures and/or a willingness and ability to accept lower prices and lower or negative margins for their products, particularly in china; foreign government support of other technologies or competitors; better known brand names; ownership and control of manufacturing facilities and greater expertise in manufacturing processes; more extensive relationships with local distribution companies and original equipment manufacturers in certain geographic regions (such as china) and/or experience in adjacent industry segments outside traditional cellular industries (such as automotive and iot); and/or a more established presence in certain regions. these relationships may affect customers' decisions to purchase products or license technology from us. accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market positions to our detriment. we expect competition to increase as our current competitors expand their product offerings and introduce new technologies and services in the future and as additional companies compete with our products or services based on 3g, 4g or other technologies. although we intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing new products and technologies and improving existing products and technologies, our competitors may introduce alternative products, services or technologies that threaten our business. it is also possible that the prices we charge for our products and services may continue to decline as competition continues to intensify. see also the risk factor entitled our industry is subject to competition in an environment of rapid technological change that could result in decreased demand and/or declining average selling prices for our products and/or those of our customers and/or licensees. corporate responsibility and sustainability we strive to better our local and global communities through ethical business practices, socially empowering technology applications, educational and environmental programs and employee diversity and volunteerism. our governance. we aim to demonstrate accountability, transparency, integrity and ethical business practices throughout our operations and interactions with our stakeholders. our products. we strive to meet or exceed industry standards for product responsibility and supplier management. our workplace. we endeavor to provide a safe and healthy work environment where diversity is embraced and various opportunities for training, growth and advancement are encouraged for all employees. our community. we have strategic relationships with a wide range of local organizations and programs that develop and strengthen communities worldwide. our environment. we aim to expand our operations while minimizing our carbon footprint, conserving water and reducing waste. qualcomm wireless reach . we invest in strategic programs that foster entrepreneurship, aid in public safety, enhance delivery of health care, enrich teaching and learning and improve environmental sustainability through the use of advanced wireless technologies. employees at september 24, 2017 , we employed approximately 33,800 full-time, part-time and temporary employees. during fiscal 2017 , the number of employees increased by approximately 3,300 primarily due to increases in engineering resources and the formation of our consolidated rf360 holdings joint venture with tdk. available information our internet address is www.qualcomm.com. there we make available, free of charge, our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). we also make available on our internet site public financial information for which a report is not required to be filed with or furnished to the sec. our sec reports and other financial information can be accessed through the investor relations section 16 of our internet site. the information found on our internet site is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the sec. executive officers our executive officers (and their ages at september 24, 2017 ) are as follows: paul e. jacobs, age 54, has served as executive chairman since march 2014, as chairman of the board of directors since march 2009 and as a director since june 2005. he served as chief executive officer from july 2005 to march 2014. in addition, he served as an executive vice president from february 2000 to june 2005. dr. jacobs joined qualcomm as an intern in 1986 and full-time in 1990 as an engineer and throughout his tenure at qualcomm has held several other leadership positions. dr. jacobs holds a b.s. degree in electrical engineering and computer science, an m.s. degree in electrical engineering and a ph.d. degree in electrical engineering and computer science from the university of california, berkeley. steve mollenkopf, age 48, has served as chief executive officer since march 2014 and as a director since december 2013. he served as chief executive officer-elect and president from december 2013 to march 2014 and as president and chief operating officer from november 2011 to december 2013. in addition, he served as executive vice president and group president from september 2010 to november 2011 and as executive vice president and president, qct from august 2008 to september 2010. mr. mollenkopf joined qualcomm in 1994 as an engineer and throughout his tenure at qualcomm has held several other technical and leadership positions. mr. mollenkopf has been a director of general electric company since november 2016. mr. mollenkopf holds a b.s. degree in electrical engineering from virginia tech and an m.s. degree in electrical engineering from the university of michigan. derek k. aberle, age 47, has served as president since march 2014. he served as executive vice president and group president from november 2011 to march 2014 and as executive vice president and president, qtl from september 2008 to november 2011. mr. aberle joined qualcomm in december 2000 as an attorney and throughout his tenure at qualcomm has held several other legal and leadership positions. mr. aberle holds a b.a. degree in business economics from the university of california, santa barbara and a j.d. degree from the university of san diego. mr. aberle will be leaving qualcomm effective january 4, 2018. cristiano r. amon, age 47, has served as executive vice president, qualcomm technologies, inc. (qti, a subsidiary of qualcomm incorporated) and president, qualcomm cdma technologies (qct) since november 2015. he served as executive vice president, qti and co-president, qct from october 2012 to november 2015, senior vice president, qualcomm incorporated and co-president, qct from june 2012 to october 2012 and as senior vice president, qct product management from october 2007 to june 2012. mr. amon joined qualcomm in 1995 as an engineer and throughout his tenure at qualcomm held several other technical and leadership positions. mr. amon holds a b.s. degree in electrical engineering from unicamp, the state university of campinas, brazil. george s. davis, age 59, has served as executive vice president and chief financial officer since march 2013. mr. davis is responsible for leading finance, information technology and investor relations. prior to joining qualcomm, mr. davis was chief financial officer of applied materials, inc., a provider of manufacturing equipment, services and software to the semiconductor, flat panel display, solar photovoltaic and related industries, from november 2006 to march 2013. mr. davis held several other leadership positions at applied materials from november 1999 to november 2006. prior to joining applied materials, mr. davis served 19 years with atlantic richfield company in a number of finance and other corporate positions. mr. davis holds a b.a. degree in economics and political science from claremont mckenna college and an m.b.a. degree from the university of california, los angeles. matthew s. grob, age 51, has served as executive vice president, qualcomm technologies, inc. (qti) since march 2017. he served as executive vice president, qti and chief technology officer from october 2012 to march 2017. he served as executive vice president, qualcomm incorporated and chief technology officer from july 2011 to october 2012. mr. grob joined qualcomm in august 1991 as an engineer and throughout his tenure at qualcomm held several other technical and leadership positions. mr. grob holds a b.s. degree in electrical engineering from bradley university and an m.s. degree in electrical engineering from stanford university. brian t. modoff, age 58, has served as executive vice president, strategy and mergers &amp; acquisitions since october 2015. prior to joining qualcomm, mr. modoff was a managing director in equity research at deutsche bank securities inc. (deutsche bank), a provider of financial services, from march 1999 to october 2015. prior to joining deutsche bank, mr. modoff was a research analyst at several financial institutions from november 1993 to march 1999. mr. modoff holds a b.a. degree in economics from california state university, fullerton and a master of international management from the thunderbird school of global management. 17 alexander h. rogers, age 60, has served as executive vice president and president, qtl since october 2016. he served as senior vice president and president, qtl from september 2016 to october 2016, senior vice president, deputy general counsel and general manager, qtl from march 2016 to september 2016, senior vice president and deputy general counsel from october 2015 to march 2016 and senior vice president and legal counsel from april 2007 to october 2015. mr. rogers joined qualcomm in january 2001 as an attorney and throughout his tenure at qualcomm held several other leadership positions in the legal department. prior to joining qualcomm, mr. rogers was a partner at the law firm of gray, cary, ware &amp; friedenrich (now dla piper). mr. rogers holds b.a. and m.a. degrees in english literature from georgetown university and a j.d. degree from georgetown university law center. donald j. rosenberg, age 66, has served as executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since october 2007. he served as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary of apple inc. from december 2006 to october 2007. from may 1975 to november 2006, mr. rosenberg held numerous positions at ibm corporation, including senior vice president and general counsel. mr. rosenberg has served as a member of the board of directors of nuvasive, inc. since february 2016. mr. rosenberg holds a b.s. degree in mathematics from the state university of new york at stony brook and a j.d. degree from st. john's university school of law. michelle sterling, age 50, has served as executive vice president, human resources since may 2015. she served as senior vice president, human resources from october 2007 to april 2015. ms. sterling joined qualcomm in 1994 and throughout her tenure at qualcomm has held several other human resources and leadership positions. ms. sterling holds a b.s. degree in business management from the university of redlands. james h. thompson, age 53, has served as executive vice president, engineering, qualcomm technologies, inc. and chief technology officer since march 2017. he served as executive vice president, engineering, qualcomm technologies, inc. from october 2012 to march 2017 and as senior vice president, engineering, qualcomm incorporated from july 1998 to october 2012. dr. thompson joined qualcomm in 1992 as a senior engineer and throughout his tenure at qualcomm held several other technical and leadership positions. dr. thompson holds b.s., m.s. and ph.d. degrees in electrical engineering from the university of wisconsin. item 1a. risk factors you should consider each of the following factors in evaluating our business and our prospects. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also negatively impact our business and results of operations, and require significant management time and attention. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. you should also consider the other information set forth in this annual report in evaluating our business and our prospects, including but not limited to our financial statements and the related notes, and part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. risks related to our businesses our proposed acquisition of nxp semiconductors n.v. involves a number of risks, including, among others, the risk that we fail to complete the acquisition, in a timely manner or at all, regulatory risks, risks associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash and our taking on significant indebtedness, other financial risks, integration risks, and risk associated with the reactions of customers, suppliers and employees. our and nxp's obligations to consummate the proposed transaction are subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including, among others: (i) the tender of a minimum number of nxp's outstanding common shares in the tender offer commenced by a subsidiary of qualcomm incorporated; (ii) the receipt of regulatory clearance under european union and certain other foreign antitrust laws; (iii) the absence of any law or order prohibiting the proposed transaction; (iv) there being no event that would have a material adverse effect on nxp; (v) the accuracy of the representations and warranties of nxp, subject to certain exceptions, and nxp's material compliance with its covenants, in the definitive agreement; and (vi) the completion of certain internal reorganization steps with respect to nxp and the disposition of certain non-core assets of nxp. we cannot provide assurance that the conditions to the completion of the proposed transaction will be satisfied in a timely manner or at all, and if the proposed transaction is not completed, we would not realize any of the expected benefits. the regulatory approvals required in connection with the proposed transaction may not be obtained or may contain materially burdensome conditions. if any conditions or changes to the structure of the proposed transaction are required to obtain these regulatory approvals, they may have the effect of jeopardizing or delaying completion of the proposed transaction or reducing our anticipated benefits. if we agree to any material conditions in order to obtain any approvals required to complete the proposed transaction, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. 18 in addition, the use of a significant portion of our cash and the incurrence of substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of the proposed transaction will reduce our liquidity, and may limit our flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. see the risk factor entitled there are risks associated with our indebtedness . if the proposed transaction is not completed, our stock price could fall to the extent that our current price reflects an assumption that we will complete it. furthermore, if the proposed transaction is not completed and the purchase agreement is terminated, we would not realize any of the expected benefits of the proposed transaction, and we may suffer other consequences that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and stock price, including, among others: we could be required to pay a termination fee to nxp of $2.0 billion ; we will have incurred and may continue to incur costs relating to the proposed transaction, many of which are payable by us whether or not the proposed transaction is completed; matters relating to the proposed transaction (including integration planning) require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management team and numerous others throughout our organization, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities; we may be subject to legal proceedings related to the proposed transaction or the failure to complete the proposed transaction; the failure to consummate the proposed transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative perception of us in the investment community; and any disruptions to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the proposed transaction, including any adverse changes in our relationships with our customers, suppliers, partners or employees, may continue or intensify in the event the proposed transaction is not consummated. the proposed transaction will be our largest acquisition to date, by a significant margin. the benefits we expect to realize from the proposed transaction will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the businesses successfully and efficiently. see the risk factor entitled we may engage in strategic acquisitions, transactions or make investments that could adversely affect our results of operations or fail to enhance stockholder value . furthermore, uncertainties about the proposed transaction may cause our and/or nxp's current and prospective employees to experience uncertainty about their futures. these uncertainties may impair our and/or nxp's ability to retain, recruit or motivate key management, engineering, technical and other personnel. similarly, our and/or nxp's existing or prospective customers, licensees, suppliers and/or partners may delay, defer or cease purchasing products or services from or providing products or services to us or nxp; delay or defer other decisions concerning us or nxp; or otherwise seek to change the terms on which they do business with us or nxp. any of the above could harm us and/or nxp, and thus decrease the benefits we expect to receive from the proposed transaction. the proposed transaction may also result in significant charges or other liabilities that could adversely affect our results of operations, such as cash expenses and non-cash accounting charges incurred in connection with our acquisition and/or integration of the business and operations of nxp. further, our failure to identify or accurately assess the magnitude of certain liabilities we are assuming in the proposed transaction could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting charges, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. our revenues depend on commercial network deployments, expansions and upgrades of cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies; our customers' and licensees' sales of products and services based on these technologies; and customers' demand for our products and services. we develop, patent and commercialize technology and products based on cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies, which are primarily wireless. we depend on operators of wireless networks and our customers and licensees to adopt and/or implement the latest generation of these technologies for use in their networks, devices and services. we also depend on our customers and licensees to develop devices and services based on these technologies with value-added features to drive consumer demand for new 3g, 3g/4g multimode and 4g devices, and in the future 5g devices, as well as establishing the selling prices for such devices. further, we depend on the timing of our customers' and licensees' deployments of new devices and services based on these technologies. increasingly, we also depend on operators of wireless networks, our customers and licensees and other third parties to incorporate these technologies into new device types and into industries beyond traditional cellular communications, such as automotive, the internet of things (iot) (including the connected home, smart cities, wearables, voice and music and robotics), data center, networking, computing, and machine 19 learning, among others. we are also impacted by consumers' rates of replacement of smartphones and other computing devices. our revenues and/or growth in revenues could be negatively impacted, our business may be harmed and our substantial investments in these technologies may not provide us an adequate return, if: wireless operators and industries beyond traditional cellular communications deploy alternative technologies; wireless operators delay next-generation network deployments, expansions or upgrades and/or delay moving 2g customers to 3g, 3g/4g multimode or 4g wireless devices; lte, an ofdma-based 4g wireless technology, is not more widely deployed or further commercial deployment is delayed; government regulators delay making sufficient spectrum available for 3g, 4g, new unlicensed technologies that we are developing in conjunction with 3g and 4g, as well as for 5g, thereby restricting the ability of wireless operators to deploy or expand the use of these technologies; wireless operators delay or do not drive improvements in 3g, 4g or 3g/4g multimode network performance and/or capacity; our customers' and licensees' revenues and sales of products, particularly premium-tier products, and services using these technologies do not grow or do not grow as quickly as anticipated due to, for example, the maturity of smartphone penetration in developed regions; our intellectual property and technical leadership included in the 5g standardization effort is different than in 3g and 4g standards; the standardization and/or deployment of 5g technology is delayed; and/or we are unable to drive the adoption of our products and services into networks and devices, including devices beyond traditional cellular applications, based on cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies. our industry is subject to competition in an environment of rapid technological change that could result in decreased demand and/or declining average selling prices for our products and/or those of our customers and/or licensees. our products, services and technologies face significant competition. we expect competition to increase as our current competitors expand their product offerings or reduce the prices of their products as part of a strategy to attract new business and/or customers, as new opportunities develop and as new competitors enter the industry. competition in wireless communications is affected by various factors that include, among others: device manufacturer concentrations and vertical integration; growth in demand, consumption and competition in certain geographic regions; government intervention and/or support of national industries and/or competitors; evolving industry standards and business models; evolving methods of transmission of voice and data communications; increasing data traffic and densification of wireless networks; convergence and aggregation of connectivity technologies (including wi-fi and lte) in both devices and access points; consolidation of wireless technologies and infrastructure at the network edge; networking and connectivity trends (including cloud services); use of both licensed and unlicensed spectrum; the evolving nature of computing (including demand for always on, always connected capabilities); the speed of technological change (including the transition to smaller geometry process technologies); value-added features that drive selling prices as well as consumer demand for new 3g, 3g/4g multimode and 4g devices; turnkey, integrated products that incorporate hardware, software, user interface, applications and reference designs; scalability; and the ability of the system technology to meet customers' immediate and future network requirements. we anticipate that additional competitors will introduce products as a result of growth opportunities in wireless communications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in certain segments of the industry. additionally, the semiconductor industry has experienced and may continue to experience consolidation, which could result in significant changes to the competitive landscape. we expect that our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to: differentiate our integrated circuit products with innovative technologies across multiple products and features (e.g., modem, radio frequency front-end (rffe), graphics and/or other processors, camera and connectivity) and with smaller geometry process technologies that drive performance; develop and offer integrated circuit products at competitive cost and price points to effectively cover both emerging and developed geographic regions and all device tiers; 20 continue to drive the adoption of our integrated circuit products into the most popular device models and across a broad spectrum of devices, such as smartphones, tablets, laptops, other computing devices, automobiles, wearables and voice and music and other connected devices and infrastructure products; maintain and/or accelerate demand for our integrated circuit products at the premium device tier, while increasing the adoption of our products in mid- and low-tier devices, in part by strengthening our integrated circuit product roadmap for, and developing channel relationships in, emerging geographic regions, such as china and india, and by providing turnkey products, which incorporate our integrated circuits, for low- and mid-tier smartphones, tablets and laptops; continue to be a leader in 4g technology evolution, including expansion of our lte-based single mode licensing program in areas where single-mode products are commercialized, and continue to innovate and introduce 4g turnkey, integrated products and services that differentiate us from our competition; be a leader serving original equipment manufacturers, high level operating systems (hlos) providers, operators, cloud providers and other industry participants as competitors, new industry entrants and other factors continue to affect the industry landscape; be a preferred partner (and sustain preferred relationships) providing integrated circuit products that support multiple operating system and infrastructure platforms to industry participants that effectively commercialize new devices using these platforms; increase and/or accelerate demand for our semiconductor component products, including rffe, and our wired and wireless connectivity products, including networking products for consumers, carriers and enterprise equipment and connected devices; identify potential acquisition targets that will grow or sustain our business or address strategic needs, reach agreement on terms acceptable to us and effectively integrate these new businesses and/or technologies; create standalone value and/or contribute to the success of our existing businesses through acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions (and/or by developing customer, licensee and/or vendor relationships) in new industry segments and/or disruptive technologies, products and/or services (such as products for automotive, iot (including the connected home, smart cities, wearables, voice and music and robotics), data center, networking, computing, and machine learning, among others); become a leading supplier of rffe products, which are designed to address cellular radio frequency band fragmentation while improving radio frequency performance and assist original equipment manufacturers in developing multiband, multimode mobile devices; be a leader in 5g technology development, standardization, intellectual property creation and licensing and develop and commercialize 5g integrated circuit products and services; and/or continue to develop brand recognition to effectively compete against better known companies in computing and other consumer driven segments and to deepen our presence in significant emerging geographic regions. competition in any or all product tiers may result in the loss of certain business or customers, which would negatively impact our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. such competition may also reduce average selling prices for our chipset products and/or the products of our customers and licensees. certain of these dynamics are particularly pronounced in emerging geographic regions where competitors may have lower cost structures and/or may have a willingness and ability to accept lower prices and/or lower or negative margins on their products (particularly in china). reductions in the average selling prices of our chipset products, without a corresponding increase in volumes, would negatively impact our revenues, and without corresponding decreases in average unit costs, would negatively impact our margins. in addition, reductions in the average selling prices of our licensees' products, unless offset by an increase in volumes, would generally decrease total royalties payable to us, negatively impacting our licensing revenues. companies that promote standards that are neither cdma- nor ofdma-based (e.g., gsm) as well as companies that design integrated circuits based on cdma, ofdma, wi-fi or their derivatives are generally competitors or potential competitors. examples (some of which are strategic partners of ours in other areas) include broadcom limited, cirrus logic, cypress semiconductor corporation, hisilicon technologies, intel, marvell technology, maxim integrated products, mediatek, microchip technology inc., murata manufacturing co., ltd., nordic semiconductor, nvidia, qorvo inc., realtek semiconductor, renesas electronics corporation, samsung electronics, sequans communications s.a., skyworks solutions inc., sony corporation and spreadtrum communications (which is controlled by tsinghua unigroup). some of these current and potential competitors may have advantages over us that include, among others: motivation by our customers in certain 21 circumstances to utilize their own internally-developed integrated circuit products, to use our competitors' integrated circuit products and/or sell such products to others, including by bundling with other products, or to choose alternative technologies; lower cost structures and/or a willingness and ability to accept lower prices and lower or negative margins for their products, particularly in china; foreign government support of other technologies or competitors; better known brand names; ownership and control of manufacturing facilities and greater expertise in manufacturing processes; more extensive relationships with local distribution companies and original equipment manufacturers in certain geographic regions (such as china) and/or experience in adjacent industry segments outside traditional cellular industries (such as automotive and iot); and/or a more established presence in certain regions. we derive a significant portion of our consolidated revenues from a small number of customers and licensees. if revenues derived from these customers or licensees decrease or the timing of such revenues fluctuates, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. our qct segment derives a significant portion of its revenues from a small number of customers, and we expect this trend to continue in the foreseeable future. our industry is experiencing and may continue to experience concentration of device share among a few companies, particularly at the premium tier, contributing to this trend. in addition, certain of our largest integrated circuit customers develop their own integrated circuit products, which they have in the past chosen, and may in the future choose, to utilize in certain of their devices rather than our integrated circuit products (and/or sell their integrated circuit products to third parties in competition with us). also, one of our largest integrated circuit customers has utilized products of one of our competitors in certain of their devices rather than our products. the loss of any one of our significant customers, a reduction in the purchases of our products by such customers or the cancelation of significant purchases by any of these customers, whether due to the use of their own integrated circuit products, our competitors' integrated circuit products or otherwise, would reduce our revenues and could harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected results of operations, and a delay of significant purchases, even if only temporary, would reduce our revenues in the period of the delay. any such reduction in revenues would also impact our cash resources available for other purposes, such as research and development. further, the concentration of device share among a few companies, and the corresponding purchasing power of these companies, may result in lower prices for our products which, if not accompanied by a sufficient increase in the volume of purchases of our products, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and margins. in addition, the timing and size of purchases by our significant customers may be impacted by the timing of such customers' new or next generation product introductions, over which we have no control, and the timing of such introductions may cause our revenues and results of operations to fluctuate. accordingly, if current industry dynamics and concentrations continue, our qct segment's revenues will continue to depend largely upon, and be impacted by, future purchases, and the timing and size of any such future purchases, by these significant customers. one of our largest customers purchases our mobile data modem (mdm) products, which do not include our integrated application processor technology and which have lower revenue and margin contributions than our combined modem and application processor products. to the extent such customer takes device share from our other customers who purchase our integrated modem and application processor products, our revenues and margins may be negatively impacted. further, companies that develop hlos for devices, including leading technology companies, now sell their own devices. if we fail to effectively partner or continue partnering with these companies, or with their partners or customers, they may decide not to purchase (either directly or through their contract manufacturers), or to reduce or discontinue their purchases of, our integrated circuit products. in addition, there has been and continues to be litigation among certain of our customers and other industry participants, and the potential outcomes of such litigation, including but not limited to injunctions against devices that incorporate our products and/or intellectual property, or rulings on certain patent law or patent licensing issues that create new legal precedent, could impact our business, particularly if such action impacts one of our larger customers. although we have several hundred licensees, our qtl segment derives a significant portion of its licensing revenues from a limited number of licensees. in the event that one or more of our significant licensees fail to meet their reporting and/or payment obligations, or we are unable to renew or modify one or more of such license agreements under similar terms, our revenues, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely impacted. moreover, the future growth and success of our core licensing business will depend in part on the ability of our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver high-volume products that achieve and sustain customer acceptance. we have no control over the product development, sales efforts or pricing of products by our licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. reductions in the average selling prices of wireless devices sold by our significant licensees, without a sufficient increase in the volumes of such devices sold, would generally have an adverse effect on our licensing revenues. 22 we derive a significant portion of our consolidated revenues from the premium-tier device segment. if sales of premium-tier devices decrease, and/or sales of our premium-tier integrated circuit products decrease, our results of operations could be negatively affected. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from the premium-tier device segment, and we expect this trend to continue in the foreseeable future. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, slowing growth in the premium-tier device segment due to, among other factors, lengthening replacement cycles in developed regions, where premium-tier smartphones are common; increasing consumer demand in emerging regions, particularly china and india, where premium-tier smartphones are less common and replacement cycles are on average longer than in developed regions; and/or a maturing premium-tier smartphone industry in which demand is increasingly driven by new product launches and/or innovation cycles. in addition, as discussed in the prior risk factor, our industry is experiencing concentration of device share among a few companies at the premium tier, which gives them significant supply chain leverage. further, those companies may utilize their own internally-developed integrated circuit products, or our competitors' integrated circuit products, rather than our products in a portion of their devices. these dynamics may result in lower prices for and/or reduced sales of our premium-tier integrated circuit products. a reduction in sales of premium-tier devices, or a reduction in sales of our premium-tier integrated circuit products (which have a higher revenue and margin contribution than our lower-tier integrated circuit products), may reduce our revenues and margins and may harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected financial results. any such reduction in revenues would also impact our cash resources available for other purposes, such as research and development. efforts by some communications equipment manufacturers or their customers to avoid paying fair and reasonable royalties for the use of our intellectual property may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources and may result in legal decisions and/or actions by governments, courts, regulators or agencies, standards development organizations (sdos) or other industry organizations that harm our business. from time to time, companies initiate various strategies to attempt to renegotiate, mitigate and/or eliminate their need to pay royalties to us for the use of our intellectual property. these strategies have included: (i) litigation, often alleging infringement of patents held by such companies, patent misuse, patent exhaustion, patent invalidity and/or unenforceability of our patents and/or licenses, that we do not license our patents on fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory (frand) terms, or some form of unfair competition or competition law violation; (ii) taking positions contrary to our understanding of their contracts with us; (iii) appeals to governmental authorities; (iv) collective action, including working with wireless operators, standards bodies, other like-minded companies and other organizations, on both formal and informal bases, to adopt intellectual property policies and practices that could have the effect of limiting returns on intellectual property innovations; (v) lobbying governmental regulators and elected officials for the purpose of seeking the reduction of royalty rates or the base on which royalties are calculated, the imposition of some form of compulsory licensing and/or to weaken a patent holder's ability to enforce its rights or obtain a fair return for such rights; and (vi) licensees using various strategies to attempt to shift their royalty obligation to their suppliers that results in lowering the wholesale (i.e., licensee's) selling price on which the royalty is calculated. in addition, certain licensees have disputed, underreported, underpaid, not reported and/or not paid royalties owed to us under their license agreements or reported to us in a manner that is not in compliance with their contractual obligations, and certain companies have yet to enter into or delayed entering into or renewing license agreements with us for their use of our intellectual property, and licensees and/or companies may continue to do so in the future. the fact that one or more licensees dispute, underreport, underpay, do not report and/or do not pay royalties owed to us may encourage other licensees to take similar actions and may encourage other licensees or unlicensed companies to delay entering into, or not enter into, new license agreements. further, to the extent such licensees and/or companies increase their device share, the negative impact of their underreporting, underpayment, non-payment and/or non-reporting on our business, revenues, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows will be exacerbated. we are currently subject to various litigation and governmental investigations and/or proceedings, some of which have arisen and may continue to arise out of the strategies described above. certain legal matters are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. depending on the type of matter, various remedies that could result from an unfavorable resolution include, among others, injunctions, monetary damages or fines or other orders to pay money and the issuance of orders to cease certain conduct and/or modify our business practices. further, a governmental body in a particular country or region may assert, and may be successful in imposing, remedies with effects that extend beyond the borders of that 23 country or region. see also the risk factor entitled if we are required to change our patent licensing practices due to governmental investigations and/or private legal proceedings challenging those practices, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. in addition, in connection with our participation in sdos, we, like other patent owners, generally have made contractual commitments to such organizations to license those of our patents that would necessarily be infringed by standard-compliant products as set forth in those commitments. some manufacturers and users of standard-compliant products advance interpretations of these commitments that are adverse to our licensing business, including interpretations that would limit the amount of royalties that we could collect on the licensing of our patent portfolio. further, some companies or entities have proposed significant changes to existing intellectual property policies for implementation by sdos and other industry organizations with the goal of significantly devaluing standard-essential patents. for example, some have put forth proposals which would require a maximum aggregate intellectual property royalty rate for the use of all standard-essential patents owned by all of the member companies to be applied to the selling price of any product implementing the relevant standard. they have further proposed that such maximum aggregate royalty rate be apportioned to each member company with standard-essential patents based upon the number of standard-essential patents held by such company. others have proposed that injunctions not be an available remedy for infringement of standard-essential patents and/or have made proposals that could severely limit damage awards and other remedies by courts for patent infringement (e.g., by severely limiting the base upon which the royalty percentage may be applied). a number of these strategies are purportedly based on interpretations of the policies of certain sdos concerning the licensing of patents that are or may be essential to industry standards and on our (and/or other companies') alleged failure to abide by these policies. some sdos, courts and governmental agencies have adopted and may in the future adopt some or all of these interpretations or proposals in a manner adverse to our interests, including in litigation to which we may not be a party. we expect that such proposals, interpretations and strategies will continue in the future, and if successful, our business model would be harmed, either by limiting or eliminating our ability to collect royalties (or by reducing the royalties we can collect) on all or a portion of our patent portfolio, limiting our return on investment with respect to new technologies, limiting our ability to seek injunctions against infringers of our standard-essential patents, constraining our ability to make licensing commitments when submitting our technology for inclusion in future standards (which could make our technology less likely to be included in such standards) or forcing us to work outside of sdos or other industry groups to promote our new technologies, and our revenues, results of operations and/or cash flows could be negatively impacted. in addition, the legal and other costs associated with asserting or defending our positions have been and continue to be significant. we assume that such challenges, regardless of their merits, will continue into the foreseeable future and may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources. our business, particularly our licensing business, may suffer as a result of adverse rulings in government investigations or proceedings. we are currently subject to various governmental investigations and/or proceedings, particularly with respect to our licensing business, and certain such matters are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. key allegations in those matters include, among others, that we do not license our cellular standard-essential patents separately from our other patents, that we violate frand licensing commitments by refusing to grant licenses to chipset makers, that our royalty rates are too high and/or that the base on which our royalties are calculated should be something less than the wholesale (i.e., licensee's) selling price of the applicable device (minus certain permitted deductions). the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. depending on the type of matter, various remedies that could result from an unfavorable resolution include, among others, injunctions, monetary damages or fines or other orders to pay money, and the issuance of orders to cease certain conduct and/or modify our business practices. further, a governmental body in a particular country or region may assert, and may be successful in imposing, remedies with effects that extend beyond the borders of that country or region. see also the risk factor entitled if we are required to change our patent licensing practices due to governmental investigations and/or private legal proceedings challenging those practices, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. if we are required to change our patent licensing practices due to governmental investigations and/or private legal proceedings challenging those practices, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. we are currently subject to various governmental investigations and private legal proceedings challenging our patent licensing practices as described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. key allegations in those matters include, among others, that we do not license our cellular standard-essential patents separately from our other patents, that we violate frand licensing commitments by refusing to 24 grant licenses to chipset makers, that our royalty rates are too high and/or that the base on which our royalties are calculated should be something less than the wholesale (i.e., licensee's) selling price of the applicable device (minus certain permitted deductions). we believe that the ultimate intent of these investigations and legal proceedings is to reduce the amount of royalties that licensees are required to pay to us for their use of our intellectual property. we have historically licensed our cellular standard-essential patents together with our other patents that may be useful to licensed products because licensees typically have desired to obtain the commercial benefits of receiving such broad patent rights from us. however, we also have licensed only our cellular standard-essential patents to certain licensees who have requested such licenses. in addition, in connection with our resolution with the china national development and reform commission (ndrc) in china, our standard practice in china since 2015 is to offer licenses for our 3g and 4g standard-essential chinese patents for branded devices sold for use in china separately from licenses to our other patents. if we were required to separately license our cellular standard-essential patents to all of our licensees worldwide, and more licensees chose such a license instead of a portfolio license than has historically been the case, our licensing revenues and earnings would be negatively impacted unless we were able to license our other patents at rates that offset all or a portion of any difference between the royalties previously received for licenses of substantially all of our patent portfolio as compared to licenses of only our cellular standard-essential patents and/or there was a sufficient increase in the overall volume of sales of devices upon which royalties are paid. if we were required to grant patent licenses to chipset manufacturers (i.e., to implement a more complex, tiered licensing structure in which we license certain portions of our patent portfolio to chipset manufacturers and other portions to device manufacturers), we would incur additional transaction costs, which may be significant, and we may incur delays in recognizing revenues until license negotiations were completed. in addition, our licensing revenues and earnings would be negatively impacted if we were not able to obtain, in the aggregate, equivalent revenues under such a multi-level licensing structure. if we were required to reduce the royalty rates we charge under our patent license agreements, our revenues and earnings would be negatively impacted absent a sufficient increase in the volume of sales of devices upon which royalties are paid. similarly, if we were required to reduce the base on which our royalties are calculated, our revenues, results of operations and/or cash flows would be negatively impacted unless there was a sufficient increase in the volume of sales of devices upon which royalties are paid and/or we were able to increase our royalty rates to offset the decrease in revenues resulting from such lower royalty base (assuming the absolute royalty dollars were below any relevant royalty caps). to the extent that we were required to implement any of these new licensing practices by modifying or renegotiating our existing license agreements, we would incur additional transaction costs, which may be significant, and we may incur delays in recognizing revenues until license negotiations were completed. the impact of any such changes to our licensing practices could vary widely and by jurisdiction, depending on the specific outcomes and the geographic scope of such outcomes. in addition, if we were required to make modifications to our licensing practices in one jurisdiction, licensees and/or governmental agencies in other jurisdictions may attempt to obtain similar outcomes for themselves and/or for such other jurisdictions, as applicable. the enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive, could fail to prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights, could result in the loss of our ability to enforce one or more patents, and/or could be adversely affected by changes in patent laws, by laws in certain foreign jurisdictions that may not effectively protect our intellectual property rights and/or by ineffective enforcement of laws in such jurisdictions. we rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, international treaties and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes, including our patent portfolio. policing unauthorized use of our products, technologies and proprietary information is difficult and time consuming. the steps we have taken have not always prevented, and we cannot be certain the steps we will take in the future will prevent, the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary intellectual property rights as fully or as readily as united states laws or where the enforcement of such laws may be lacking or ineffective. some industry participants who have a vested interest in devaluing patents in general, or standard-essential patents in particular, have mounted attacks on certain patent systems, increasing the likelihood of changes to established patent laws. in the united states, there is continued discussion regarding potential patent law changes and current and potential future litigation regarding patents, the outcomes of which could be detrimental to our licensing business. the laws in certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including certain countries in asia, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws in the united states. we expect that the european union will adopt a unitary patent system in the next few years that may broadly impact that region's patent regime. we cannot predict with certainty the long-term effects of any 25 potential changes. in addition, we cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country or the practices of any standards bodies, foreign or domestic, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing or the adoption of standards, will not be changed in the future in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technologies. we have had and may in the future have difficulty in certain circumstances in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights and/or contracts, including collecting royalties for use of our patent portfolio due to, among others: refusal by certain licensees to report and/or pay all or a portion of the royalties they owe to us; policies of foreign governments; challenges to our licensing practices under competition laws; adoption of mandatory licensing provisions by foreign jurisdictions (either with controlled/regulated royalties or royalty free); failure of foreign courts to recognize and enforce judgments of contract breach and damages issued by courts in the united states; and/or challenges before competition agencies to our licensing business and/or the pricing and integration of additional features and functionality into our chipset products. certain licensees have disputed, underreported, underpaid, not reported and/or not paid royalties owed to us under their license agreements with us or reported to us in a manner that is not in compliance with their contractual obligations, and certain companies have yet to enter into or delayed entering into or renewing license agreements for their use of our intellectual property, and such licensees and/or companies may continue to do so in the future. the fact that one or more licensees dispute, underreport, underpay, do not report and/or do not pay royalties owed to us may encourage other licensees to take similar actions and may encourage other licensees or unlicensed companies to delay entering into, or not enter into, new license agreements. additionally, although our license agreements provide us with the right to audit the books and records of licensees, audits can be expensive, time consuming, incomplete and subject to dispute. further, certain licensees may not comply with the obligation to provide full access to their books and records. to the extent we do not aggressively enforce our rights under our license agreements, licensees may not comply with their existing license agreements, and to the extent we do not aggressively pursue unlicensed companies to enter into license agreements with us for their use of our intellectual property, other unlicensed companies may not enter into license agreements. we have entered into litigation in the past and may need to further litigate in the future to enforce our contract and/or intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. we are currently engaged in litigation matters related to protecting or enforcing our contract and/or intellectual property rights, and certain such matters are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. as a result of any such litigation, we could lose our ability to enforce one or more patents, portions of our license agreements could be determined to be invalid or unenforceable (which may in turn result in other licensees either not complying with their existing license agreements and/or initiating litigation) and/or we could incur substantial costs. any action we take to enforce our contract or intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our results of operations and/or cash flows. further, even a positive resolution to our enforcement efforts may take time to conclude, which may reduce our revenues and cash resources available for other purposes, such as research and development, in the periods prior to conclusion. see also the risk factor entitled if we are required to change our patent licensing practices due to governmental investigations and/or private legal proceedings challenging those practices, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. our growth increasingly depends on our ability to extend our technologies, products and services into new and expanded product areas, such as rffe, and adjacent industry segments outside of traditional cellular industries, such as automotive, iot and networking, among others. our research, development and other investments in these new and expanded product areas and industry segments, and related technologies, products and services, as well as in our existing technologies, products and services and new technologies, such as 5g, may not generate operating income or contribute to future results of operations that meet our expectations. our industry is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions, and we must make substantial research, development and other investments, such as acquisitions, in new products, services and technologies to compete successfully. technological innovations generally require significant research and development efforts before they are commercially viable. while we continue to invest significant resources toward advancements primarily in support of 4g ofdma- and 5g-based technologies, we also innovate across a broad spectrum of opportunities to deploy new and expanded products and enter into adjacent industry segments by leveraging our existing technical and business expertise and/or through acquisitions. in particular, our future growth significantly depends on new and expanded product areas, such as rffe, and adjacent industry segments, such as automotive, iot (including the connected home, smart cities, wearables, voice and music and robotics) data center, networking, computing, and machine learning, among others; our ability to develop leading and cost-effective technologies, products and services for new and expanded product areas and adjacent industry segments; and third 26 parties incorporating our technology, products and services into devices used in these product areas and industry segments. accordingly, we intend to continue to make substantial investments in these new and expanded product areas and adjacent industry segments, and in developing new products, services and technologies for these product areas and industry segments. however, our research, development and other investments in these new and expanded product areas and adjacent industry segments, and corresponding technologies, products and services, as well as in our existing, technologies, products and services and new technologies, such as 5g, use of both licensed and unlicensed spectrum, and convergence of cellular and wi-fi, may not succeed due to, among others: new industry segments and/or consumer demand may not grow as anticipated; our strategies and/or the strategies of our customers, licensees or partners may not be successful; improvements in alternate technologies in ways that reduce the advantages we anticipate from our investments; competitors' products or services being more cost effective, having more capabilities or fewer limitations or being brought to market faster than our new products and services; and competitors having longer operating histories in industry segments that are new to us. we may also underestimate the costs of or overestimate the future revenues and/or margins that could result from these investments, and these investments may not, or may take many years to, generate material returns. further, the automotive industry is subject to long design-in time frames, long product life cycles and a high degree of regulatory and safety requirements, necessitating suppliers to the industry to comply with stringent qualification processes, very low defect rates and high reliability standards, all of which results in a significant barrier to entry and increased costs. if our new technologies, products and/or services are not successful, or are not successful in the time frame we anticipate, we may incur significant costs and/or asset impairments, our business may not grow as anticipated, our revenues and/or margins may be negatively impacted and/or our reputation may be harmed. there are numerous risks associated with our operation and control of manufacturing facilities we acquired through the formation of our joint venture with tdk, rf360 holdings, including a higher portion of fixed costs relative to a fabless model, environmental compliance and liability, exposure to natural disasters, timely supply of equipment and materials and manufacturing difficulties. manufacturing facilities are characterized by a higher portion of fixed costs relative to a fabless model. in less favorable industry environments, in particular, we may be faced with a decline in the utilization rates of our manufacturing facilities due to decreases in demand for our products. during such periods, our manufacturing facilities could operate at lower capacity levels, while the fixed costs associated with full capacity continue to be incurred, resulting in lower gross profit. we are subject to many environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate our manufacturing facilities, which govern, among other things, emissions of pollutants into the air, wastewater discharges, the use and handling of hazardous substances, waste disposal, the investigation and remediation of soil and ground water contamination and the health and safety of our employees. we are also required to obtain and maintain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. we cannot make assurances that we will be at all times in compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. certain environmental laws impose strict, and in certain circumstances, joint and several, liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances. certain of these laws also assess liability on persons who arrange for hazardous substances to be sent to disposal or treatment facilities when such facilities are found to be contaminated. in addition, we could also be held liable for consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances or other environmental damage. we have manufacturing facilities in asia and europe. if tsunamis, flooding, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters or geopolitical conflicts were to damage, destroy or disrupt our manufacturing facilities, it could disrupt our operations, delay new production and shipments of inventory or result in costly repairs, replacements or other costs. in addition, natural disasters or geopolitical conflicts may result in disruptions in transportation, distribution channels or supply chains, or significant increases in the prices of raw materials. our manufacturing operations depend on securing raw materials and other supplies in adequate quality and quantity in a timely manner from multiple suppliers, and in some cases we rely on a limited number of suppliers, particularly in asia. accordingly, there may be cases where supplies of raw materials and other products are interrupted by disaster, accident or some other event at a supplier, supply is suspended due to quality or other issues, or there is a shortage of supply due to a rapid increase in demand, which could impact production and prevent us from supplying products to our customers. if the supply-demand balance is disrupted, it may considerably increase costs of manufacturing due to increased prices we pay for raw materials or fuel. from time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit the amounts supplied to us or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. further, it may be difficult or impossible to substitute one piece of equipment for another or replace one type of material with another. a failure by our suppliers to deliver our requirements could result in disruptions to our manufacturing operations. 27 our manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and must be continuously modified to improve yields and performance. difficulties in the production process can reduce yields or interrupt production, and as a result we may not be able to deliver products or do so in a timely, cost-effective or competitive manner. further, to remain competitive and/or meet customer demand, we may be required to improve our facilities and process technologies and carry out extensive research and development, each of which may require investment of significant amounts of capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. the continued and future success of our licensing programs can be impacted by the deployment of other technologies in place of technologies based on cdma, ofdma and their derivatives; the success of our licensing programs for 4g single mode products and emerging industry segments; and the need to extend license agreements that are expiring and/or to cover additional future patents. although we own a very strong portfolio of issued and pending patents related to ofdm, ofdma, wlan and other technologies, our patent portfolio licensing program in some of these areas may be less established and might not be as successful in generating licensing revenues as our cdma licensing program has been. many wireless operators have selected or have deployed ofdma-based lte as their next-generation 4g technology in existing (or future if not yet deployed) wireless spectrum bands as complementary to their existing cdma-based networks. while 3g/4g multimode products are generally covered by our existing 3g licensing agreements, products that implement 4g but do not also implement 3g are generally not covered by these agreements. we believe that our patented technologies are essential and useful to implementation of the lte industry standards and have granted royalty-bearing 4g single-mode licenses to the majority of the leading handset and other wireless device companies (including huawei, lg, microsoft, oppo, samsung, sony mobile, vivo, xiaomi and zte) as they recognize that they need a license to our patents to make and sell products implementing 4g standards but not implementing 3g standards. the royalty rates for single mode 4g products are lower than our royalty rates for 3g and 3g/4g multimode products. accordingly, without a corresponding increase in volumes and/or device asp, we will not achieve the same licensing revenues on such lte products as on 3g and 3g/4g multimode products. in addition, new connectivity and other services are emerging that rely on devices that may or may not be used on traditional cellular networks, such as devices used in the iot and automotive industry segments. we also seek to diversify and broaden our technology licensing programs to new industry segments in which we can utilize our technology leadership, such as wireless charging and other technologies. standards, even de facto standards, that develop as these technologies mature, in particular those that do not include a base level of interoperability, may impact our ability to obtain royalties at all or that are equivalent to those that we receive for 3g and 3g/4g multimode products used in cellular communications. although we believe that our patented technologies are essential and useful to the commercialization of such services, any royalties we receive may be lower than those we receive from our current licensing program. over the long-term, we need to continue to evolve our patent portfolio, particularly in 5g. if we do not maintain a strong portfolio that is applicable to current and/or future standards (such as 5g), products and/or services, our future licensing revenues could be negatively impacted. the licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date. as a result, there are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us. additionally, certain of our license agreements (including essentially all of our recent agreements in china) are effective for a specified term. in order to license or to obtain a license to such later patents or after the expiration of a specified term, or to receive royalties after the specified time period, we will need to extend or modify such license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees. accordingly, to the extent not renewed on their terms or by election for an additional (generally multi-year) period, if applicable, we will need to extend or modify such license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees more frequently than we have done historically. we might not be able to renew those license agreements, or enter into new license agreements, in the future without affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees, and such modifications or new agreements may negatively impact our revenues. if there is a delay in renewing a license agreement prior to its expiration, there would be a delay in our ability to recognize revenues related to that licensee's product sales. further, if we are unable to reach agreement on such modifications or new agreements, it could result in patent infringement litigation with such companies. we depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for the procurement, manufacture and testing of our products manufactured in a fabless production model. if we fail to execute supply strategies that provide technology leadership, supply assurance and low cost, our business and results of operations may be harmed. we are also subject to order and shipment uncertainties that could negatively impact our results of operations. our qct segment primarily utilizes a fabless production model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. other than the manufacturing facilities we now operate through our recently formed rf360 holdings joint venture, we rely on independent third-party suppliers to 28 perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits. our suppliers are also responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. we employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing models to purchase our integrated circuits. under the turnkey model, our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. under the two-stage manufacturing model, we purchase die in singular or wafer form from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-party suppliers for manufacturing services such as wafer bump, probe, assembly and the majority of our final test requirements. the semiconductor manufacturing foundries that supply products to our qct segment are primarily located in asia, as are our primary warehouses where we store finished goods for fulfillment of customer orders. the following could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands and/or negatively impact our revenues, business operations, profitability and/or cash flows: a reduction, interruption, delay or limitation in our product supply sources; a failure by our suppliers to procure raw materials or to provide or allocate adequate manufacturing or test capacity for our products; our suppliers' inability to react to shifts in product demand or an increase in raw material or component prices; our suppliers' delay in developing leading process technologies, or inability to develop or maintain leading process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies; the loss of a supplier or the inability of a supplier to meet performance, quality or yield specifications or delivery schedules; additional expense and/or production delays as a result of qualifying a new supplier and commencing volume production or testing in the event of a loss of or a decision to add or change a supplier; and/or natural disasters or geopolitical conflicts, particularly in asia, impacting our suppliers. while we have established alternate suppliers for certain technologies, we rely on sole- or limited-source suppliers for certain products, subjecting us to significant risks, including: possible shortages of raw materials or manufacturing capacity; poor product performance; and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability and yields, quality assurance, quantity and costs. to the extent we have established alternate suppliers, these suppliers may require significant levels of support to bring complex technologies to production. as a result, we may invest a significant amount of effort and resources and incur higher costs to support and maintain such alternate suppliers. further, any future consolidation of foundry suppliers could increase our vulnerability to sole- or limited-source arrangements and reduce our suppliers' willingness to negotiate pricing, which could negatively impact our ability to achieve cost reductions and/or increase our manufacturing costs. our arrangements with our suppliers may obligate us to incur costs to manufacture and test our products that do not decrease at the same rate as decreases in pricing to our customers. our ability, and that of our suppliers, to develop or maintain leading process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies, and to effectively compete with the manufacturing processes and performance of our competitors, could impact our ability to introduce new products and meet customer demand, could increase our costs (possibly decreasing our margins) and could subject us to the risk of excess inventories. our inability to meet customer demand due to sole- or limited-sourcing and/or the additional costs that we incur because of these or other supply constraints or because of the need to support alternate suppliers could negatively impact our business, our results of operations and/or cash flows. although we have long-term contracts with our suppliers, many of these contracts do not provide for long-term capacity commitments. to the extent we do not have firm commitments from our suppliers over a specific time period or for any specific quantity, our suppliers may allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production and testing of products for their other customers while reducing or limiting capacity to manufacture or test our products. accordingly, capacity for our products may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. to the extent we do obtain long-term capacity commitments, we may incur additional costs related to those commitments and/or make non-refundable payments for capacity commitments that are not used. one or more of our suppliers or potential alternate suppliers may manufacture cdma- or ofdma-based integrated circuits that compete with our products. such suppliers could elect to allocate raw materials and manufacturing capacity to their own products and reduce or limit deliveries to us to our detriment. in addition, we may not receive reasonable pricing, manufacturing or delivery terms from our suppliers. we cannot guarantee that the actions of our suppliers will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost of sales. 29 additionally, we place orders with our suppliers using our forecasts of customer demand, which are based on a number of assumptions and estimates, and are generally only partially covered by commitments from our customers. if we overestimate customer demand, we may experience increased excess and/or obsolete inventory, which would negatively impact our results of operations. claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property could adversely affect our business. from time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights against our products or products using our technologies or other technologies used in our industry. these claims have resulted and may again result in our involvement in litigation. we may not prevail in such litigation given, among other factors, the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if any of our products or services were found to infringe another company's intellectual property rights, we could be subject to an injunction or be required to redesign our products or services, which could be costly, or to license such rights and/or pay damages or other compensation to such other company. if we are unable to redesign our products or services, license such intellectual property rights used in our products or services or otherwise distribute our products (e.g., through a licensed supplier), we could be prohibited from making and selling such products or providing such services. in any potential dispute involving other companies' patents or other intellectual property, our chipset foundries, semiconductor assembly and test providers and customers could also become the targets of litigation. we are contingently liable under certain product sales, services, license and other agreements to indemnify certain customers, chipset foundries and semiconductor assembly and test service providers against certain types of liability and/or damages arising from qualifying claims of patent infringement by products or services sold or provided by us, or by intellectual property provided by us to our chipset foundries and semiconductor assembly and test service providers. reimbursements under indemnification arrangements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and/or cash flows. furthermore, any such litigation could severely disrupt the supply of our products and the businesses of our chipset customers and their customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our chipset sales and/or reductions in our licensees' sales, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. any claims, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming to address, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. we expect that we may continue to be involved in litigation and may have to appear in front of administrative bodies (such as the united states international trade commission) to defend against patent assertions against our products by companies, some of whom are attempting to gain competitive advantage or leverage in licensing negotiations. we may not be successful in such proceedings, and if we are not, the range of possible outcomes is very broad and may include, for example, monetary damages or fines or other orders to pay money, royalty payments, injunctions on the sale of certain of our integrated circuit products (and/or on the sale of our customers' devices using such products) and/or the issuance of orders to cease certain conduct and/or modify our business practices. further, a governmental body in a particular country or region may assert, and may be successful in imposing, remedies with effects that extend beyond the borders of that country or region. in addition, a negative outcome in any such proceeding could severely disrupt the business of our chipset customers and their wireless operator customers, which in turn could harm our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our worldwide chipset sales and/or a reduction in our licensees' sales to wireless operators, causing corresponding declines in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. certain legal matters, including certain claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property, are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. we may engage in strategic acquisitions, transactions or make investments that could adversely affect our results of operations or fail to enhance stockholder value. we engage in strategic acquisitions and other transactions, including joint ventures, and make investments, which we believe are important to the future of our business, with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. we acquire businesses and other assets, including patents, technology, wireless spectrum and other intangible assets, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase minority equity interests in or make loans to companies that may be private and early-stage. our strategic activities are generally focused on opening or expanding opportunities for our technologies and supporting the design and introduction of new products and services (or enhancing existing products or services) for voice and data communications and new industry segments. recent material transactions include our acquisition of csr plc, our rf360 holdings joint venture with tdk corporation and our proposed acquisition of nxp. many of our strategic activities entail a high degree of risk and require the use of domestic and/or foreign capital, and investments may not become liquid for several years after the date of the investment, if at all. our strategic activities may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies, products or services. we may underestimate the costs and/or 30 overestimate the benefits, including product, revenue, cost and other synergies and growth opportunities that we expect to realize, and we may not achieve those benefits. in some cases, we may be required to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of companies in which we have acquired ownership interests. in addition, we may record impairment charges related to our strategic activities. any losses or impairment charges that we incur related to strategic activities will have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations, and we may continue to incur new or additional losses related to strategic assets or investments that we have not fully impaired or exited. achieving the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions, including joint ventures and other strategic investments in which we have management and operational control, depends in part upon our ability to integrate the businesses in an efficient and effective manner and achieve anticipated synergies, and we may not be successful in these efforts. such integration is complex and time consuming and involves significant challenges, including, among others: retaining key employees; successfully integrating new employees, technology, products, processes, operations (including manufacturing operations), sales and distribution channels, business models and business systems; retaining customers and suppliers of the businesses; consolidating research and development and/or supply operations; minimizing the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business matters; consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; and managing the increased scale, complexity and globalization of our business, operations and employee base. we may not derive any commercial value from associated technologies or products or from future technologies or products based on these technologies, and we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by indemnification protection that we may obtain, and we may become subject to litigation. additionally, we may not be successful in entering or expanding into new sales or distribution channels, business or operational models (including manufacturing), geographic regions, industry segments and/or categories of products served by or adjacent to the associated businesses or in addressing potential new opportunities that may arise out of the combination. if we do not achieve the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions or other strategic activities, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, and we may not enhance stockholder value by engaging in these transactions. we are subject to various laws, regulations, policies and standards. our business may suffer as a result of existing, or new or amended, laws, regulations, policies or standards and/or our failure or inability to comply with laws, regulations, policies or standards. our business, products and services, and those of our customers and licensees, are subject to various laws and regulations globally, as well as government policies and the specifications of international, national and regional communications standards bodies. compliance with existing laws, regulations, policies and standards, the adoption of new laws, regulations, policies or standards, changes in the interpretation of existing laws, regulations, policies or standards, changes in the regulation of our activities by a government or standards body and/or rulings in court, regulatory, administrative or other proceedings relating to such laws, regulations, policies or standards, including, among others, those affecting licensing practices, competitive business practices, the use of our technology or products, protection of intellectual property, trade, foreign currency, investments or loans, spectrum availability and license issuance, adoption of standards, the provision of device subsidies by wireless operators to their customers, taxation, export control, privacy and data protection, environmental protection, health and safety, labor and employment, human rights, corporate governance, public disclosure or business conduct could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. government policies, particularly in china, that restrict the timing of funds that may flow out of a country may impact the timing of our receipt of payments from our customers and/or licensees in such country, which may negatively impact our cash flows. delays in government approvals or other governmental activities that could result from, among others, a decrease in or a lack of funding for certain agencies or branches of the government and/or political changes, could result in our incurring higher costs, could negatively impact our ability to timely consummate strategic transactions and/or could have other negative impacts on our business and the businesses of our customers and licensees. national, state and local environmental laws and regulations affect our operations around the world. these laws may make it more expensive to manufacture, have manufactured and sell products, and our costs could increase if our vendors (e.g., suppliers, third-party manufacturers or utility companies) pass on their costs to us. we are also subject to laws and regulations impacting the manufacturing operations we acquired through our rf360 holdings joint venture. see the risk factor entitled there are numerous risks associated with our operation and control of manufacturing facilities we acquired through the formation of our joint venture with tdk, rf360 holdings, including high fixed costs, environmental compliance and liability, exposure to natural disasters, timely supply of equipment and materials and manufacturing difficulties. regulations in the united states require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country (collectively, the covered 31 countries), or were from recycled or scrap sources. other countries or regions may impose similar requirements in the future. the verification and reporting requirements, in addition to customer demands for conflict free sourcing, impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products. further, if we are unable to determine that the conflict minerals used in our products do not directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the covered countries, we may face challenges with our customers that place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed. similarly, other laws and regulations have been adopted or proposed that require additional transparency regarding the employment practices of our suppliers, and any failure to maintain responsible sourcing practices could also adversely affect our relationships with customers and our reputation. laws, regulations, policies and standards are complex and changing and may create uncertainty regarding compliance. laws, regulations, policies and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases, and their application in practice may evolve over time. as a result, our efforts to comply may fail, particularly if there is ambiguity as to how they should be applied in practice. failure to comply with any law, regulation, policy or standard may adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or cash flows. new laws, regulations, policies and standards or evolving interpretations of legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and/or procedures and may divert management time and attention to compliance activities. our use of open source software may harm our business. certain of our software and our suppliers' software may contain or may be derived from open source software, and we have seen, and believe we will continue to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including software associated with our integrated circuit products, that incorporate open source software elements and operate in an open source environment, which, under certain open source licenses, may offer accessibility to a portion of a product's source code and may expose related intellectual property to adverse licensing conditions. licensing of such software may impose certain obligations on us if we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. for example, these obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to our customers in a manner that allows them to make such source code available to their customers or license such derivative works under a particular type of license that is different than what we customarily use to license our software. developing open source products, while adequately protecting the intellectual property rights upon which our licensing business depends, may prove burdensome and time-consuming under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage, and we may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. also, our use and our customers' use of open source software may subject our products and our customers' products to governmental scrutiny and delays in product certification, which could cause customers to view our products as less desirable than our competitors' products. while we believe we have taken appropriate steps and employ adequate controls to protect our intellectual property rights, our use of open source software presents risks that could have an adverse effect on these rights and on our business. our stock price, earnings and the fair value of our investments are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market downturns. our stock price and earnings have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock and/or earnings include those identified throughout this risk factors section, volatility of the stock market in general and technology-based companies in particular, announcements concerning us, our suppliers, our competitors or our customers or licensees and variations between our actual financial results or guidance and expectations of securities analysts or investors, among others. further, increased volatility in the financial markets and/or overall economic conditions may reduce the amounts that we realize in the future on our cash equivalents and/or marketable securities and may reduce our earnings as a result of any impairment charges that we record to reduce recorded values of marketable securities to their fair values. in the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. due to changes in our stock price, we are and may in the future be the target of securities litigation. securities litigation could result in substantial uninsured costs and divert management's attention and our resources. certain legal matters, including certain securities litigation brought against us, are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. we maintain an extensive investment portfolio of varied holdings, which are generally classified as available-for-sale and are therefore recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at fair value, with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. the fair values of our investments are subject to fluctuation based primarily on market price volatility, as well as the underlying operations of the associated investment, among other things. if the fair value of such investments decreases below their cost basis, as some of our previous investments have, we may be required in certain circumstances to recognize a loss in our results of operations. the sensitivity of and risks associated with 32 the market value of our investment portfolio are described more fully in this annual report in part ii, item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. there are risks associated with our indebtedness. our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur, including in connection with our proposed acquisition of nxp, may have negative consequences on our business, including, among others: requiring us to use cash to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends or other general corporate and other purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and/or increasing our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations to the extent a portion of our debt has variable interest rates. our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which is subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors, including factors which negatively impact our cash flows, such as licensees withholding some or all of the royalty payments they owe to us or paying fines in connection with regulatory investigations, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to, among other things: repatriate funds to the united states at substantial tax cost; refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures; or sell selected assets. such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. in addition, any such refinancing, restructuring or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all, and if prevailing interest rates at the time of any such refinancing and/or restructuring are higher than our current rates, interest expense related to such refinancing and/or restructuring would increase. if there are adverse changes in the ratings assigned to our debt securities by credit rating agencies, our borrowing costs, our ability to access debt in the future and/or the terms of such debt could be adversely affected. our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches or other misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary or confidential information. attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are increasingly more sophisticated. these attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks, including those in our manufacturing operations, and impersonating authorized users, among others. in addition, employees and former employees, in particular former employees who become employees of our competitors, customers or licensees, may misappropriate, use, publish or provide to our competitors, customers or licensees our intellectual property and/or proprietary or confidential business information. we seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. the theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or proprietary or confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives and/or otherwise adversely affect our business. to the extent any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers' or licensees' proprietary or confidential information, we may incur liability. we expect to continue to devote significant resources to the security of our information technology systems. potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including singapore where our qct segment's non-united states headquarters is located. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. we regularly are subject to examination of our tax returns and reports by taxing authorities in the united states federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions, most notably in countries where we earn a routine return and the tax authorities believe substantial value-add activities are performed. our current examinations are at various stages with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds. we continually assess the likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjust the income tax provision, income taxes payable and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts give rise to a revision become known. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable at september 24, 2017, the final determination of tax audits and any related legal proceedings could materially differ from amounts reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. in such case, our income tax provision, results of operations and/or cash flows in the period or periods in which that determination is made could be negatively affected. we have tax incentives in singapore provided that we meet specified employment and other criteria, and as a result of the expiration of these incentives, our singapore tax rate increased in fiscal 2017 and is expected to increase again in fiscal 33 2027. if we do not meet the criteria required to retain such incentives, our singapore tax rate could increase prior to fiscal 2027, and our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. tax rules may change in a manner that adversely affects our future reported results of operations or the way we conduct our business. for example, we consider the operating earnings of certain non-united states subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside the united states based on our current needs for those earnings to be reinvested offshore as well as estimates that future domestic cash generated from operations and/or borrowings will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs for the foreseeable future. no provision has been made for united states federal, state or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries. our future results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected if tax rules regarding unrepatriated earnings change, if domestic cash needs require us to repatriate foreign earnings, if the shares of these foreign subsidiaries were sold or otherwise transferred or if the united states international tax rules change as part of comprehensive tax reform or other tax legislation. further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting (beps) project that was undertaken by the organization for economic co-operation and development (oecd). the oecd, which represents a coalition of member countries, recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles related to transfer pricing. these changes, if adopted by countries, could increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes, results of operations and/or cash flow. we have not yet determined what changes, if any, may be needed to our operations or structure to address beps. if our effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the united states or singapore, our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition could be adversely affected. global, regional or local economic conditions that impact the mobile communications industry or the other industries in which we operate could negatively affect the demand for our products and services and our customers' or licensees' products and services, which may negatively affect our revenues. a decline in global, regional or local economic conditions or a slow-down in economic growth, particularly in geographic regions with high concentrations of wireless voice and data users or high concentrations of our customers or licensees, could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products and services of our customers or licensees, particularly equipment manufacturers or others in the wireless communications industry who buy their products, such as wireless operators. any prolonged economic downturn may result in a decrease in demand for our products or technologies; the insolvency of key suppliers, customers or licensees; delays in reporting and/or payments from our licensees and/or customers; failures by counterparties; and negative effects on wireless device inventories. in addition, our customers' ability to purchase or pay for our products and services and network operators' ability to upgrade their wireless networks could be adversely affected by economic conditions, leading to a reduction, cancelation or delay of orders for our products or services. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel, and on our ability to continue to identify, attract, retain and motivate them. implementing our business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, as our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. the market for employees in our industry is extremely competitive. further, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the united states, making the pool of available talent even smaller. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our business may be harmed. currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues, harm our ability to collect receivables or increase the u.s. dollar cost of our products. our customers sell their products throughout the world in various currencies. our consolidated revenues from international customers and licensees as a percentage of our total revenues were greater than 90% in each of the last three fiscal years. adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business, revenues, results of operations and/or cash flows due to a number of factors, including, among others: our products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold outside the united states may become less price-competitive, which may result in reduced demand for those products and/or downward pressure on average selling prices; certain of our revenues, such as royalties, that are derived from licensee or customer sales denominated in foreign currencies could decrease; 34 our foreign suppliers may raise their prices if they are impacted by currency fluctuations, resulting in higher than expected costs and lower margins; certain of our costs that are derived from supply contracts denominated in foreign currencies could increase; and/or foreign exchange hedging transactions that we engage in to reduce the impact of currency fluctuations may require the payment of structuring fees, limit the u.s. dollar value of royalties from licensees' sales that are denominated in foreign currencies, cause earnings volatility if the hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting and expose us to counterparty risk if the counterparty fails to perform. failures in our products or services or in the products or services of our customers or licensees, including those resulting from security vulnerabilities, defects or errors, could harm our business. the use of devices containing our products to access untrusted content creates a risk of exposing the system software in those devices to viral or malicious attacks. while we continue to focus on this issue and are taking measures to safeguard our products from cybersecurity threats, device capabilities continue to evolve, enabling more data and processes, such as computing, and increasing the risk of security failures. further, our products are inherently complex and may contain defects or errors that are detected only when the products are in use. the design process interface in new domains of technology and the migration to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes are complex and add risk to manufacturing yields and reliability. further, manufacturing, testing, marketing and use of our products and those of our customers and licensees entail the risk of product liability. because our products and services are responsible for critical functions in our customers' products and/or networks, security failures, defects or errors in our products or services could have an adverse impact on us, on our customers and/or on the end users of our customers' products. such adverse impact could include product liability claims or recalls, write-offs of our inventories, property, plant and equipment and/or intangible assets; unfavorable purchase commitments; a shift of business to our competitors; a decrease in demand for connected devices and wireless services; damage to our reputation and to our customer relationships; and other financial liability or harm to our business. further, security failures, defects or errors in the products of our customers or licensees could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and/or cash flows due to a delay or decrease in demand for our products or services generally, and our premium-tier products in particular, among other factors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. there are risks associated with our indebtedness. our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur, including in connection with our proposed acquisition of nxp, may have negative consequences on our business, including, among others: requiring us to use cash to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends or other general corporate and other purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and/or increasing our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations to the extent a portion of our debt has variable interest rates. our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which is subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors, including factors which negatively impact our cash flows, such as licensees withholding some or all of the royalty payments they owe to us or paying fines in connection with regulatory investigations, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to, among other things: repatriate funds to the united states at substantial tax cost; refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures; or sell selected assets. such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. in addition, any such refinancing, restructuring or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all, and if prevailing interest rates at the time of any such refinancing and/or restructuring are higher than our current rates, interest expense related to such refinancing and/or restructuring would increase. if there are adverse changes in the ratings assigned to our debt securities by credit rating agencies, our borrowing costs, our ability to access debt in the future and/or the terms of such debt could be adversely affected. our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches or other misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary or confidential information. attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are increasingly more sophisticated. these attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks, including those in our manufacturing operations, and impersonating authorized users, among others. in addition, employees and former employees, in particular former employees who become employees of our competitors, customers or licensees, may misappropriate, use, publish or provide to our competitors, customers or licensees our intellectual property and/or proprietary or confidential business information. we seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. the theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or proprietary or confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives and/or otherwise adversely affect our business. to the extent any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers' or licensees' proprietary or confidential information, we may incur liability. we expect to continue to devote significant resources to the security of our information technology systems. potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including singapore where our qct segment's non-united states headquarters is located. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. we regularly are subject to examination of our tax returns and reports by taxing authorities in the united states federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions, most notably in countries where we earn a routine return and the tax authorities believe substantial value-add activities are performed. our current examinations are at various stages with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds. we continually assess the likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjust the income tax provision, income taxes payable and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts give rise to a revision become known. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable at september 24, 2017, the final determination of tax audits and any related legal proceedings could materially differ from amounts reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. in such case, our income tax provision, results of operations and/or cash flows in the period or periods in which that determination is made could be negatively affected. we have tax incentives in singapore provided that we meet specified employment and other criteria, and as a result of the expiration of these incentives, our singapore tax rate increased in fiscal 2017 and is expected to increase again in fiscal 33 2027. if we do not meet the criteria required to retain such incentives, our singapore tax rate could increase prior to fiscal 2027, and our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. tax rules may change in a manner that adversely affects our future reported results of operations or the way we conduct our business. for example, we consider the operating earnings of certain non-united states subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside the united states based on our current needs for those earnings to be reinvested offshore as well as estimates that future domestic cash generated from operations and/or borrowings will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs for the foreseeable future. no provision has been made for united states federal, state or foreign taxes that may result from future remittances of the undistributed earnings of these foreign subsidiaries. our future results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected if tax rules regarding unrepatriated earnings change, if domestic cash needs require us to repatriate foreign earnings, if the shares of these foreign subsidiaries were sold or otherwise transferred or if the united states international tax rules change as part of comprehensive tax reform or other tax legislation. further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting (beps) project that was undertaken by the organization for economic co-operation and development (oecd). the oecd, which represents a coalition of member countries, recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles related to transfer pricing. these changes, if adopted by countries, could increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes, results of operations and/or cash flow. we have not yet determined what changes, if any, may be needed to our operations or structure to address beps. if our effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the united states or singapore, our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition could be adversely affected. global, regional or local economic conditions that impact the mobile communications industry or the other industries in which we operate could negatively affect the demand for our products and services and our customers' or licensees' products and services, which may negatively affect our revenues. a decline in global, regional or local economic conditions or a slow-down in economic growth, particularly in geographic regions with high concentrations of wireless voice and data users or high concentrations of our customers or licensees, could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products and services of our customers or licensees, particularly equipment manufacturers or others in the wireless communications industry who buy their products, such as wireless operators. any prolonged economic downturn may result in a decrease in demand for our products or technologies; the insolvency of key suppliers, customers or licensees; delays in reporting and/or payments from our licensees and/or customers; failures by counterparties; and negative effects on wireless device inventories. in addition, our customers' ability to purchase or pay for our products and services and network operators' ability to upgrade their wireless networks could be adversely affected by economic conditions, leading to a reduction, cancelation or delay of orders for our products or services. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel, and on our ability to continue to identify, attract, retain and motivate them. implementing our business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, as our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. the market for employees in our industry is extremely competitive. further, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the united states, making the pool of available talent even smaller. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our business may be harmed. currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues, harm our ability to collect receivables or increase the u.s. dollar cost of our products. our customers sell their products throughout the world in various currencies. our consolidated revenues from international customers and licensees as a percentage of our total revenues were greater than 90% in each of the last three fiscal years. adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business, revenues, results of operations and/or cash flows due to a number of factors, including, among others: our products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold outside the united states may become less price-competitive, which may result in reduced demand for those products and/or downward pressure on average selling prices; certain of our revenues, such as royalties, that are derived from licensee or customer sales denominated in foreign currencies could decrease; 34 our foreign suppliers may raise their prices if they are impacted by currency fluctuations, resulting in higher than expected costs and lower margins; certain of our costs that are derived from supply contracts denominated in foreign currencies could increase; and/or foreign exchange hedging transactions that we engage in to reduce the impact of currency fluctuations may require the payment of structuring fees, limit the u.s. dollar value of royalties from licensees' sales that are denominated in foreign currencies, cause earnings volatility if the hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting and expose us to counterparty risk if the counterparty fails to perform. failures in our products or services or in the products or services of our customers or licensees, including those resulting from security vulnerabilities, defects or errors, could harm our business. the use of devices containing our products to access untrusted content creates a risk of exposing the system software in those devices to viral or malicious attacks. while we continue to focus on this issue and are taking measures to safeguard our products from cybersecurity threats, device capabilities continue to evolve, enabling more data and processes, such as computing, and increasing the risk of security failures. further, our products are inherently complex and may contain defects or errors that are detected only when the products are in use. the design process interface in new domains of technology and the migration to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes are complex and add risk to manufacturing yields and reliability. further, manufacturing, testing, marketing and use of our products and those of our customers and licensees entail the risk of product liability. because our products and services are responsible for critical functions in our customers' products and/or networks, security failures, defects or errors in our products or services could have an adverse impact on us, on our customers and/or on the end users of our customers' products. such adverse impact could include product liability claims or recalls, write-offs of our inventories, property, plant and equipment and/or intangible assets; unfavorable purchase commitments; a shift of business to our competitors; a decrease in demand for connected devices and wireless services; damage to our reputation and to our customer relationships; and other financial liability or harm to our business. further, security failures, defects or errors in the products of our customers or licensees could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and/or cash flows due to a delay or decrease in demand for our products or services generally, and our premium-tier products in particular, among other factors. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties at september 24, 2017 , we occupied the following facilities (square footage in millions): united states other countries total owned facilities 4.6 0.2 4.8 leased facilities 1.6 4.6 6.2 total 6.2 4.8 11.0 our headquarters as well as certain research and development, manufacturing and network management hub operations are located in san diego, california. additionally, our qct segment's non-united states headquarters is located in singapore. our consolidated rf360 holdings joint venture with tdk leases manufacturing facilities in germany, china and singapore. we also own and lease properties around the world for use as sales and administrative offices and research and development centers, primarily in the united states and india. our facility leases expire at varying dates through 2025, not including renewals that would be at our option. several other owned and leased facilities are under construction totaling approximately 128,000 additional square feet. we believe that our facilities are suitable and adequate for our present purposes and that the productive capacity in facilities that are not under construction is substantially utilized. we do not identify or allocate facilities by operating segment. additional information on net property, plant and equipment by geography is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 8. segment information. in the future, we may need to purchase, build or lease additional facilities to meet the requirements projected in our long-term business plan. 35 item 3. legal and regulatory proceedings information regarding legal and regulatory proceedings is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. we are also engaged in numerous other legal actions arising in the ordinary course of our business and, while there can be no assurance, we believe that the ultimate outcome of these other legal actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. 36 part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities market information and dividends our common stock is traded on the nasdaq global select market (nasdaq) under the symbol qcom. the following table sets forth the range of high and low sales prices of our common stock as reported by nasdaq and cash dividends announced per share of common stock, for the fiscal periods presented. quotations of our stock price represent inter-dealer prices without retail markup, markdown or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. high ($) low ($) dividends ($) 2017 first quarter 71.62 61.86 0.53 second quarter 67.58 52.37 0.53 third quarter 59.89 51.05 0.57 fourth quarter 57.69 48.92 0.57 2016 first quarter 61.19 45.93 0.48 second quarter 53.52 42.24 0.48 third quarter 56.27 49.67 0.53 fourth quarter 64.00 50.84 0.53 at october 30, 2017 , there were 7,310 holders of record of our common stock. on october 30, 2017 , the last sale price reported on the nasdaq for our common stock was $54.66 per share. on october 10, 2017 , we announced a cash dividend of $0.57 per share on our common stock, payable on december 15, 2017 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on november 29, 2017 . we intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends, subject to capital availability and our view that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders. future dividends may be affected by, among other items, our views on potential future capital requirements, including those relating to research and development, creation and expansion of sales distribution channels, investments and acquisitions, legal risks, withholding of payments by one or more of our significant licensees and/or customers, fines by government agencies and/or adverse rulings by a court or arbitrator in a legal matter, stock repurchase programs, debt issuance, changes in federal and state income tax law and changes to our business model. share-based compensation we primarily issue restricted stock units under our equity compensation plans, which are part of a broad-based, long-term retention program that is intended to attract and retain talented employees and directors and align stockholder and employee interests. our 2016 long-term incentive plan (2016 plan) provides for the grant of both incentive and nonstatutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, unrestricted stock, restricted stock units, performance units, performance shares, deferred compensation awards and other stock-based awards. restricted stock units generally vest over periods of three years from the date of grant. stock options vest over periods not exceeding five years and are exercisable for up to ten years from the grant date. the board of directors may amend or terminate the 2016 plan at any time, with certain amendments also requiring stockholder approval. additional information regarding our share-based compensation plans and plan activity for fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 5. employee benefit plans and additional information regarding our share-based compensation plans for fiscal 2017 will be provided in our 2018 proxy statement under the heading equity compensation plan information. issuer purchases of equity securities issuer purchases of equity securities during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017 were: 37 total number of shares purchased average price paid per share (1) total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs (2) (in thousands) (in thousands) (in millions) june 26, 2017 to july 23, 2017 $ $ 1,959 july 24, 2017 to august 20, 2017 2,854 52.54 2,854 1,809 august 21, 2017 to september 24, 2017 3,268 50.47 3,268 1,644 total 6,122 6,122 (1) average price paid per share excludes cash paid for commissions. (2) on march 9, 2015 , we announced a repurchase program authorizing us to repurchase up to $15 billion of our common stock. at september 24, 2017 , $1.6 billion remained authorized for repurchase. the stock repurchase program has no expiration date. 38 item 6. selected financial data the following data should be read in conjunction with the annual consolidated financial statements, related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere herein. years ended (1) september 24, 2017 september 25, 2016 september 27, 2015 september 28, 2014 september 29, 2013 (in millions, except per share data) statement of operations data: revenues $ 22,291 $ 23,554 $ 25,281 $ 26,487 $ 24,866 operating income 2,614 6,495 5,776 7,550 7,230 income from continuing operations (2) 2,465 5,702 5,268 7,534 6,845 discontinued operations, net of income taxes 430 net income attributable to qualcomm 2,466 5,705 5,271 7,967 6,853 per share data: basic earnings per share attributable to qualcomm: continuing operations $ 1.67 $ 3.84 $ 3.26 $ 4.48 $ 3.99 discontinued operations 0.25 net income 1.67 3.84 3.26 4.73 3.99 diluted earnings per share attributable to qualcomm: continuing operations 1.65 3.81 3.22 4.40 3.91 discontinued operations 0.25 net income 1.65 3.81 3.22 4.65 3.91 dividends per share announced 2.20 2.02 1.80 1.54 1.20 balance sheet data: cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 38,578 $ 32,350 $ 30,947 $ 32,022 $ 29,406 total assets 65,486 52,359 50,796 48,574 45,516 short-term debt (3) 2,495 1,749 1,000 long-term debt (4) 19,398 10,008 9,969 other long-term liabilities (5) 2,432 895 817 428 550 total stockholders' equity 30,746 31,768 31,414 39,166 36,087 (1) our fiscal year ends on the last sunday in september. the fiscal years ended september 24, 2017 , september 25, 2016 , september 27, 2015 , september 28, 2014 and september 29, 2013 each included 52 weeks. (2) revenues in fiscal 2017 were negatively impacted by actions taken by apple and its contract manufacturers as well as the previously disclosed dispute with another licensee, who did not fully report or fully pay royalties due in the last three quarters of fiscal 2017, as well as the $940 million reduction to revenues recorded related to the blackberry arbitration. operating income was further negatively impacted by $927 million and $778 million in charges related to the fines imposed by the kftc and the tftc, respectively. (3) short-term debt was comprised of outstanding commercial paper and, in fiscal 2017, the current portion of long-term debt. (4) long-term debt was comprised of floating- and fixed-rate notes. (5) other long-term liabilities in this balance sheet data exclude unearned revenues. 39 item 7. management ' discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. actual results may differ materially from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks described in part i, item 1a. risk factors and elsewhere in this annual report. the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in part ii, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk marketable securities we have made investments in marketable equity securities of companies of varying size, style, industry and geography and changes in investment allocations may affect the price volatility of our investments. on october 27, 2016, we announced a definitive agreement under which qualcomm river holdings will acquire nxp for estimated total cash consideration to be paid to nxp's shareholders of $38 billion . we intend to fund the transaction with cash held by our foreign entities as well as funds raised in connection with our may 2017 debt issuance, which will result in the use of a substantial portion of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, as well as committed financing through a term loan facility, which is expected to be drawn on at the close of the nxp transaction. as a result, during fiscal 2017, we divested a substantial portion of our marketable securities portfolio, including our equity securities and fund shares. equity price risk. the recorded values of our marketable equity securities and fund shares decreased to $36 million at september 24, 2017 from $1.7 billion at september 25, 2016 . a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and fund shares at september 24, 2017 would have caused a negligible decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities. a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities and fund shares at september 25, 2016 would have caused a decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities of $175 million. at september 24, 2017 , there were no gross unrealized losses of our marketable equity securities and fund shares. interest rate risk. we invest a portion of our cash in a number of diversified fixed- and floating-rate securities consisting of cash equivalents, marketable debt securities, debt funds and time deposits that are subject to interest rate risk. changes in the general level of interest rates can affect the fair value of our investment portfolio. if interest rates in the general economy were to rise, our holdings could lose value. as a result of divesting a substantial portion of our marketable securities portfolio and changes in portfolio allocation, the fair value of our investment portfolio is subject to lower interest rate risk. at september 24, 2017 , a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 basis points across the entire yield curve on our holdings would have resulted in a decrease of $26 million in the fair value of our holdings. at september 25, 2016 , a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 basis points across the entire yield curve on our holdings would have resulted in a decrease of $501 million in the fair value of our holdings. other investments equity price risk. we hold investments in non-marketable equity instruments in privately held companies that may be impacted by equity price risks. volatility in the equity markets could negatively affect our investees' ability to raise additional capital as well as our ability to realize value from our investments through initial public offerings, mergers and private sales. consequently, we could incur other-than-temporary impairment losses or realized losses on all or a part of the values of our non-marketable equity investments. at september 24, 2017 , the aggregate carrying value of our non-marketable equity investments was $982 million and was included in other noncurrent assets. at september 25, 2016 , the aggregate carrying value of our non-marketable equity investments was $855 million and was included in other noncurrent assets. debt and interest rate swap agreements interest rate risk. in may 2017, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $11.0 billion of unsecured floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturity dates. in 2015, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $10.0 billion of unsecured floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturity dates and entered into interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $3.0 billion to effectively convert certain fixed-rate interest payments into floating-rate payments. the interest rates on our floating-rate notes and interest rate swaps are based on libor. by issuing additional floating-rate notes in fiscal 2017, our assumed risks associated with variable interest rates based on libor have increased. at september 24, 2017 , a hypothetical increase in libor-based interest rates of 100 basis points would cause our interest expense to increase by $46 million on an annualized basis as it relates to our floating-rate notes and interest rate swap agreements. at september 25, 2016 , a hypothetical increase in libor-based interest rates of 100 basis points would have caused our interest expense to increase by $30 million on an annualized basis as it relates to our floating-rate notes and interest rate swap agreements. additionally, we have a commercial paper program that provides for the issuance of up to $5.0 billion of commercial paper. at september 24, 2017 , we had $999 million of commercial paper outstanding, with original maturities of less than 54 three months. changes in interest rates could affect the amounts of interest that we pay if we refinance the current outstanding commercial paper with new debt. additional information regarding our notes and related interest rate swap agreements and commercial paper program is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1. the company and its significant accounting policies and notes to consolidated financial statements, note 6. debt. foreign exchange risk we manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial counterparties. we utilize such derivative financial instruments for hedging or risk management purposes rather than for speculative purposes. counterparties to our derivative contracts are all major banking institutions. in the event of the financial insolvency or distress of a counterparty to our derivative financial instruments, we may be unable to settle transactions if the counterparty does not provide us with sufficient collateral to secure its net settlement obligations to us, which could have a negative impact on our results. a description of our foreign currency accounting policies is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1. the company and its significant accounting policies. at september 24, 2017 , our net liability related to foreign currency options designated as hedges of foreign currency risk on royalties earned from certain licensees was $15 million. if our forecasted royalty revenues for currencies in which we hedge were to decline by 20% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in our hedged foreign currency, we would not incur a loss as our hedge positions would continue to be fully effective. at september 24, 2017 , our net asset related to foreign currency option and forward contracts designated as hedges of foreign currency risk on certain operating expenditure transactions was negligible. if our forecasted operating expenditures for currencies in which we hedge were to decline by 20% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in our hedged foreign currency, we would incur a negligible loss. financial assets and liabilities held by consolidated subsidiaries that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. as a global company, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. as a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. while we may hedge certain transactions with non-united states customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. at september 24, 2017 , our net liability related to foreign currency option and forward contracts not designated as hedging instruments used to manage foreign currency risk on certain receivables and payables was negligible. if the foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in our hedged foreign currency, we would not incur a loss as the change in the fair value of the foreign currency option and forward contracts would be offset by the change in fair value of the related receivables and payables being economically hedged. our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate the risks discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks.risk factors 18 risk factors below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this annual report. readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report. we undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this annual report. readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this annual report, which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. part i item 1. business we incorporated in california in 1985 and reincorporated in delaware in 1991. we operate and report using a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the last sunday in september. our 52-week fiscal years consist of four equal fiscal quarters of 13 weeks each, and our 53-week fiscal years consist of three 13-week fiscal quarters and one 14-week fiscal quarter. the financial results for our 53-week fiscal years and our 14-week fiscal quarters will not be exactly comparable to our 52-week fiscal years and our 13-week fiscal quarters. the fiscal year ended september 30, 2018 included 53 weeks. the fiscal years ended september 24, 2017 and september 25, 2016 included 52 weeks. overview we are a global leader in the development and commercialization of foundational technologies and products used in mobile devices and other wireless products, including network equipment, broadband gateway equipment and consumer electronic devices. our inventions helped power the growth in smartphones, which have connected billions of people. we are a pioneer in 3g (third generation) and 4g (fourth generation) wireless technologies and are now a leader in 5g (fifth generation) wireless technologies to empower a new era of intelligent, connected devices. our technologies and products are also used in industry segments and applications beyond mobile, including automotive, iot (internet of things), networking, computing and ai (artificial intelligence), such as machine learning, allowing more devices to connect and communicate with each other in new ways. we derive revenues principally from sales of integrated circuit products and licensing our intellectual property, including patents, software and other rights. the foundational technologies we invent help power the modern mobile experience, impacting how the world connects, computes and communicates. we share these inventions broadly through our licensing program, ensuring wide ecosystem access to technologies at the core of mobile innovation, and through the sale of our wireless chipset platforms and other products, which accelerates consumer adoption of experiences empowered by these inventions. as a company, we collaborate across the ecosystem, including manufacturers, operators, developers, governments and industry standards organizations, to create a global environment to drive continued progress and growth. we have a long history of driving innovation. we played a leading role in developing the inventions that serve as the foundation for 3g and 4g wireless technologies, and which serve as the basis for 5g wireless technologies. this includes the cdma (code division multiple access) and ofdma (orthogonal frequency division multiple access) families of technologies, with the latter encompassing lte (long term evolution), which, along with tdma (time division multiple access), are the primary digital technologies currently used to transmit a wireless device user's voice or data over radio waves using a public cellular wireless network. we own significant intellectual property, including patents, patent applications and trade secrets, applicable to products that implement any version of cdma and ofdma. companies in the mobile communications industry generally recognize that any company seeking to develop, manufacture and/or sell 4 subscriber units or infrastructure equipment that use cdma-based and/or ofdma-based technologies will require a license or other rights to use our patents. we also develop and commercialize numerous other key technologies used in handsets and other wireless devices that contribute to end-user demand, and we own substantial intellectual property related to these technologies. some of these inventions were contributed to and are being commercialized as industry standards, such as certain video and audio codecs, wi-fi, gps (global positioning system) and bluetooth. other technologies widely used by wireless devices that we have developed are not related to any industry standards, such as operating systems, user interfaces, graphics and camera processing functionality, rf (radio frequency), rf front-end and antenna design and application processor architectures. our patents cover a wide range of technologies across the entire wireless system (including wireless devices and infrastructure equipment) and not just what is embodied in chipsets. we are organized on the basis of products and services and have three reportable segments. we conduct business primarily through our qct (qualcomm cdma technologies) semiconductor business and our qtl (qualcomm technology licensing) licensing business. qct develops and supplies integrated circuits (also known as chips or chipsets) and system software based on cdma, ofdma and other technologies for use in mobile devices, wireless networks, devices used in iot, broadband gateway equipment, consumer electronic devices and automotive telematics and infotainment systems. qtl grants licenses to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products. our qsi (qualcomm strategic initiatives) reportable segment makes strategic investments. we also have nonreportable segments, including our cyber security solutions (formerly qualcomm government technologies or qgov), mobile health, small cells and other wireless technology and service initiatives. industry trends the mobile industry has experienced tremendous growth for more than 20 years, growing from less than 60 million global connections in 1994 (wcis+, october 2017) to approximately 7.9 billion global connections estimated as of september 30, 2018 (gsma intelligence, november 2018). as the largest technology platform in the world, mobile has changed the way we connect, compute and communicate with one another. the scale and pace of innovation in mobile, especially around connectivity and computing capabilities, is also impacting industries beyond wireless, empowering new services, new business models and new experiences. our inventions and licensing program have been integral to, and provided foundational technologies for, the evolution of the mobile industry. extending connectivity. 3g/4g multimode mobile broadband technology has been a key growth driver of mobile, providing users with fast, reliable, always-on connectivity. estimated as of september 30, 2018, there were approximately 5.5 billion 3g/4g connections globally (cdma-based, ofdma-based and cdma/ofdma multimode) representing nearly 69% of total mobile connections (gsma intelligence, november 2018). by 2022, global 3g/4g connections are projected to reach 7.2 billion, with approximately 87% of these connections coming from emerging regions (including china) (gsma intelligence, november 2018). 3g/4g multimode mobile broadband continues to be an important platform for extending the reach and potential of the internet. in 2010, the number of broadband connections using mobile technology surpassed those using fixed technologies (gsma intelligence, november 2018), making mobile networks the primary method of accessing the internet for many people around the world. this is further amplified in emerging regions, where, as of september 30, 2018, 3g/4g mobile broadband connections are estimated to be approximately seven times the number of fixed internet household connections (gsma intelligence november 2018 and pt june 2018). in china, 3g/4g lte multimode services have experienced strong adoption since being launched in the fourth quarter of calendar 2013, with more than 1.3 billion connections estimated as of september 30, 2018 (gsma intelligence, november 2018). in india, mobile operators continue to expand their 4g multimode services, providing consumers with the benefits of advanced mobile broadband connectivity while creating new opportunities for device manufacturers and other members of the mobile ecosystem. 3g/4g mobile broadband may be the first and, in many cases, the only way that people in these regions access the internet. looking ahead, we expect to continue to be a leader in the next generation of wireless technology, known as 5g. initial commercial deployments of 5g, which will focus on enhanced mobile broadband services, are expected to begin in calendar 2019. in june 2018, 3gpp (the 3rd generation partnership project), an industry standards development organization, completed the first global specifications for 5g nr (new radio) (release 15). the 5g nr standard is expected to provide a unified connectivity network for all spectrum and service types based on ofdm (orthogonal frequency division multiplexing) technology, and it is designed to support faster data rates, lower network latency and wider bandwidths of spectrum. 5g nr is expected to enhance mobile broadband services, including ultra-high definition (4k) video streaming and 5 augmented and virtual reality applications, with multi-gigabit speeds and to bring more capacity, which may enable operators to offer new unlimited mobile data plans. incorporating many of the innovations developed for 4g, future generations of 5g (3gpp release 16 and beyond) are expected to expand 5g nr technologies to new industries beyond traditional cellular communications that will create new business models and new services, such as autonomous vehicles and artificial intelligence-based platforms designed to bring greater autonomy to manufacturing and other industrial applications (known as industrial iot), through ultra-reliable, ultra-low latency communication links; and connecting a significant number of things (also known as iot, including the connected home, smart cities, wearables and voice and music devices), with connectivity designed to meet ultra-low power, complexity and cost requirements. we expect these future generations of 5g, which build on the various 3g and 4g features addressing iot, will further contribute to the trend of enabling cellular connectivity to non-handset categories of devices. by 2025, global 5g connections are projected to reach 1.3 billion worldwide, representing approximately 15% of total cellular connections (gsma intelligence, november 2018). most 5g devices are expected to include multimode support for 3g, 4g and wi-fi, enabling service continuity where 5g has yet to be deployed and simultaneous connectivity across 4g technology, while also allowing mobile operators to utilize current network deployments. at the same time, 4g is expected to continue to evolve in parallel with the development of 5g and become fundamental to many of the key 5g technologies (through multi-connectivity), such as support for unlicensed spectrum, gigabit lte user data rates and lte iot to meet the needs of ultra-low power, complexity and cost applications. the first phase of 5g networks is expected to support mobile broadband services for the smartphone form factor both in lower spectrum bands below 6 ghz as well as higher bands above 6 ghz, including millimeter wave (mmwave). we continue to work closely with mobile operators and infrastructure companies around the world on 5g nr demonstrations and trials in preparation for commercial network launches. we are also enabling 5g commercialization with our 5g modem family compliant with the 3gpp-based 5g nr global system. as with previous generations of mobile networks, it will take time to proliferate new 5g networks. we expect that 4g lte will continue to grow and serve as the anchor of the 5g mobile experience (through multi-connectivity) for many years to come. growth in smartphones. smartphone adoption continues to expand globally, fueled by fast 3g/4g lte multimode connectivity, powerful mobile processors, advanced multimedia features and enhanced location awareness capabilities, among others. in 2017, approximately 1.5 billion smartphones shipped globally, which is consistent year-over-year, with cumulative smartphone shipments between 2018 and 2022 projected to reach approximately 7.8 billion (idc quarterly mobile phone tracker, 2018q2). most of this growth is projected to happen in emerging regions (including china), where smartphones accounted for approximately 70% of total handset shipments in 2017 and are projected to reach approximately 84% in 2022 (idc quarterly mobile phone tracker, 2018q2). growth in smartphones has not only been driven by the success of premium-tier devices but also by the number of affordable handsets that are available in emerging regions, as well as the variety of flexible and affordable data plans being offered by mobile operators. consumer demand for new types of experiences empowered by 3g/4g lte connectivity, combined with the needs of mobile operators and device manufacturers to provide differentiated features and services, is driving continued innovation within the smartphone. as a result, the smartphone has become the go-to device for social networking, music, gaming, email and web browsing, among others. it is expected that 5g connectivity will drive further innovations within the smartphone and increase consumer demand by offering enhanced connectivity, which in turn will enable new applications. given its advanced capabilities and utility, the smartphone is replacing many traditional consumer electronics devices, including digital cameras, video cameras, standalone gps units and music players. we have been a leading contributor to this innovation across multiple technology dimensions, including connectivity, intelligence, camera, audio, video, sensors and security. transforming other industries. with their significant scale, rapid development cycles and highly integrated solutions, industries beyond mobile, including automotive, iot and computing, among others, are leveraging the same technology innovations found in today's leading smartphones to enhance existing products and services as well as to create new products and services. our inventions that contribute to the formation of advanced cellular technologies, such as 3g/4g and now 5g connectivity, are helping to drive this transformation. 5g is expected to further accelerate this transformation. for example, in the automotive industry, approximately 74% of new vehicles sold are projected to have cellular connectivity by 2025, representing an increase from 32% in 2017 (strategy analytics, october 2018). in addition, the installed base of iot devices is projected to grow more than 50% between 2018 and 2022 (abi research, august 2018). the proliferation of intelligent, connected things is also enabling new types of user experiences, as smartphones are able to interact with and control more of the objects around us. through the addition of embedded sensors and computer intelligence, connected things are able to collect and share data, providing users with contextually relevant information and further increasing the device's utility and value. 6 wireless technologies overview the growth in the use of wireless devices worldwide and the demand for data services and applications requires continuous innovation to further improve the user experience, support new services, increase network capacity, make use of different frequency bands and allow for dense network deployments. to meet these requirements, different wireless communications technologies continue to evolve. for nearly three decades, we have invested heavily in research and development to drive the evolution of wireless technologies, including cdma and ofdma. as a result, we have developed and acquired (and continue to develop and acquire) significant related intellectual property. this intellectual property has been incorporated into the most widely accepted and deployed cellular wireless communications technology standards, and we have licensed it to several hundred licensees, including leading wireless device and infrastructure manufacturers. cellular wireless technologies. relevant cellular wireless technologies can be grouped into the following categories. tdma-based. tdma (time division multiple access)-based technologies are characterized by their access method allowing several users to share the same frequency channel by dividing the signal into different time slots. most of these systems are classified as 2g (second generation) technology. the main examples of tdma-based technologies are gsm (deployed worldwide), is-136 (deployed in the americas) and personal digital cellular (pdc) (deployed in japan). the transition of wireless devices from 2g to 3g/4g technologies continued around the world with estimated 3g/4g connections up 16% year-over-year (gsma intelligence, november 2018). estimated as of september 30, 2018, there were approximately 2.4 billion gsm connections worldwide, representing approximately 30% of total cellular connections, down from 39% as of september 30, 2017 (gsma intelligence, november 2018). cdma-based. cdma-based technologies are characterized by their access method allowing several users to share the same frequency and time by allocating different orthogonal codes to individual users. most of the cdma-based technologies are classified as 3g technology. there are a number of variants of cdma-based technologies deployed around the world, in particular cdma2000, ev-do (evolution data optimized), wcdma (wideband cdma) and td-scdma (time division-synchronous cdma) (deployed exclusively in china). cdma-based technologies provide vastly improved capacity for voice and low-rate data services as compared to analog technologies and significant improvements over tdma-based technologies such as gsm. to date, these technologies have seen many revisions. new specifications continue to be defined by 3gpp. cdma technologies ushered in a significant increase in broadband data services that continue to grow globally. according to gsma intelligence estimates as of september 30, 2018, there were approximately 2.3 billion cdma-based connections worldwide, representing approximately 29% of total cellular connections, down year-over-year as consumers migrate to ofdma-based technologies. ofdma-based. ofdma-based technologies are characterized by their access method allowing several users to share the same frequency band and time by allocating different subcarriers to individual users. most of the ofdma-based technologies to be deployed through 2018 are classified as 4g technology. 5g will heavily leverage ofdm-based technologies. we continue to play a significant role in the development of lte, lte advanced and lte advanced pro, which are the predominant 4g technologies currently in use. lte is incorporated in 3gpp specifications starting from release 8 and uses ofdma in the downlink and single carrier fdma (sc-fdma) in the uplink. lte has two modes, fdd (frequency division duplex) and tdd (time division duplex), to support paired and unpaired spectrum, respectively, and continues to evolve as 3gpp defines new specifications. the principal benefit of lte is its ability to leverage a wide range of spectrum (bandwidths of up to 20 mhz or more through aggregation). lte is designed to seamlessly interwork with 3g through 3g/4g multimode devices. most lte devices rely on 3g for voice services across the network, as well as for ubiquitous data services outside the lte coverage area, and on 4g for data services inside the lte coverage area. lte's voice solution, volte (voice over lte), is being commercially deployed in a growing number of networks. lte advanced brings many more enhancements, including carrier aggregation, advanced antenna techniques and optimization for small cells. apart from improving the performance of existing networks, these releases also bring new enhancements under the umbrella of lte advanced pro to which we have been a significant contributor, including, lte direct for proximity-based device-to-device discovery, cellular vehicle-to-everything (c-v2x) communication, improved lte broadcast, optimizations of narrowband communications designed for iot (known as emtc and nb-iot) and the ability to use lte advanced in unlicensed spectrum (lte unlicensed) as well as in emerging shared spectrum bands in various regions (such as the citizens broadband radio service or cbrs in the united states). there will be multiple options for deploying lte unlicensed for different deployment scenarios. 7 lte-u, which relies on an lte control carrier based on 3gpp release 12, uses carrier aggregation to combine unlicensed and licensed spectrum in the downlink and has been introduced in early mobile operator deployments in the united states and evolves to licensed assisted access (laa). laa, introduced as part of 3gpp release 13, also aggregates unlicensed and licensed spectrum in both up and downlink and is being deployed globally by mobile operators. laa is a key technology for many operators with limited licensed spectrum to deliver gigabit lte speeds. there also have been ongoing efforts to make the interworking between lte and wi-fi more seamless and completely transparent to the users. further integration is achieved with lte wi-fi link aggregation (lwa), which will utilize existing and new carrier wi-fi deployments. according to gsma intelligence estimates as of september 30, 2018, there were approximately 3.2 billion global lte connections worldwide, representing approximately 40% of total cellular connections. according to the global mobile suppliers association (gsa), as of october 2018, more than 865 wireless operators have commercially deployed or started testing lte networks with 715 commercially launched in 208 countries, including 270 networks in 122 countries having commercially launched lte advanced networks featuring carrier aggregation (gsa, november 2018). as we look forward, the wireless industry is actively developing and commercializing 5g technologies. our inventions that serve as foundational technologies for 3g and 4g now also serve as foundational technologies for 5g. 5g is designed to transform the role of wireless technologies and incorporates advancements on 3g/4g features available today, including device-to-device capabilities and the use of all different types of spectrum (including licensed, unlicensed and shared spectrum). we continue to play a significant role in driving 5g from standardization to commercialization, including contributing to 3gpp standardization activities that are defining 5g nr and next generation core (ngc) standards and their continued evolution. 5g nr is incorporated in 3gpp specifications starting from release 15, which was completed in june 2018, and will be available in two architectural options: a non-standalone option where a data-only 5g nr link can be added to an existing 4g lte deployment leveraging the existing 4g lte core network; and a standalone option where 5g nr is deployed together with the 5g ngc network. the main advantages of 5g nr are its ability to target diverse services with very different technical requirements (from enhanced mobile broadband to massive iot to mission critical services), its utilization of diverse types of spectrum (from the low bands to millimeter bands) and its ability to support diverse types of deployment scenarios. predominant technological components of 5g nr include a scalable ofdm-based air interface with scalable ofdm numerology, a flexible slot-based framework with self-contained slot structure to address ultra-reliable, low-latency communication, new channel coding schemes to efficiently support large data blocks, multiple-input multiple-output (mimo) and mobile millimeter wave to significantly increase the data rate offered to users. like 3g and 4g lte, 5g nr will support carrier aggregation across spectrum bands, across fdd and tdd, across licensed and unlicensed spectrum, but 5g nr will also support dual connectivity across lte and 5g nr. a main benefit of 5g nr is its ability to take advantage of very wide channel bandwidth such as 800/400/100 mhz (to be compared with 4g lte's 20 mhz maximum bandwidth which require carrier aggregation to combine spectrum beyond 20 mhz). as with previous cellular generations, 5g nr is designed to support seamless compatibility with 2g/3g/4g technologies through multimode devices. other (non-cellular) wireless technologies. there are other, non-cellular wireless technologies that have also been broadly adopted. wireless local area networks. wireless local area networks (wlan), such as wi-fi, link two or more nearby devices wirelessly and usually provide connectivity through an access point. wi-fi systems are based on standards developed by the institute of electrical and electronics engineers (ieee) in the 802.11 family of standards. 802.11ax, the latest standard, adds advanced features such as downlink and uplink ofdma and uplink multiple-user mimo to the 802.11 baseline standard. this technology primarily targets broadband connectivity for mobile devices, tablets, laptops and other consumer electronics devices using 2.4 ghz and 5 ghz spectrum. for 60ghz mmwave technology, 802.11ay adds wider channel bandwidth and the use of mimo to the existing 802.11ad (also known as gigabit wi-fi or wigig) standard. 802.11ah was finalized in early 2017 and targets sub-1 ghz spectrum and is expected to be a solution for connected home applications that require long battery life. we played a leading role in the development of 802.11ac, 802.11ax, 802.11ay, 802.11ah, 802.11ad and 802.11p, and we are actively involved in innovative programs developed in the context of the wi-fi alliance. bluetooth. bluetooth is a wireless personal area network that provides wireless connectivity between devices over short distances ranging from a few centimeters to a few hundred meters. bluetooth technology provides wireless connectivity to a wide range of fixed or mobile consumer electronics devices. bluetooth functionalities are standardized by the bluetooth special interest group in various versions of the specification (from 1.0 to 5.0), which include different functionalities, such 8 as enhanced data rate, low energy and mesh technologies. we are a leading contributor to bluetooth technologies in the areas of mobile devices, hid (human interface device), a/v (audio/video) and mesh technologies. location positioning technologies. location positioning technologies have evolved rapidly in the industry over the past few years in order to deliver an enhanced commercial location experience and comply with the new mandates on location for e911 calls from the united states federal communications commission. we are a key developer of the assisted-gps (a-gps), assisted global navigation satellite system (a-gnss) and wlan positioning technologies used in most cellular handsets today. for uses requiring the best reliability and accuracy for e911 services and navigational based services, a-gps, a-gnss and wlan provide leading-edge solutions. the industry continues to evolve to support additional inputs for improving the location experience. our products and intellectual property now support multiple constellations for a-gnss, including: gps, glonass, galileo and beidou; wi-fi-based and bluetooth-based positioning for wlan, including, wi-fi rssi (received signal strength indication) and wi-fi rtt (round-trip time) signals for indoor location; observed time difference of arrival positioning for lte access (e.g. in rural and indoor areas); and third-party inertial sensors. the combination of these different location solutions is used to ensure accurate location availability in all areas. other significant technologies used in cellular and certain consumer electronic devices and networks we have played a leading role in developing and/or acquired many of the other technologies used across the wireless system, such as cellular and certain consumer electronic devices (and not just what is embodied in the chipsets) and networks, including: graphics and display processing functionality; video coding based on the hevc (high efficiency video codec) standard, which is being deployed to support 4k video and immersive media content; audio coding, including evs (enhanced voice services) and mpeg-h 3d audio; the latest version of 3gpp's codec for multimedia use and for voice/speech use; multimedia transport, including mpeg-dash (dynamic adaptive streaming over http) enabling advanced multimedia experiences; camera and camcorder functions; operating system and user interface features; machine learning platforms; augmented reality (ar) and virtual reality (vr) features enabling new types of user experiences; security and content protection systems for enhanced device security without compromising the user experience; volatile (lp-ddr2, 3, 4) and non-volatile (emmc) memory and related controllers; power management systems for improved battery life and device charging; and rffe (radio frequency front-end) system products for improved signal performance and reduced power consumption, while simplifying the design for manufacturers to develop lte multimode, multiband devices. acquisitions nxp semiconductors n.v. on october 27, 2016, we announced a definitive agreement (as amended on february 20, 2018 and april 19, 2018, the purchase agreement) under which qualcomm river holdings, b.v. (qualcomm river holdings), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of qualcomm incorporated, proposed to acquire nxp semiconductors n.v. (nxp). pursuant to the purchase agreement, qualcomm river holdings commenced a tender offer to acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of nxp. on july 26, 2018, we terminated the purchase agreement and paid nxp a termination fee of $2.0 billion in cash in accordance with the terms of the purchase agreement. rf360 holdings. on february 3, 2017, we completed the formation of a joint venture with tdk corporation (tdk), under the name rf360 holdings singapore pte. ltd. (rf360 holdings), to enable delivery of radio frequency front-end (rffe) modules and radio frequency (rf) filters into fully integrated products for mobile devices and internet of things (iot) applications, among others. the joint venture is owned 51% by qualcomm global trading pte. ltd. (qualcomm global trading), a singapore corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of ours, and 49% by epcos ag (epcos), a german wholly-owned subsidiary of tdk. certain intellectual property, patents and filter and module design and manufacturing assets were carved out of existing tdk businesses and are owned by the joint venture, and certain assets were acquired directly by affiliates of ours. qualcomm global trading has the option to acquire (and epcos has an option to sell) 9 epcos's interest in the joint venture for $1.15 billion in august 2019 . the total purchase price was $3.1 billion. rf360 holdings, which is included in our qct segment, is a singapore corporation with research and development and manufacturing and/or sales locations in the united states, europe and asia and its headquarters in munich, germany. operating segments we have three reportable segments. we conduct business primarily through qct (qualcomm cdma technologies) and qtl (qualcomm technology licensing), while qsi (qualcomm strategic initiatives) makes strategic investments. revenues in fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 for our reportable segments were as follows (in millions, except percentage data): 2018 2017 2016 qct $ 17,282 $ 16,479 $ 15,409 as a percent of total 76 % 74 % 65 % qtl $ 5,163 $ 6,445 $ 7,664 as a percent of total 23 % 29 % 33 % qsi $ 100 $ 113 $ 47 as a percent of total 1 % qct segment. qct is a leading developer and supplier of integrated circuits and system software based on cdma, ofdma and other technologies for use in wireless voice and data communications, networking, application processing, multimedia and global positioning system products. qct's integrated circuit products are sold and its system software is licensed to manufacturers that use our products in mobile devices, tablets, laptops, data modules, handheld wireless computers and gaming devices, access points and routers, broadband gateway equipment, data cards and infrastructure equipment, other consumer electronics and automotive telematics and infotainment systems. our mobile station modem (msm) integrated circuits, which include the mobile data modem, qualcomm single chip and qualcomm snapdragon mobile platforms and processors and lte modems, perform the core baseband modem functionality in wireless devices providing voice and data communications, as well as multimedia applications and global positioning functions. in addition, our snapdragon mobile platforms and processors provide advanced application, graphics and ai processing capabilities. because of our experience in designing and developing cdma- and ofdma-based products, we design both the baseband integrated circuit and the supporting system, including the rf (radio frequency), pm (power management) and wireless connectivity (such as wi-fi and bluetooth) integrated circuits. this approach enables us to optimize the performance of the wireless device with improved product features and integration with the network system. qct's system software helps enable the other device components to interface with the integrated circuit products and is the foundation software enabling manufacturers to develop devices utilizing the functionality within the integrated circuits. we also provide support, including reference designs and tools, to assist our customers in reducing the time required to design their products and bring their products to market. qct offers a broad portfolio of products, including both wireless device and infrastructure integrated circuits, in support of cdma- and ofdma-based technologies. our integrated circuit products are included in a broad range of devices, from low-tier, entry-level devices for emerging regions (including china), which may use our qualcomm reference design (qrd) products, to premium-tier devices. in fiscal 2018 , qct shipped approximately 855 million msm integrated circuits for wireless devices worldwide, compared to approximately 804 million and 842 million in fiscal 2017 and 2016 , respectively. our modems are built to work with increasingly complex networks. they support the latest communication technologies and adapt to network conditions and user needs in real time to enable delivery of faster, smoother data and voice connections. our 3g/4g modem roadmap delivers the latest network technologies across multiple product tiers and devices. this roadmap is the result of our years of research into emerging network standards and the development of chipsets that take advantage of these new standards, while maintaining backward compatibility with existing standards. each snapdragon mobile platform and processor is a highly integrated, mobile optimized system on a chip incorporating our advanced technologies, including a snapdragon modem for fast, reliable mobile broadband connectivity, a high performance central processing unit (cpu), digital signal processor (dsp), graphics processing unit (gpu), image signal processor, multimedia subsystems, including high fidelity audio, high-definition video and advanced imaging capabilities, our mobile security technology, and accurate location positioning engines. our cpu cores are designed to deliver high levels of compute performance at low power, allowing manufacturers to design powerful, slim and power-efficient devices. our qualcomm adreno gpus are also designed to deliver high quality graphics performance for visually rich 3d gaming and user interfaces. the heterogeneous compute architecture of our snapdragon mobile platforms and processors is designed to 10 help ensure that the cpu, dsp and gpu work efficiently together, each being utilized only when needed, which enhances the processing capacity, speed and efficiency of our snapdragon mobile platforms and processors and the battery life of devices using our platforms and processors. our portfolio of rf products includes qfe (qualcomm front end) radio frequency front-end (rffe) components that are designed to simplify the rf design for lte multimode, multiband mobile devices, reduce power consumption and improve radio performance. through our rf360 holdings joint venture, qct offers an expanded portfolio of rffe products for mobile devices, infrastructure, automotive and iot applications. our technologies provide comprehensive rffe product offerings with system level performance from the modem and transceiver to the antenna tuner that include power tracking, tuning systems, switching, multimode-multiband power amplification, low noise amplifiers, complex transmit and receive modules, in addition to discrete filtering applications across cellular, infrastructure and automotive markets. our wireless products also consist of integrated circuits and system software for wi-fi, bluetooth, bluetooth smart, frequency modulation (fm) and near field communications (nfc), as well as technologies that support location data and services, including gps, glonass, beidou and galileo. our wi-fi, bluetooth and fm products have been integrated with the snapdragon mobile platforms and processors to provide additional connectivity for mobile devices, tablets, laptops, consumer electronics and automotive telematics and infotainment systems. qct also offers standalone wi-fi, bluetooth, bluetooth smart, applications processor and ethernet products for mobile devices, consumer electronics, computers, iot applications, other connected devices and automotive telematics and infotainment systems. our networking products include wi-fi, ethernet and powerline chips, network processors and software. these products help enable home and business networks to support the growing number of connected devices, digital media, data services and other smart home applications. qct primarily utilizes a fabless production model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. integrated circuits are die cut from silicon wafers that have completed the package assembly and test manufacturing processes. the semiconductor package supports the electrical contacts that connect the integrated circuit to a circuit board. die cut from silicon wafers are the essential components of all of our integrated circuits and a significant portion of the total integrated circuit cost. we employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing models to purchase our integrated circuits. under the turnkey model, our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. under the two-stage manufacturing model, we purchase die in singular or wafer form from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-party suppliers for manufacturing services such as wafer bump, probe, assembly and the majority of our final test requirements. rf360 holdings uses certain internal fabrication facilities to manufacture rffe modules and rf filter acoustic products, and its manufacturing operations consist of front-end and back-end processes. the front-end processes primarily take place at manufacturing facilities located in germany and singapore and involve the imprinting of substrate silicon wafers with the circuitry required for semiconductors to function (also known as wafer fabrication). the back-end processes involve the assembly, packaging and test of semiconductors to prepare rffe modules and rf filter acoustic products for distribution. the back-end manufacturing facilities are located in china, germany and singapore. other than rf360 holdings, we primarily rely on independent third-party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits based primarily on our proprietary designs and test programs. our suppliers also are responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. the primary foundry suppliers for our various digital, analog/mixed-signal, rf and pm integrated circuits are global foundries inc., samsung electronics co. ltd., semiconductor manufacturing international corporation, taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company and united microelectronics corporation. the primary semiconductor assembly and test suppliers are advanced semiconductor engineering, amkor technology, siliconware precision industries and statschippac. the majority of our foundry and semiconductor assembly and test suppliers are located in the asia-pacific region. qct's sales are primarily made through standard purchase orders for delivery of products. qct generally allows customers to reschedule delivery dates within a defined time frame and to cancel orders prior to shipment with or without payment of a penalty, depending on when the order is canceled. the industry in which qct operates is intensely competitive. qct competes worldwide with a number of u.s. and international designers and manufacturers of semiconductors. as a result of global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological changes, lengthening replacement cycles for mobile devices, device manufacturer concentrations and the potential for further industry consolidation, we anticipate the industry to remain very competitive. we believe that the principal competitive factors for our products include performance, level of integration, quality, compliance with industry standards, price, time-to-market, system cost, design and engineering capabilities, new product innovation, growth and scaling of distribution channels and customer support. qct also competes in both single- and multi-mode environments against alternative communications technologies including, but not limited to, 11 gsm/gprs/edge and tdma. additional competitive factors exist for qct product offerings that have expanded into adjacent industry segments outside traditional cellular industries, including iot and automotive, the latter of which is subject to long design-in time frames, long product life cycles and a high degree of regulatory and safety requirements, necessitating suppliers to the industry to comply with stringent qualification processes, very low defect rates and high reliability standards, all of which results in a significant barrier to entry and may result in increased costs. qct's current competitors include, but are not limited to, companies such as broadcom limited, cirrus logic, cypress semiconductor corporation, hisilicon technologies, intel, marvell technology, maxim integrated products, mediatek, microchip technology inc., murata manufacturing co., ltd., nordic semiconductor, nvidia, nxp semiconductors n.v., qorvo inc., realtek semiconductor, renesas electronics corporation, samsung electronics, sequans communications s.a., skyworks solutions inc. and spreadtrum communications (which is controlled by tsinghua unigroup). qct also faces competition from products internally developed by our customers, including some of our largest customers, and from some early-stage companies. our competitors devote significant amounts of their financial, technical and other resources to develop and market competitive products and, in some cases, to develop and adopt competitive digital communication or signal processing technologies, and those efforts may materially and adversely affect us. although we have attained a significant position in the industry, many of our current and potential competitors may have advantages over us that include, among others: motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to utilize their own internally-developed integrated circuit products, to use our competitors' integrated circuit products and/or sell such products to others, including by bundling with other products, or to choose alternative technologies; lower cost structures and/or a willingness and ability to accept lower prices and lower or negative margins for their products, particularly in china; foreign government support of other technologies or competitors; better known brand names; ownership and control of manufacturing facilities and greater expertise in manufacturing processes; more extensive relationships with local distribution companies and original equipment manufacturers in certain geographic regions (such as china) and/or experience in adjacent industry segments outside traditional cellular industries (such as automotive and iot); and/or a more established presence in certain regions. qtl segment . qtl grants licenses or otherwise provides rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which, among other rights, includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products, including, without limitation, products implementing cdma2000, wcdma, cdma tdd, lte and/or 5g standards and their derivatives. we have historically licensed our cellular standard-essential patents together with other qualcomm patents that may be useful to such licensed products because licensees typically have desired to obtain the commercial benefits of receiving such broad patent rights from us. however, we offer licenses to only our cellular standard-essential patents (including 3g, 4g and 5g) for both single mode and multi-mode devices worldwide. a number of our licensees have entered into standard-essential patent only agreements on a worldwide basis, and we expect more of our licensees may enter into such standard-essential patent only agreements in the future. our licensees manufacture wireless products including mobile devices (also known as subscriber units, which include handsets), other consumer devices (e.g., tablets and laptops), machine-to-machine devices (e.g., telematics devices, meter reading devices), plug-in end user data modem cards, certain embedded modules for incorporation into end user products, infrastructure equipment required to establish and operate a network and equipment to test networks and subscriber units. since our founding in 1985, we have focused heavily on technology development and innovation. these efforts have resulted in a leading intellectual property portfolio related to, among other things, wireless technology. we have an extensive portfolio of united states and foreign patents, and we continue to pursue patent applications around the world. our patents have broad coverage in many countries, including brazil, china, india, japan, south korea, taiwan, the united states and countries in europe and elsewhere. a substantial portion of our patents and patent applications relate to digital wireless communications technologies, including patents that are essential or may be important to the commercial implementation of cdma2000, wcdma (umts), td-scdma, td-cdma (time division cdma), ofdma-based lte and ofdma-based 5g products. our patent portfolio is the most widely and extensively licensed in the industry, with more than 300 licensees. additionally, we have a substantial patent portfolio related to key technologies used in communications and other devices and/or related services, some of which were developed in industry standards development bodies. these include certain video codecs, audio codecs, wi-fi, memory interfaces, wireless power, gps and positioning, broadcast and streaming protocols, and short-range communication functionalities, including nfc and bluetooth. our patents cover a wide range of technologies across the entire wireless system, including the device (handsets and other wireless devices) and not just what is embodied in the chipsets. over the years, a number of companies have challenged our patent position, but companies in the mobile communications industry generally recognize that any company seeking to develop, manufacture and/or sell subscriber units or infrastructure equipment that use cdma-based and/or ofdma-based technologies will require a license or other rights to use our patents. we have licensed or otherwise provided rights to use our patents to hundreds of companies on industry-accepted terms. unlike some other companies in our industry that hold back certain key technologies, we offer companies substantially our 12 entire patent portfolio for use in cellular subscriber devices and cell site infrastructure equipment. our strategy to make our patented technologies broadly available has been a catalyst for industry growth, helping to enable a wide range of companies offering a broad array of wireless products and features while increasing the capabilities of and/or driving down average and low-end selling prices for 3g handsets and other wireless devices. by licensing or otherwise providing rights to use our patents to a wide range of equipment manufacturers, encouraging innovative applications, supporting equipment manufacturers with integrated chipset and software products and focusing on improving the efficiency of the airlink for wireless operators, we have helped 3g cdma evolve and grow and reduced device pricing, all at a faster pace than the 2g (second generation) technologies such as gsm that preceded it. upon the initial deployment of ofdma-based networks, the products implementing such technologies generally have been multimode and implement cdma-based technologies. the licenses granted under our existing cdma license agreements generally cover multimode cdma/ofdma (3g/4g) devices, and our licensees are obligated to pay royalties under their cdma license agreements for such devices. further, the majority of the leading handset and other wireless device companies (including huawei, lg, microsoft, oppo, samsung, sony, vivo, xiaomi and zte) have royalty-bearing licenses under our patent portfolio for use in lte or other ofdma-based products that do not implement any cdma-based standards. as opportunities arise, we are expanding licenses granted under existing agreements to include 5g technologies through release 15, both for multimode (i.e. 3g/4g/5g) devices as well as single mode 5g devices. in addition, new license agreements will include 5g technologies through release 15 as a standard offering. standards bodies have been informed that we hold patents that might be essential for all 3g standards that are based on cdma. we have committed to such standards bodies that we will offer to license our essential patents for these cdma standards consistent with our commitments to those bodies. we have also informed standards bodies that we hold patents and pending patent applications that are potentially essential for lte standards, including fdd and tdd versions and have committed to offer to license our essential patents for these lte standards consistent with our commitments to those bodies. we have informed standards bodies that we hold patents and pending patent applications that are potentially essential for 5g technologies and have committed to offer to license our essential patents for these 5g standards consistent with our commitments to those bodies. we have made similar commitments with respect to certain other technologies implemented in industry standards. qtl licensing revenues include license fees and royalties based on sales by licensees of products incorporating or using our intellectual property. license fees are fixed amounts paid in one or more installments. royalties are generally based upon a percentage of the wholesale (i.e., licensee's) selling price of complete licensed products, net of certain permissible deductions (including transportation, insurance, packing costs and other items). we broadly provide per unit royalty caps that apply to certain categories of complete wireless devices, namely smartphones, tablets and laptops, which effectively provide for a maximum royalty amount per device. revenues generated from royalties are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations. the vast majority of qtl revenues have been generated through our licensees' sales of cdma2000-based, wcdma-based and lte-based products (including 3g and 4g multi-mode devices), such as feature phones and smartphones. we have invested and continue to invest in both the acquisition and development of ofdma technology and intellectual property and have generated the industry leading patent portfolio applicable to lte, lte advanced and lte advanced pro. additionally, we have invested and continue to invest in the development of 5g which heavily leverages 3g and 4g technologies. nevertheless, we face competition in the development of intellectual property for future generations of digital wireless communications technologies and services. separate and apart from licensing manufacturers of wireless devices and network equipment, we have entered into certain arrangements with competitors of our qct segment, such as broadcom limited. a principal purpose of these arrangements is to provide our qct segment and the counterparties certain freedom of operation with respect to each party's integrated circuits business. in every case, these agreements expressly reserve the right for qtl to seek royalties from the customers of such integrated circuit suppliers with respect to such suppliers' customers' sales of cdma-, wcdma- and ofdma-based wireless devices into which such suppliers' integrated circuits are incorporated. our license agreements also may provide us with rights to use certain of our licensees' technology and intellectual property to manufacture and sell certain components (e.g., application-specific integrated circuits) and related software, subscriber units and/or infrastructure equipment. we are currently subject to various governmental investigations and private legal proceedings challenging our patent licensing practices, which may require us to change our patent licensing practices as described more fully in this annual report in part i, item 1a. risk factors under the heading changes in our patent licensing practices, whether due to governmental investigations, private legal proceedings challenging those practices or otherwise, could adversely impact our business and results of operations and in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. 13 qsi segment. qsi makes strategic investments that are focused on opening new or expanding opportunities for our technologies and supporting the design and introduction of new products and services (or enhancing existing products or services) for voice and data communications and new industry segments. many of these strategic investments are in early-stage companies in a variety of industries, including, but not limited to, automotive, iot, mobile, data center and healthcare. investments primarily include non-marketable equity instruments, which generally are recorded using the cost method or the equity method, and convertible debt instruments, which are recorded at fair value. in addition, qsi segment results include revenues and related costs associated with development contracts with one of our equity method investees. as part of our strategic investment activities, we intend to pursue various exit strategies for each of our qsi investments in the foreseeable future. other businesses. nonreportable segments include our cyber security solutions, mobile health, small cells and other wireless technology and service initiatives. our nonreportable segments develop and sell products and services that include, but are not limited to: products and services for mobile health; license of chipset technology and products and services for use in data centers; products designed for implementation of small cells to address the challenge of meeting the increased demand for mobile data; development, other services and related products to u.s. government agencies and their contractors; and software products and content and push-to-talk enablement services to wireless operators. additional information regarding our operating segments is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 8. segment information. information regarding seasonality is provided in this annual report in part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the our business and operating segments section under the heading seasonality. restructuring plans in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we announced a cost plan designed to align our cost structure to our long-term margin targets. as part of this plan, we have initiated and continue to execute on a series of targeted actions across our businesses to reduce annual costs by $1 billion, excluding incremental costs resulting from any future acquisition of a business. we expect these cost reductions to be fully captured in fiscal 2019. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, we announced a strategic realignment plan designed to improve execution, enhance financial performance and drive profitable growth as we worked to create sustainable long-term value for stockholders. as part of this, among other actions, we implemented a cost reduction plan, which included a series of targeted reductions across our businesses, particularly in qct, and a reduction to our annual share-based compensation grants. restructuring activities were initiated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, and the cost reduction initiatives were achieved by the end of fiscal 2016 and other activities under the plan were completed by the end of fiscal 2017. additional information regarding our cost plan and strategic realignment plan is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 10. restructuring plans. corporate structure we operate our businesses through our parent company, qualcomm incorporated, and multiple direct and indirect subsidiaries. we have developed our corporate structure in order to address various legal, regulatory, tax, contractual compliance, operations and other matters. substantially all of our products and services businesses, including qct, and substantially all of our engineering, research and development functions, are operated by qualcomm technologies, inc. (qti), a wholly-owned subsidiary of qualcomm incorporated, and qti's subsidiaries. qtl is operated by qualcomm incorporated, which owns the vast majority of our patent portfolio. neither qti nor any of its subsidiaries has any right, power or authority to grant any licenses or other rights under or to any patents owned by qualcomm incorporated. revenue concentrations and significant customers revenues in fiscal 2018 and 2017 were negatively impacted by our continued dispute with apple inc. and hon hai precision industry co., ltd./foxconn, its affiliates and other suppliers to apple. we did not record any revenues in fiscal 2018 or the third or fourth quarter of fiscal 2017 for royalties due on sales of apple's products. a small number of customers/licensees historically have accounted for a significant portion of our consolidated revenues. in fiscal 2018 , revenues from samsung electronics, xiaomi corporation and suppliers to apple inc. each comprised more than 10% of consolidated revenues. combined revenues from guangdong oppo mobile telecommunications corp. ltd. and vivo communication technology co., ltd., and their respective affiliates, also comprised more than 10% of consolidated revenues in fiscal 2018 and 2017 . in fiscal 2017 and 2016 , revenues from samsung electronics and suppliers to apple inc. each comprised more than 10% of consolidated revenues. 14 research and development the communications industry is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions, requiring a continuous effort to enhance existing products and technologies and to develop new products and technologies. we have significant engineering resources, including engineers with substantial expertise in cdma, ofdma and a broad range of other technologies. using these engineering resources, we expect to continue to invest in research and development in a variety of ways in an effort to extend the demand for our products, and to leverage that research and development in adjacent industry segments outside of traditional cellular industries (such as automotive, iot and networking), including continuing the development of cdma, ofdma and other technologies (such as rffe), developing alternative technologies for certain specialized applications, participating in the formulation of new voice and data communication standards and technologies, and assisting in deploying digital voice and data communications networks around the world. our research and development team has a demonstrated track record of innovation in voice and data communication technologies and application processor technology, among others. we continue to invest significant resources towards advancements in 4g ofdma-based technologies (including lte) and 5g ofdma-based technologies. we also engage in acquisitions and other transactions, such as joint ventures, to meet certain technology needs, to obtain development resources or open or expand opportunities for our technologies and to support the design and introduction of new products and services (or enhancing existing products and services) for voice and data communications and new industry segments outside of the traditional cellular industry. our most recent significant transaction was our rf360 holdings joint venture with tdk corporation. we make investments to provide our integrated circuit customers with chipsets designed on leading-edge technology nodes that combine multiple technologies for use in consumer devices (e.g., smartphones, tablets and laptops), consumer electronics and other products (e.g., access points and routers, data cards and infrastructure equipment). in addition to 3g and 4g lte technologies, our chipsets support other wireless and wired connectivity technologies, including wi-fi, bluetooth, ethernet, gps, glonass, beidou, galileo and powerline communication. our integrated chipsets often include multiple technologies, including advanced multimode modems, application processors and graphics engines, as well as the tools to connect these diverse technologies. we continue to support android, windows and other mobile client software environments in our chipsets. we develop on our own, and with our partners, innovations that are integrated into our product portfolio to further expand the opportunity for wireless communications and enhance the value of our products and services. these innovations are expected to enable our customers to improve the performance or value of their existing services, offer these services more affordably and introduce revenue-generating broadband data services ahead of their competition. we have research and development centers in various locations throughout the world that support our global development activities and ongoing efforts to develop and/or advance 4g, 5g and a broad range of other technologies. we continue to use our substantial engineering resources and expertise to develop new technologies, applications and services and make them available to licensees to help grow the communications industry and generate new or expanded licensing opportunities. we also make investments in opportunities that leverage our existing technical and business expertise to deploy new and expanded product areas, such as rffe, and enter into adjacent industry segments, such as products for automotive, iot (including the connected home, smart cities, wearables, voice and music and robotics), networking, computing and ai, such as machine learning, among others. sales and marketing sales and marketing activities of our operating segments are discussed under operating segments. other marketing activities include public relations, advertising, digital marketing and social media, participation in technical conferences and trade shows, development of business cases and white papers, competitive analyses, industry intelligence and other marketing programs, such as marketing development funds with our customers. our corporate marketing department provides company information on our internet site and through other channels regarding our products, strategies and technology to industry analysts and media. competition competition faced by our operating segments is discussed under operating segments. competition in the communications industry throughout the world continues to increase at a rapid pace as consumers, businesses and governments realize the potential of wireless communications products and services. we have facilitated competition in the wireless communications industry by licensing our technologies to a large number of manufacturers. although we have attained a significant position in the traditional cellular industry, many of our current and potential competitors may have 15 advantages over us that include, among others: motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to utilize their own internally-developed integrated circuit products, to use our competitors' integrated circuit products and/or sell such products to others, including by bundling with other products, or to choose alternative technologies; lower cost structures and/or a willingness and ability to accept lower prices and lower or negative margins for their products, particularly in china; foreign government support of other technologies or competitors; better known brand names; ownership and control of manufacturing facilities and greater expertise in manufacturing processes; more extensive relationships with local distribution companies and original equipment manufacturers in certain geographic regions (such as china) and/or experience in adjacent industry segments outside traditional cellular industries (such as automotive and iot); and/or a more established presence in certain regions. these relationships may affect customers' decisions to purchase products or license technology from us. accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market positions to our detriment. we expect competition to increase as our current competitors expand their product offerings and introduce new technologies and services in the future and as additional companies compete with our products or services based on 3g, 4g, 5g or other technologies. although we intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing new products and technologies and improving existing products and technologies, our competitors may introduce alternative products, services or technologies that threaten our business. it is also possible that the prices we charge for our products and services may continue to decline as competition continues to intensify. see also the risk factor entitled our industry is subject to competition in an environment of rapid technological change that could result in decreased demand and/or declining average selling prices for our products and/or those of our customers and/or licensees. corporate responsibility and sustainability we strive to better our local and global communities through ethical business practices, socially empowering technology applications, educational and environmental programs and employee diversity and volunteerism. our governance. we aim to demonstrate accountability, transparency, integrity and ethical business practices throughout our operations and interactions with our stakeholders. our products. we strive to meet or exceed industry standards for product responsibility and supplier management. our workplace. we endeavor to provide a safe and healthy work environment where diversity is embraced and various opportunities for training, growth and advancement are encouraged for all employees. our community. we have strategic relationships with a wide range of local organizations and programs that develop and strengthen communities worldwide. our environment. we aim to expand our operations while minimizing our carbon footprint, conserving water and reducing waste. qualcomm wireless reach . we invest in strategic programs that foster entrepreneurship, aid in public safety, enhance delivery of health care, enrich teaching and learning and improve environmental sustainability through the use of advanced wireless technologies. employees at september 30, 2018 , we employed approximately 35,400 full-time, part-time and temporary employees, including employees from our rf360 holdings consolidated joint venture. during fiscal 2018 , the number of employees decreased by approximately 2,400 from 37,800 at september 24, 2017 primarily due to actions taken under our cost plan. available information our internet address is www.qualcomm.com. there we make available, free of charge, our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). we also make available on our internet site public financial information for which a report is not required to be filed with or furnished to the sec. our sec reports and other financial information can be accessed through the investor relations section of our internet site. the information found on our internet site is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the sec. 16 executive officers our executive officers (and their ages at september 30, 2018 ) are as follows: steve mollenkopf, age 49, has served as chief executive officer since march 2014 and as a director since december 2013. he served as chief executive officer-elect and president from december 2013 to march 2014 and as president and chief operating officer from november 2011 to december 2013. in addition, he served as executive vice president and group president from september 2010 to november 2011 and as executive vice president and president, qct from august 2008 to september 2010. mr. mollenkopf joined qualcomm in 1994 as an engineer and throughout his tenure at qualcomm has held several other technical and leadership positions. mr. mollenkopf served as a member of the board of directors of general electric company from november 2016 to april 2018. mr. mollenkopf holds a b.s. degree in electrical engineering from virginia tech and an m.s. degree in electrical engineering from the university of michigan. cristiano r. amon, age 48, has served as president, qualcomm incorporated since january 2018. he served as executive vice president, qualcomm technologies, inc. (qti, a subsidiary of qualcomm incorporated) and president, qualcomm cdma technologies (qct) from november 2015 to january 2018. he served as executive vice president, qti and co-president, qct from october 2012 to november 2015, senior vice president, qualcomm incorporated and co-president, qct from june 2012 to october 2012 and as senior vice president, qct product management from october 2007 to june 2012. mr. amon joined qualcomm in 1995 as an engineer and throughout his tenure at qualcomm held several other technical and leadership positions. mr. amon holds a b.s. degree in electrical engineering from unicamp, the state university of campinas, brazil. george s. davis, age 60, has served as executive vice president and chief financial officer since march 2013. mr. davis is responsible for leading finance, information technology and investor relations. prior to joining qualcomm, mr. davis was chief financial officer of applied materials, inc., a provider of manufacturing equipment, services and software to the semiconductor, flat panel display, solar photovoltaic and related industries, from november 2006 to march 2013. mr. davis held several other leadership positions at applied materials from november 1999 to november 2006. prior to joining applied materials, mr. davis served 19 years with atlantic richfield company in a number of finance and other corporate positions. mr. davis holds a b.a. degree in economics and political science from claremont mckenna college and an m.b.a. degree from the university of california, los angeles. brian t. modoff, age 59, has served as executive vice president, strategy and mergers &amp; acquisitions since october 2015. prior to joining qualcomm, mr. modoff was a managing director in equity research at deutsche bank securities inc. (deutsche bank), a provider of financial services, from march 1999 to october 2015. prior to joining deutsche bank, mr. modoff was a research analyst at several financial institutions from november 1993 to march 1999. mr. modoff holds a b.a. degree in economics from california state university, fullerton and a master of international management from the thunderbird school of global management. alexander h. rogers, age 61, has served as executive vice president and president, qtl since october 2016. he served as senior vice president and president, qtl from september 2016 to october 2016, senior vice president, deputy general counsel and general manager, qtl from march 2016 to september 2016, senior vice president and deputy general counsel from october 2015 to march 2016 and senior vice president and legal counsel from april 2007 to october 2015. mr. rogers joined qualcomm in january 2001 as an attorney and throughout his tenure at qualcomm held several other leadership positions in the legal department. prior to joining qualcomm, mr. rogers was a partner at the law firm of gray, cary, ware &amp; friedenrich (now dla piper). mr. rogers holds b.a. and m.a. degrees in english literature from georgetown university and a j.d. degree from georgetown university law center. donald j. rosenberg, age 67, has served as executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since october 2007. he served as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary of apple inc. from december 2006 to october 2007. from may 1975 to november 2006, mr. rosenberg held numerous positions at ibm corporation, including senior vice president and general counsel. mr. rosenberg has served as a member of the board of directors of nuvasive, inc. since february 2016 and is presently nuvasive's lead independent director. mr. rosenberg holds a b.s. degree in mathematics from the state university of new york at stony brook and a j.d. degree from st. john's university school of law. michelle sterling, age 51, has served as executive vice president, human resources since may 2015. she served as senior vice president, human resources from october 2007 to may 2015. ms. sterling joined qualcomm in 1994 and throughout her tenure at qualcomm has held several other human resources and leadership positions. ms. sterling holds a b.s. degree in business management from the university of redlands. 17 james h. thompson, age 54, has served as executive vice president, engineering, qualcomm technologies, inc. and chief technology officer since march 2017. he served as executive vice president, engineering, qualcomm technologies, inc. from october 2012 to march 2017 and as senior vice president, engineering, qualcomm incorporated from july 1998 to october 2012. dr. thompson joined qualcomm in 1992 as a senior engineer and throughout his tenure at qualcomm held several other technical and leadership positions. dr. thompson holds b.s., m.s. and ph.d. degrees in electrical engineering from the university of wisconsin. item 1a. risk factors you should consider each of the following factors in evaluating our business and our prospects. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also negatively impact our business and results of operations and require significant management time and attention. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. you should also consider the other information set forth in this annual report in evaluating our business and our prospects, including but not limited to our financial statements and the related notes, and part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. risks related to our businesses our revenues depend on commercial network deployments, expansions and upgrades of cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies, including 5g; our customers' and licensees' sales of products and services based on these technologies; and customers' demand for our products and services. we develop, patent and commercialize technology and products based on cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies, which are primarily wireless. we depend on operators of wireless networks and our customers and licensees to adopt and/or implement the latest generation of these technologies for use in their networks, devices and services. we also depend on our customers and licensees to develop devices and services based on these technologies with value-added features to drive consumer demand for new 3g/4g and 3g/4g/5g multi-mode devices, as well as 3g, 4g and 5g single-mode devices, as well as to establish the selling prices for such devices. further, we depend on the timing of our customers' and licensees' deployments of new devices and services based on these technologies. increasingly, we also depend on operators of wireless networks, our customers and licensees and other third parties to incorporate these technologies into new device types and into industries and applications beyond traditional cellular communications, such as automotive, iot (including the connected home, smart cities, wearables, voice and music and robotics), networking, computing and artificial intelligence (ai), such as machine learning, among others. we have historically been successful during wireless technology transitions. the next generation of wireless technologies is 5g, which we expect will empower a new era of connected devices and will be utilized not only in handsets but in new device types, industries and applications beyond traditional cellular communications, as described above (see also part i, item 1, business for a further description of 5g). we expect initial commercial deployments of 5g devices to begin in calendar 2019. we believe it is important that we be a leader in 5g technology development, standardization, intellectual property creation and licensing, and develop, commercialize and be a leading supplier of 5g integrated circuit products and services in order to sustain and grow our business long-term. our revenues and/or growth in revenues could be negatively impacted, our business may be harmed and our substantial investments in these technologies may not provide us an adequate return, if: wireless operators and industries beyond traditional cellular communications deploy alternative technologies; wireless operators delay next-generation network deployments, particularly 5g, expansions or upgrades and/or delay moving 2g customers to 3g, 3g/4g multi-mode, 4g or 5g wireless devices; lte, an ofdma-based wireless technology, is not more widely deployed or further commercial deployment is delayed; government regulators delay making sufficient spectrum available for 3g, 4g and 5g wireless technologies, including unlicensed spectrum and shared spectrum technologies, thereby restricting the ability of wireless operators to deploy or expand the use of these technologies; wireless operators delay or do not drive improvements in 3g, 4g or 3g/4g multi-mode network performance and/or capacity; 18 our customers' and licensees' revenues and sales of products, particularly premium-tier products, and services using these technologies, and average selling prices (asps) of such products, decline, do not grow or do not grow as anticipated due to, for example, the maturity of smartphone penetration in developed regions; our intellectual property and technical leadership included in the 5g standardization effort is different than in 3g and 4g standards; the standardization and/or deployment of 5g technologies is delayed; we are unable to drive the adoption of our products and services into networks and devices, including devices beyond traditional cellular applications, based on cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies; and/or consumers' rates of replacement of smartphones and other computing devices decline, do not grow or do not grow as quickly as anticipated. our industry is subject to competition in an environment of rapid technological change that could result in decreased demand and/or declining average selling prices for our products and/or those of our customers and/or licensees. our products, services and technologies face significant competition. we expect competition to increase as our current competitors expand their product offerings or reduce the prices of their products as part of a strategy to attract new business and/or customers, as new opportunities develop, and as new competitors enter the industry. competition in wireless communications is affected by various factors that include, among others: device manufacturer concentrations; vertical integration; growth in demand, consumption and competition in certain geographic regions; government intervention and/or support of national industries and/or competitors; evolving industry standards and business models; evolving methods of transmission of voice and data communications; increasing data traffic and densification of wireless networks; convergence and aggregation of connectivity technologies (including wi-fi and lte) in both devices and access points; consolidation of wireless technologies and infrastructure at the network edge; networking and connectivity trends (including cloud services); use of licensed, shared and unlicensed spectrum; the evolving nature of computing (including demand for always on, always connected capabilities); the speed of technological change (including the transition to smaller geometry process technologies); value-added features that drive selling prices as well as consumer demand for new 3g, 3g/4g multi-mode, 4g and 5g devices; turnkey, integrated products that incorporate hardware, software, user interface, applications and reference designs; scalability; and the ability of the system technology to meet customers' immediate and future network requirements. we anticipate that additional competitors will introduce products as a result of growth opportunities in wireless communications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in certain segments of the industry. additionally, the semiconductor industry has experienced and may continue to experience consolidation, which could result in significant changes to the competitive landscape. we expect that our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to: differentiate our integrated circuit products with innovative technologies across multiple products and features (e.g., modem, radio frequency front-end (rffe), graphics and/or other processors, camera and connectivity) and with smaller geometry process technologies that drive performance; develop and offer integrated circuit products at competitive cost and price points to effectively cover both emerging and developed geographic regions and all device tiers; drive the adoption of our integrated circuit products into the most popular device models and across a broad spectrum of devices, such as smartphones, tablets, laptops and other computing devices, automobiles, wearables and voice and music and other connected devices and infrastructure products; maintain and/or accelerate demand for our integrated circuit products at the premium device tier, while increasing the adoption of our products in mid- and low-tier devices, in part by strengthening our integrated circuit product roadmap for, and developing channel relationships in, emerging regions, such as china and india, and by providing turnkey products, which incorporate our integrated circuits, for low- and mid-tier smartphones, tablets and laptops; continue to be a leader in 4g and 5g technology evolution, including expansion of our lte-based single-mode licensing program in areas where single-mode products are commercialized, and continue to innovate and introduce 4g and 5g turnkey, integrated products and services that differentiate us from our competition; be a leader serving original equipment manufacturers, high level operating systems (hlos) providers, operators, cloud providers and other industry participants as competitors, new industry entrants and other factors continue to affect the industry landscape; 19 be a preferred partner (and sustain preferred relationships) providing integrated circuit products that support multiple operating system and infrastructure platforms to industry participants that effectively commercialize new devices using these platforms; increase and/or accelerate demand for our semiconductor component products, including rffe, and our wired and wireless connectivity products, including networking products for consumers, carriers and enterprise equipment and connected devices; identify potential acquisition targets that will grow or sustain our business or address strategic needs, reach agreement on terms acceptable to us, close the transactions and effectively integrate these new businesses and/or technologies; create standalone value and/or contribute to the success of our existing businesses through acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions (and/or by developing customer, licensee, vendor, distributor and/or other channel relationships) in new industry segments and/or disruptive technologies, products and/or services (such as products for automotive, iot (including the connected home, smart cities, wearables, voice and music and robotics), networking, computing and ai, such as machine learning, among others); become a leading supplier of rffe products, which are designed to address cellular radio frequency band fragmentation while improving radio frequency performance and assist original equipment manufacturers in developing multiband, multi-mode mobile devices; be a leader in 5g technology development, standardization, intellectual property creation and licensing and develop, commercialize and be a leading supplier of 5g integrated circuit products and services; and/or continue to develop brand recognition to effectively compete against better known companies in computing and other consumer driven segments and to deepen our presence in significant emerging regions. competition in any or all product tiers may result in the loss of certain business or customers, which would negatively impact our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. such competition may also reduce average selling prices for our chipset products and/or the products of our customers and licensees. certain of these dynamics are particularly pronounced in emerging regions where competitors may have lower cost structures and/or may have a willingness and ability to accept lower prices and/or lower or negative margins on their products (particularly in china). reductions in the average selling prices of our chipset products, without a corresponding increase in volumes, would negatively impact our revenues, and without corresponding decreases in average unit costs, would negatively impact our margins. in addition, reductions in the average selling prices of our licensees' products, unless offset by an increase in volumes, would generally decrease total royalties payable to us, negatively impacting our licensing revenues. we compete with many different semiconductor companies, ranging from multinational companies with integrated research and development, manufacturing, sales and marketing organizations across a broad spectrum of product lines, to companies that are focused on a single application market segment or standard product, including those that produce products for automotive, iot and networking applications. most of these competitors compete with us with respect to some, but not all, of our businesses. companies that promote standards that are neither cdma- nor ofdma-based (e.g., gsm) as well as companies that design integrated circuits based on cdma, ofdma, wi-fi or their derivatives are generally competitors or potential competitors. examples (some of which are strategic partners of ours in other areas) include advanced micro devices, inc., broadcom limited, cirrus logic, cypress semiconductor corporation, hisilicon technologies, intel, marvell technology, maxim integrated products, mediatek, microchip technology inc., murata manufacturing co., ltd., nordic semiconductor, nvidia, nxp semiconductors n.v., qorvo inc., realtek semiconductor, renesas electronics corporation, samsung electronics, sequans communications s.a., skyworks solutions inc. and spreadtrum communications (which is controlled by tsinghua unigroup). some of these current and potential competitors may have advantages over us that include, among others: motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to utilize their own internally-developed integrated circuit products, to use our competitors' integrated circuit products and/or sell such products to others, including by bundling with other products, or to choose alternative technologies; lower cost structures and/or a willingness and ability to accept lower prices and lower or negative margins for their products, particularly in china; foreign government support of other technologies or competitors; better known brand names; ownership and control of manufacturing facilities and greater expertise in manufacturing processes; more extensive relationships with local distribution companies and original equipment manufacturers in certain geographic regions (such as china) and/or experience in adjacent industry segments outside traditional cellular industries (such as automotive and iot); and/or a more established presence in certain regions. 20 we derive a significant portion of our consolidated revenues from a small number of customers and licensees, which increasingly includes a small number of chinese oems. if revenues derived from these customers or licensees decrease or the timing of such revenues fluctuates, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. our qct segment derives a significant portion of its revenues from a small number of customers, and we expect this trend to continue in the foreseeable future. our industry is experiencing and may continue to experience concentration of device share among a few companies, particularly at the premium tier, contributing to this trend. chinese oems continue to grow their device share in china and are increasing their device share in regions outside of china, and we derive a significant and increasing portion of our revenues from a small number of these oems. in addition, certain of our largest integrated circuit customers develop their own integrated circuit products, which they have in the past chosen to utilize in certain of their devices, and may in the future choose to utilize in certain (or all) of their devices, rather than our products (and/or sell their integrated circuit products to third parties in competition with us). also, apple, which has historically been one of our largest customers, now utilizes products of one of our competitors in many of their devices rather than our products, is solely utilizing one or more or our competitor's products in its next smartphone launch, and may continue to use our competitors' products rather than our products in the future. the loss of any one of our significant customers, a reduction in the purchases of our products by such customers or the cancelation of significant purchases by any of these customers, whether due to the use of their own integrated circuit products, our competitors' integrated circuit products or otherwise, would reduce our revenues and could harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected results of operations, and a delay of significant purchases, even if only temporary, would reduce our revenues in the period of the delay. any such reduction in revenues would also impact our cash resources available for other purposes, such as research and development. further, the concentration of device share among a few companies, and the corresponding purchasing power of these companies, may result in lower prices for our products which, if not accompanied by a sufficient increase in the volume of purchases of our products, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and margins. in addition, the timing and size of purchases by our significant customers may be impacted by the timing of such customers' new or next generation product introductions, over which we have no control, and the timing and/or success of such introductions may cause our revenues and results of operations to fluctuate. accordingly, if current industry dynamics and concentrations continue, our qct segment's revenues will continue to depend largely upon, and be impacted by, future purchases, and the timing and size of any such future purchases, by these significant customers. further, apple purchases our mobile data modem (mdm) products, which do not include our integrated application processor technology, and which have lower revenue and margin contributions than our combined modem and application processor products. to the extent apple takes device share from our other customers who purchase our integrated modem and application processor products, our revenues and margins may be negatively impacted. further, companies that develop hlos for devices, including leading technology companies, now sell their own devices. if we fail to effectively partner or continue partnering with these companies, or with their partners or customers, they may decide not to purchase (either directly or through their contract manufacturers), or to reduce or discontinue their purchases of, our integrated circuit products. in addition, there has been and continues to be litigation among certain of our customers and other industry participants, and the potential outcomes of such litigation, including but not limited to injunctions against devices that incorporate our products and/or intellectual property, or rulings on certain patent law or patent licensing issues that create new legal precedent, could impact our business, particularly if such action impacts one of our larger customers. although we have more than 300 licensees, our qtl segment derives a significant portion of its revenues from a limited number of licensees, which increasingly includes a small number of chinese oems. in the event that one or more of our significant licensees fail to meet their reporting and/or payment obligations, or we are unable to renew or modify one or more of such license agreements, including standard-essential patent only license agreements, under similar terms, our revenues, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely impacted. moreover, the future growth and success of our core licensing business will depend in part on the ability of our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver high-volume products that achieve and sustain customer acceptance. we have no control over the product development, sales efforts or pricing of products by our licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. reductions in the average selling prices of wireless devices sold by our licensees, without a sufficient increase in the volumes of such devices sold, would generally have an adverse effect on our licensing revenues. such adverse impact may be muted by the per unit royalty caps that apply to certain categories of complete wireless devices, namely smartphones, tablets and laptops. we derive a significant portion of our consolidated revenues from the premium-tier device segment. if sales of premium-tier devices decrease, and/or sales of our premium-tier integrated circuit products decrease, our results of operations could be negatively affected. 21 we derive a significant portion of our revenues from the premium-tier device segment, and we expect this trend to continue in the foreseeable future. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, slowing growth in the premium-tier device segment due to, among other factors, lengthening replacement cycles in developed regions, where premium-tier smartphones are common; increasing consumer demand in emerging regions, particularly china and india, where premium-tier smartphones are less common and replacement cycles are on average longer than in developed regions and are continuing to lengthen; and/or a maturing premium-tier smartphone industry in which demand is increasingly driven by new product launches and/or innovation cycles. in addition, as discussed in the prior risk factor, our industry is experiencing concentration of device share among a few companies at the premium tier, which gives them significant supply chain leverage. further, those companies may utilize their own internally-developed integrated circuit products, or our competitors' integrated circuit products, rather than our products in all or a portion of their devices. these dynamics may result in lower prices for and/or reduced sales of our premium-tier integrated circuit products. a reduction in sales of premium-tier devices, or a reduction in sales of our premium-tier integrated circuit products (which have a higher revenue and margin contribution than our lower-tier integrated circuit products), may reduce our revenues and margins and may harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected financial results. any such reduction in revenues would also impact our cash resources available for other purposes, such as research and development. efforts by some communications equipment manufacturers or their customers to avoid paying fair and reasonable royalties for the use of our intellectual property may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources and may result in legal decisions and/or actions by governments, courts, regulators or agencies, standards development organizations (sdos) or other industry organizations that harm our business. from time to time, companies initiate various strategies to attempt to renegotiate, mitigate and/or eliminate their need to pay royalties to us for the use of our intellectual property. these strategies have included: (i) litigation, often alleging infringement of patents held by such companies, patent misuse, patent exhaustion, patent invalidity and/or unenforceability of our patents and/or licenses, that we do not license our patents on fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory (frand) terms, or some form of unfair competition or competition law violation; (ii) taking positions contrary to our understanding of their contracts with us; (iii) appeals to governmental authorities; (iv) collective action, including working with wireless operators, standards bodies, other like-minded companies and other organizations, on both formal and informal bases, to adopt intellectual property policies and practices that could have the effect of limiting returns on intellectual property innovations; (v) lobbying governmental regulators and elected officials for the purpose of seeking the reduction of royalty rates or the base on which royalties are calculated, of seeking to impose some form of compulsory licensing and/or of weakening a patent holder's ability to enforce its rights or obtain a fair return for such rights; and (vi) licensees using various strategies to attempt to shift their royalty obligation to their suppliers that results in lowering the wholesale (i.e., licensee's) selling price on which the royalty is calculated. in addition, certain licensees have disputed, underreported, underpaid, not reported and/or not paid royalties owed to us under their license agreements or reported to us in a manner that is not in compliance with their contractual obligations, and certain companies have yet to enter into or have delayed entering into or renewing license agreements with us for their use of our intellectual property, and licensees and/or companies may continue to do so in the future. the fact that one or more licensees dispute, underreport, underpay, do not report and/or do not pay royalties owed to us may encourage other licensees to take similar actions and may encourage other licensees or unlicensed companies to delay entering into, or not enter into, new license agreements. further, to the extent such licensees and/or companies increase their device share, the negative impact of their underreporting, underpayment, non-payment and/or non-reporting on our business, revenues, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows will be exacerbated. we are currently subject to various litigation and governmental investigations and/or proceedings, some of which have arisen and may continue to arise out of the strategies described above. certain legal matters are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. depending on the type of matter, various remedies that could result from an unfavorable resolution include, among others, injunctions, monetary damages or fines or other orders to pay money, the issuance of orders to cease certain conduct and/or modify our business practices, such as requiring us to reduce our royalty rates, reduce the base on which our royalties are calculated, grant patent licenses to chipset manufacturers and/or modify or renegotiate our existing license agreements, and/or determinations that all or portions of our license agreements are invalid or unenforceable. in addition, decisions or orders arising out of governmental investigations or proceedings could require us to renegotiate, or could encourage or embolden our licensees to demand to renegotiate, their license agreements with us (which could be on terms that are less favorable to us than existing terms), and such licensees may underreport, underpay, not report 22 or not pay royalties owed to us pending the conclusion of such negotiations. further, a governmental body in a particular country or region may assert, and may be successful in imposing, remedies with effects that extend beyond the borders of that country or region. see also the risk factor entitled changes in our patent licensing practices, whether due to governmental investigations, private legal proceedings challenging those practices or otherwise, could adversely impact our business and results of operations. in addition, in connection with our participation in sdos, we, like other patent owners, generally have made contractual commitments to such organizations to license those of our patents that would necessarily be infringed by standard-compliant products as set forth in those commitments. some manufacturers and users of standard-compliant products advance interpretations of these commitments that are adverse to our licensing business, including interpretations that would limit the amount of royalties that we could collect on the licensing of our patent portfolio. further, some companies or entities have proposed significant changes to existing intellectual property policies for implementation by sdos and other industry organizations with the goal of significantly devaluing standard-essential patents. for example, some have put forth proposals which would require a maximum aggregate intellectual property royalty rate for the use of all standard-essential patents owned by all of the member companies to be applied to the selling price of any product implementing the relevant standard. they have further proposed that such maximum aggregate royalty rate be apportioned to each member company with standard-essential patents based upon the number of standard-essential patents held by such company. others have proposed that injunctions not be an available remedy for infringement of standard-essential patents and/or have made proposals that could severely limit damage awards and other remedies by courts for patent infringement (e.g., by severely limiting the base upon which the royalty percentage may be applied). a number of these strategies are purportedly based on interpretations of the policies of certain sdos concerning the licensing of patents that are or may be essential to industry standards and on our (and/or other companies') alleged failure to abide by these policies. some sdos, courts and governmental agencies have adopted and may in the future adopt some or all of these interpretations or proposals in a manner adverse to our interests, including in litigation to which we may not be a party. we expect that such proposals, interpretations and strategies will continue in the future, and if successful, our business model would be harmed, either by limiting or eliminating our ability to collect royalties (or by reducing the royalties we can collect) on all or a portion of our patent portfolio, limiting our return on investment with respect to new technologies, limiting our ability to seek injunctions against infringers of our standard-essential patents, constraining our ability to make licensing commitments when submitting our technology for inclusion in future standards (which could make our technology less likely to be included in such standards) or forcing us to work outside of sdos or other industry groups to promote our new technologies, and our revenues, results of operations and/or cash flows could be negatively impacted. in addition, the legal and other costs associated with asserting or defending our positions have been and continue to be significant. we assume that such challenges, regardless of their merits, will continue into the foreseeable future and will require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources. our business, particularly our licensing business, may suffer as a result of adverse rulings in government investigations or proceedings. we are currently subject to various governmental investigations and/or proceedings, particularly with respect to our licensing business, and certain such matters are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. key allegations in those matters include, among others, that we do not license our cellular standard-essential patents separately from our other patents, that we violate frand licensing commitments by refusing to grant licenses to chipset makers, that our royalty rates are too high and/or that the base on which our royalties are calculated should be something less than the wholesale (i.e., licensee's) selling price of the applicable device (minus certain permitted deductions). the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. depending on the type of matter, various remedies that could result from an unfavorable resolution include, among others, injunctions, monetary damages or fines or other orders to pay money, and/or the issuance of orders to cease certain conduct and/or modify our business practices, such as requiring us to reduce our royalty rates, reduce the base on which our royalties are calculated, grant patent licenses to chipset manufacturers and/or modify or renegotiate our existing license agreements, and/or determinations that all or portions of our license agreements are invalid or unenforceable. in addition, decisions or orders arising out of such governmental investigations or proceedings could require us to renegotiate, or could encourage or embolden our licensees to demand to renegotiate, their license agreements with us (which could be on terms that are less favorable to us than existing terms), and such licensees may underreport, underpay, not report or not pay royalties owed to us pending the conclusion of such negotiations. further, a governmental body in a particular country or region may assert, and may be successful in imposing, remedies with effects that extend beyond the borders of that country or region. see also the risk factor entitled 23 changes in our patent licensing practices, whether due to governmental investigations, private legal proceedings challenging those practices or otherwise, could adversely impact our business and results of operations. changes in our patent licensing practices, whether due to governmental investigations, private legal proceedings challenging those practices or otherwise, could adversely impact our business and results of operations. we are currently subject to various governmental investigations and private legal proceedings challenging our patent licensing practices as described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. key allegations in those matters include, among others, that we do not license our cellular standard-essential patents separately from our other patents, that we violate frand licensing commitments by refusing to grant licenses to chipset makers, that our royalty rates are too high and/or that the base on which our royalties are calculated should be something less than the wholesale (i.e., licensee's) selling price of the applicable device (minus certain permitted deductions). we believe that the ultimate intent of these investigations and legal proceedings is to reduce the amount of royalties that licensees are required to pay to us for their use of our intellectual property. we have historically licensed our cellular standard-essential patents together with our other patents that may be useful to licensed products because licensees typically have desired to obtain the commercial benefits of receiving such broad patent rights from us. however, we also have licensed only our cellular standard-essential patents to certain licensees who have requested such licenses. in addition, in connection with our resolution with the china national development and reform commission (ndrc), our standard practice in china since 2015 is to offer licenses to our 3g and 4g standard-essential chinese patents for devices sold for use in china separately from our other patents. in addition, we offer licenses to only our cellular standard-essential patents (including 3g, 4g and 5g) for both single mode and multi-mode devices worldwide. a number of our licensees have entered into standard-essential patent only agreements on a worldwide basis, and we expect more of our licensees may do so in the future. our royalty rates for licenses to only our cellular standard-essential patents are lower than our royalty rates for licenses to substantially all of our patent portfolio. if more licensees choose a license to only our cellular standard-essential patents instead of a portfolio license than has historically been the case, our licensing revenues and earnings would be negatively impacted unless we were able to license our other patents at rates that offset all or a portion of any difference between the royalties previously received for licenses of substantially all of our patent portfolio as compared to licenses of only our cellular standard-essential patents and/or there was a sufficient increase in the overall volume of sales of devices upon which royalties are paid. if we were required to grant patent licenses to chipset manufacturers (i.e., to implement a more complex, tiered licensing structure in which we license certain portions of our patent portfolio to chipset manufacturers and other portions to device manufacturers), we would incur additional transaction costs, which may be significant, and we could incur delays in recognizing revenues until license negotiations were completed. in addition, our licensing revenues and earnings would be negatively impacted if we were not able to obtain, in the aggregate, equivalent revenues under such a multi-level licensing structure. if we were required to reduce the royalty rates we charge under our patent license agreements, our revenues, earnings and/or cash flows would be negatively impacted absent a sufficient increase in the volume of sales of devices upon which royalties are paid. similarly, if we were required to reduce the base on which our royalties are calculated, our revenues, results of operations and/or cash flows would be negatively impacted unless there was a sufficient increase in the volume of sales of devices upon which royalties are paid and/or we were able to increase our royalty rates to offset the decrease in revenues resulting from such lower royalty base (assuming the absolute royalty dollars were below any relevant royalty caps). to the extent that we were required to implement any of these new licensing practices by modifying or renegotiating our existing license agreements, we would incur additional transaction costs, which may be significant, and we could incur delays in recognizing revenues until license negotiations were completed. the impact of any such changes to our licensing practices could vary widely and by jurisdiction, depending on the specific outcomes and the geographic scope of such outcomes. in addition, if we were required to make modifications to our licensing practices in one jurisdiction, licensees and/or governmental agencies in other jurisdictions may attempt to obtain similar outcomes for themselves and/or for such other jurisdictions, as applicable. the enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive, could fail to prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights, could result in the loss of our ability to enforce one or more patents, and/or could be adversely affected by changes in patent laws, by laws in certain foreign jurisdictions that may not effectively protect our intellectual property rights and/or by ineffective enforcement of laws in such jurisdictions. 24 we rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, international treaties and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes, including our patent portfolio. policing unauthorized use of our products, technologies and proprietary information is difficult and time consuming. the steps we have taken have not always prevented, and we cannot be certain the steps we will take in the future will prevent, the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary intellectual property rights as fully or as readily as u.s. laws or where the enforcement of such laws may be lacking or ineffective. some industry participants who have a vested interest in devaluing patents in general, or standard-essential patents in particular, have mounted attacks on certain patent systems, increasing the likelihood of changes to established patent laws. in the united states, there is continued discussion regarding potential patent law changes and current and potential future litigation regarding patents, the outcomes of which could be detrimental to our licensing business. the laws in certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including certain countries in asia, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws in the united states. we expect that the european union will adopt a unitary patent system in the next few years that may broadly impact that region's patent regime. we cannot predict with certainty the long-term effects of any potential changes. in addition, we cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country or the practices of any standards bodies, foreign or domestic, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing or the adoption of standards, will not be changed in the future in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technologies. we have had, and may in the future have, difficulty in certain circumstances in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights and/or contracts, including collecting royalties for use of our patent portfolio due to, among others: refusal by certain licensees to report and/or pay all or a portion of the royalties they owe to us; policies of foreign governments; challenges to our licensing practices under competition laws; adoption of mandatory licensing provisions by foreign jurisdictions (either with controlled/regulated royalties or royalty free); failure of foreign courts to recognize and enforce judgments of contract breach and damages issued by courts in the united states; and/or challenges before competition agencies to our licensing business and/or the pricing and integration of additional features and functionality into our chipset products. certain licensees have disputed, underreported, underpaid, not reported and/or not paid royalties owed to us under their license agreements with us or reported to us in a manner that is not in compliance with their contractual obligations, and certain companies have yet to enter into or have delayed entering into or renewing license agreements for their use of our intellectual property, and such licensees and/or companies may continue to do so in the future. the fact that one or more licensees dispute, underreport, underpay, do not report and/or do not pay royalties owed to us may encourage other licensees to take similar actions and may encourage other licensees or unlicensed companies to delay entering into, or not enter into, new license agreements. additionally, although our license agreements provide us with the right to audit the books and records of licensees, audits can be expensive, time consuming, incomplete and subject to dispute. further, certain licensees may not comply with the obligation to provide full access to their books and records. to the extent we do not aggressively enforce our rights under our license agreements, licensees may not comply with their existing license agreements, and to the extent we do not aggressively pursue unlicensed companies to enter into license agreements with us for their use of our intellectual property, other unlicensed companies may not enter into license agreements. similarly, we provide access to certain of our intellectual property and/or proprietary and/or confidential business information to our direct and indirect customers and licensees, who may wrongfully use such intellectual property and/or information and/or wrongfully disclose such intellectual property and/or information to third parties, including our competitors. we have entered into litigation and/or arbitration in the past and may need to further litigate and/or arbitrate in the future to enforce our contract and/or intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. we are currently engaged in litigation matters related to protecting or enforcing our contract and/or intellectual property rights, and certain such matters are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. as a result of any such litigation and/or arbitration, we could lose our ability to enforce one or more patents, portions of our license agreements could be determined to be invalid or unenforceable (which may in turn result in other licensees either not complying with their existing license agreements and/or initiating litigation) and/or we could incur substantial costs. any action we take to enforce our contract or intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our results of operations and/or cash flows. further, even a positive resolution to our enforcement efforts may take time to conclude, which may reduce our revenues and cash resources available for other purposes, such as research and development, in the periods prior to conclusion. see also the risk factor entitled changes in our patent licensing practices, whether due to governmental investigations, private legal proceedings challenging those practices or otherwise, could adversely impact our business and results of operations. our growth increasingly depends on our ability to extend our technologies, products and services into new and expanded product areas, such as rffe, and adjacent industry segments and/or applications outside of traditional cellular 25 industries, such as automotive, iot and networking, among others. our research, development and other investments in these new and expanded product areas and industry segments, and related technologies, products and services, as well as in our existing technologies, products and services and new technologies, such as 5g, may not generate operating income or contribute to future results of operations that meet our expectations. our industry is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions, and we must make substantial research, development and other investments, such as acquisitions, in new products, services and technologies to compete successfully. technological innovations generally require significant research and development efforts before they are commercially viable. while we continue to invest significant resources toward advancements primarily in support of 4g- and 5g-based technologies, we also innovate across a broad spectrum of opportunities to deploy new and expanded products and enter into adjacent industry segments and/or applications by leveraging our existing technical and business expertise and/or through acquisitions. in particular, our future growth significantly depends on new and expanded product areas, such as rffe, and adjacent industry segments and/or applications, such as automotive, iot (including the connected home, smart cities, wearables, voice and music and robotics), networking, computing and ai, such as machine learning, among others; our ability to develop leading and cost-effective technologies, products and services for new and expanded product areas and adjacent industry segments; and third parties incorporating our technology, products and services into devices used in these product areas, industry segments and/or applications. accordingly, we intend to continue to make substantial investments in these new and expanded product areas, adjacent industry segments and/or applications, and in developing new products, services and technologies for these product areas, industry segments and/or applications. our growth also depends significantly on our ability to develop 5g technologies, and to develop and commercialize products using 5g technologies. however, our research, development and other investments in these new and expanded product areas, adjacent industry segments and/or applications, and corresponding technologies, products and services, as well as in our existing, technologies, products and services and new technologies, such as 5g, use of licensed, shared and unlicensed spectrum, and convergence of cellular and wi-fi, may not succeed due to, among other reasons: new industry segments, applications and/or consumer demand may not develop and/or grow as anticipated; our strategies and/or the strategies of our customers, licensees or partners may not be successful; improvements in alternate technologies in ways that reduce the advantages we anticipate from our investments; competitors' technologies, products or services being more cost effective, having more capabilities or fewer limitations or being brought to market faster than our new technologies, products and services; and competitors having longer operating histories in industry segments that are new to us. we may also underestimate the costs of or overestimate the future revenues and/or margins that could result from these investments, and these investments may not, or may take many years to, generate material returns. further, the automotive industry is subject to long design-in time frames, long product life cycles and a high degree of regulatory and safety requirements, necessitating suppliers to the industry to comply with stringent qualification processes, very low defect rates and high reliability standards, all of which results in a significant barrier to entry and increased costs. if our new technologies, products and/or services are not successful, or are not successful in the time frame we anticipate, we may incur significant costs and/or asset impairments, our business may not grow as anticipated, our revenues and/or margins may be negatively impacted, and/or our reputation may be harmed. there are numerous risks associated with our operation and control of the manufacturing facilities of our joint venture with tdk, rf360 holdings, including a higher portion of fixed costs relative to a fabless model, environmental compliance and liability, exposure to natural disasters, timely supply of equipment and materials and manufacturing difficulties. manufacturing facilities are characterized by a higher portion of fixed costs relative to a fabless model. in less favorable industry environments, in particular, we may be faced with a decline in the utilization rates of our manufacturing facilities due to decreases in demand for our products. during such periods, our manufacturing facilities could operate at lower capacity levels, while the fixed costs associated with full capacity continue to be incurred, resulting in lower gross profit. we are subject to many environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate our manufacturing facilities, which govern, among other things, emissions of pollutants into the air, wastewater discharges, the use and handling of hazardous substances, waste disposal, the investigation and remediation of soil and ground water contamination and the health and safety of our employees. we are also required to obtain and maintain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. we cannot make assurances that we will be at all times in compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. certain environmental laws impose strict, and in certain circumstances, joint and several, liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances. certain of these laws also assess liability on persons who arrange for hazardous 26 substances to be sent to disposal or treatment facilities when such facilities are found to be contaminated. in addition, we could also be held liable for consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances or other environmental damage. we have manufacturing facilities in asia and europe. if tsunamis, flooding, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters or geopolitical conflicts were to damage, destroy or disrupt our manufacturing facilities, it could disrupt our operations, delay new production and shipments of inventory or result in costly repairs, replacements or other costs. in addition, natural disasters or geopolitical conflicts may result in disruptions in transportation, distribution channels or supply chains, or significant increases in the prices of raw materials. our manufacturing operations depend on securing raw materials and other supplies in adequate quality and quantity in a timely manner from multiple suppliers, and in some cases, we rely on a limited number of suppliers, particularly in asia. accordingly, there may be cases where supplies of raw materials and other products are interrupted by disaster, accident or some other event at a supplier, supply is suspended due to quality or other issues, or there is a shortage of supply due to a rapid increase in demand, which could impact production and prevent us from supplying products to our customers. if the supply-demand balance is disrupted, it may considerably increase costs of manufacturing due to increased prices we pay for raw materials or fuel. from time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit the amounts supplied to us or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. additionally, supply of and/or costs of raw materials may be negatively impacted by trade protection policies, such as tariffs, and/or escalating trade tensions, particularly with countries in asia. further, it may be difficult or impossible to substitute one piece of equipment for another or replace one type of material with another. a failure by our suppliers to deliver our requirements could result in disruptions to our manufacturing operations. our manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and must be continuously modified to improve yields and performance. difficulties in the production process can reduce yields or interrupt production, and as a result, we may not be able to deliver products or do so in a timely, cost-effective or competitive manner. further, to remain competitive and/or meet customer demand, we may be required to improve our facilities and process technologies and carry out extensive research and development, each of which may require investment of significant amounts of capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. the continued and future success of our licensing programs requires us to continue to evolve our patent portfolio, and our licensing programs may be impacted by the proliferation of devices in new industry segments such as automotive and iot, as well as the need to extend license agreements that are expiring and/or to cover additional future patents. we own a very strong portfolio of issued and pending patents related to 3g, 4g, 5g and other technologies. it is critical that we continue to evolve our patent portfolio, particularly in 5g. if we do not maintain a strong portfolio that is applicable to current and future standards, products and services, particularly 5g, our future licensing revenues could be negatively impacted. in addition, new connectivity and other services are emerging that rely on devices that may or may not be used on traditional cellular networks, such as devices used in the iot and automotive industry segments. we also seek to diversify and broaden our technology licensing programs to new industry segments in which we can utilize our technology leadership. standards, even de facto standards, that develop as these technologies mature, in particular those that do not include a base level of interoperability, may impact our ability to obtain royalties at all or that are equivalent to those that we receive for products used in cellular communications. although we believe that our patented technologies are essential and useful to the commercialization of such services, any royalties we receive may be lower than those we receive from our current licensing program. further, the licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date. as a result, there are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us. additionally, many of our license agreements (including essentially all of our agreements in china and our recent worldwide sep only agreements) are effective for a specified term. in order to license or to obtain a license to such later patents or after the expiration of a specified term, or to receive royalties after the specified time period, we will need to extend or modify such license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees. accordingly, to the extent not renewed on their terms or by election for an additional (generally multi-year) period, if applicable, we will need to extend or modify such license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees more frequently than we have done historically. we might not be able to renew those license agreements, or enter into new license agreements, in the future without affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees, and such modifications or new agreements may negatively impact our revenues. if there is a delay in renewing a license agreement prior to its expiration, there would be a delay in our ability to recognize revenues related to that licensee's product sales. 27 further, if we are unable to reach agreement on such modifications or new agreements, it could result in patent infringement litigation with such companies. we depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for the procurement, manufacture and testing of our products manufactured in a fabless production model. if we fail to execute supply strategies that provide technology leadership, supply assurance and low cost, our business and results of operations may be harmed. we are also subject to order and shipment uncertainties that could negatively impact our results of operations. our qct segment primarily utilizes a fabless production model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. other than the manufacturing facilities we now operate through our rf360 holdings joint venture, we rely on independent third-party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits. our suppliers are also responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. we employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing models to purchase our integrated circuits. under the turnkey model, our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. under the two-stage manufacturing model, we purchase die in singular or wafer form from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-party suppliers for manufacturing services such as wafer bump, probe, assembly and the majority of our final test requirements. the semiconductor manufacturing foundries that supply products to our qct segment are primarily located in asia, as are our primary warehouses where we store finished goods for fulfillment of customer orders. the following could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands and/or negatively impact our revenues, business operations, profitability and/or cash flows: a reduction, interruption, delay or limitation in our product supply sources; a failure by our suppliers to procure raw materials or to provide or allocate adequate manufacturing or test capacity for our products; our suppliers' inability to react to shifts in product demand or an increase in raw material or component prices; our suppliers' delay in developing leading process technologies, or inability to develop or maintain leading process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies; the loss of a supplier or the inability of a supplier to meet performance, quality or yield specifications or delivery schedules; additional expense and/or production delays as a result of qualifying a new supplier and commencing volume production or testing in the event of a loss of or a decision to add or change a supplier; and/or natural disasters or geopolitical conflicts, particularly in asia, impacting our suppliers. additionally, supply of and/or costs of raw materials may be negatively impacted by trade protection policies, such as tariffs, and/or escalating trade tensions, particularly with countries in asia. while we have established alternate suppliers for certain technologies, we rely on sole- or limited-source suppliers for certain products, subjecting us to significant risks, including: possible shortages of raw materials or manufacturing capacity; poor product performance; and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability and yields, quality assurance, quantity and costs. to the extent we have established alternate suppliers, these suppliers may require significant levels of support to bring complex technologies to production. as a result, we may invest a significant amount of effort and resources and incur higher costs to support and maintain such alternate suppliers. further, any future consolidation of foundry suppliers could increase our vulnerability to sole- or limited-source arrangements and reduce our suppliers' willingness to negotiate pricing, which could negatively impact our ability to achieve cost reductions and/or which could increase our manufacturing costs. our arrangements with our suppliers may obligate us to incur costs to manufacture and test our products that do not decrease at the same rate as decreases in pricing to our customers. our ability, and that of our suppliers, to develop or maintain leading process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies, and to effectively compete with the manufacturing processes and performance of our competitors, could impact our ability to introduce new products and meet customer demand, could increase our costs (possibly decreasing our margins) and could subject us to the risk of excess inventories. our inability to meet customer demand due to sole- or limited-sourcing and/or the additional costs that we incur because of these or other supply constraints or because of the need to support alternate suppliers could negatively impact our business, our results of operations and/or cash flows. although we have long-term contracts with our suppliers, many of these contracts do not provide for long-term capacity commitments. to the extent we do not have firm commitments from our suppliers over a specific time period or for any specific quantity, our suppliers may allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production and testing of products 28 for their other customers while reducing or limiting capacity to manufacture or test our products. accordingly, capacity for our products may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. to the extent we do obtain long-term capacity commitments, we may incur additional costs related to those commitments and/or make non-refundable payments for capacity commitments that are not used. one or more of our suppliers or potential alternate suppliers may manufacture cdma- or ofdma-based integrated circuits that compete with our products. such suppliers could elect to allocate raw materials and manufacturing capacity to their own products and reduce or limit deliveries to us to our detriment. in addition, we may not receive reasonable pricing, manufacturing or delivery terms from our suppliers. we cannot guarantee that the actions of our suppliers will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost of sales. additionally, we place orders with our suppliers using our and/or our customers' forecasts of customer demand, which are based on a number of assumptions and estimates. as we move to smaller geometry process technologies, the manufacturing lead-time increases. as a result, the orders we place with our suppliers are generally only partially covered by commitments from our customers. if we, or our customers, overestimate customer demand that is not under a binding commitment from our customer, we may experience increased excess and/or obsolete inventory, which would negatively impact our results of operations. claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property could adversely affect our business. from time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights against our products or products using our technologies or other technologies used in our industry. these claims have resulted and may again result in our involvement in litigation. we may not prevail in such litigation given, among other factors, the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if any of our products or services were found to infringe another company's intellectual property rights, we could be subject to an injunction or be required to redesign our products or services, which could be costly, or to license such rights and/or pay damages or other compensation to such other company. if we are unable to redesign our products or services, license such intellectual property rights used in our products or services or otherwise distribute our products (e.g., through a licensed supplier), we could be prohibited from making and selling such products or providing such services. in any potential dispute involving other companies' patents or other intellectual property, our chipset foundries, semiconductor assembly and test providers and customers could also become the targets of litigation. we are contingently liable under certain product sales, services, license and other agreements to indemnify certain customers, chipset foundries and semiconductor assembly and test service providers against certain types of liability and/or damages arising from qualifying claims of patent infringement by products or services sold or provided by us, or by intellectual property provided by us to our chipset foundries and semiconductor assembly and test service providers. reimbursements under indemnification arrangements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and/or cash flows. furthermore, any such litigation could severely disrupt the supply of our products and the businesses of our chipset customers and their customers, which in turn could hurt our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our chipset sales and/or reductions in our licensees' sales, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. any claims, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming to address, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. we expect that we may continue to be involved in litigation and may have to appear in front of administrative bodies (such as the united states international trade commission) to defend against patent assertions against our products by companies, some of whom are attempting to gain competitive advantage or leverage in licensing negotiations. we may not be successful in such proceedings, and if we are not, the range of possible outcomes is very broad and may include, for example, monetary damages or fines or other orders to pay money, royalty payments, injunctions on the sale of certain of our integrated circuit products (and/or on the sale of our customers' devices using such products) and/or the issuance of orders to cease certain conduct and/or modify our business practices. further, a governmental body in a particular country or region may assert, and may be successful in imposing, remedies with effects that extend beyond the borders of that country or region. in addition, a negative outcome in any such proceeding could severely disrupt the business of our chipset customers and their wireless operator customers, which in turn could harm our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our worldwide chipset sales and/or a reduction in our licensees' sales to wireless operators, causing corresponding declines in our chipset and/or licensing revenues. certain legal matters, including certain claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property, are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. 29 we may engage in strategic acquisitions, transactions or make investments, or be unable to consummate planned strategic acquisitions, which could adversely affect our results of operations or fail to enhance stockholder value. we engage in strategic acquisitions and other transactions, including joint ventures, and make investments, which we believe are important to the future of our business, with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. we acquire businesses and other assets, including patents, technology, wireless spectrum and other intangible assets, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase minority equity interests in or make loans to companies that may be private and early-stage. our strategic activities are generally focused on opening or expanding opportunities for our technologies and supporting the design and introduction of new products and services (or enhancing existing products or services) for voice and data communications and new industry segments. recent material transactions include our rf360 holdings joint venture with tdk corporation and our acquisition of csr plc. many of our strategic activities entail a high degree of risk and require the use of domestic and/or foreign capital, and investments may not become liquid for several years after the date of the investment, if at all. our strategic activities may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies, products or services. we may underestimate the costs and/or overestimate the benefits, including product, revenue, cost and other synergies and growth opportunities that we expect to realize, and we may not achieve those benefits. in some cases, we may be required to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of companies in which we have acquired ownership interests. in addition, we may record impairment charges related to our strategic activities. any losses or impairment charges that we incur related to strategic activities will have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations, and we may continue to incur new or additional losses related to strategic assets or investments that we have not fully impaired or exited. achieving the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions, including joint ventures and other strategic investments in which we have management and operational control, depends in part upon our ability to integrate the businesses in an efficient and effective manner and achieve anticipated synergies, and we may not be successful in these efforts. such integration is complex and time consuming and involves significant challenges, including, among others: retaining key employees; successfully integrating new employees, technology, products, processes, operations (including manufacturing operations), sales and distribution channels, business models and business systems; retaining customers and suppliers of the businesses; consolidating research and development and/or supply operations; minimizing the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business matters; consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; and managing the increased scale, complexity and globalization of our business, operations and employee base. we may not derive any commercial value from associated technologies or products or from future technologies or products based on these technologies, and we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by indemnification protection that we may obtain, and we may become subject to litigation. additionally, we may not be successful in entering or expanding into new sales or distribution channels, business or operational models (including manufacturing), geographic regions, industry segments and/or categories of products served by or adjacent to the associated businesses or in addressing potential new opportunities that may arise out of the combination. if we do not achieve the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions or other strategic activities, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, and we may not enhance stockholder value by engaging in these transactions. in fiscal 2018, we terminated our proposed acquisition of nxp since the acquisition had not been approved by the state administration for market regulation (samr) in china by the date specified in the acquisition agreement. as a result, we will not realize the benefits that we anticipated from the acquisition, including, but not limited to, increased revenues; accelerated revenue diversification; significantly expanded addressable markets and opportunities; accelerated entry into new industry segments and expansion in existing industry segments; new and expanded product offerings and technologies; accelerated expansion of sales and distribution channels; cost and other synergies; and earnings accretion from the acquisition. in addition, future acquisitions may now be more difficult, complex or expensive to the extent that our reputation for our ability to consummate acquisitions has been harmed. further, if u.s./china trade relations remain strained, our ability to consummate any transaction that would require approval from samr may be severely impacted. if we are unsuccessful in executing our cost plan, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we announced a cost plan designed to align our cost structure to our long-term margin targets. as part of this plan, we are implementing a series of targeted reductions across our businesses to reduce annual costs by $1 billion, excluding incremental costs resulting from any future acquisition of a business. we expect these cost reductions to be fully captured in fiscal 2019. we cannot provide assurance that our cost plan will be successful, that anticipated cost savings will be realized, that our operations, business and financial results will improve and/or that these efforts will not disrupt our operations (beyond what is intended). our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits within the expected time frames is subject 30 to many estimates and assumptions, which are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. further, we may experience delays in the timing of these efforts and/or higher than expected or unanticipated costs in implementing them. moreover, changes in the size, alignment or organization of our workforce could adversely affect employee morale and retention, relations with customers and business partners, our ability to develop and deliver products and services as anticipated and/or impair our ability to realize our current or future business and financial objectives. if we do not succeed in these efforts, if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, if our estimates and assumptions are not correct, if we experience delays or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. we are subject to various laws, regulations, policies and standards. our business may suffer as a result of existing, or new or amended, laws, regulations, policies or standards and/or our failure or inability to comply with laws, regulations, policies or standards. our business, products and services, and those of our customers and licensees, are subject to various laws and regulations globally, as well as government policies and the specifications of international, national and regional communications standards bodies. compliance with existing laws, regulations, policies and standards, the adoption of new laws, regulations, policies or standards, changes in the interpretation of existing laws, regulations, policies or standards, changes in the regulation of our activities by a government or standards body and/or rulings in court, regulatory, administrative or other proceedings relating to such laws, regulations, policies or standards, including, among others, those affecting licensing practices, competitive business practices, the use of our technology or products, protection of intellectual property, trade and trade protection, including tariffs, foreign currency, investments or loans, spectrum availability and license issuance, adoption of standards, the provision of device subsidies by wireless operators to their customers, taxation, export control, privacy and data protection, environmental protection, health and safety, labor and employment, human rights, corporate governance, public disclosure or business conduct could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. government policies, particularly in china, that regulate the amount and timing of funds that may flow out of a country may impact the timing of our receipt of payments from our customers and/or licensees in such country, which may negatively impact our cash flows. delays in government approvals or other governmental activities that could result from, among others, a decrease in or a lack of funding for certain agencies or branches of the government and/or political changes, could result in our incurring higher costs, could negatively impact our ability to timely consummate strategic transactions and/or could have other negative impacts on our business and the businesses of our customers and licensees. national, state and local environmental laws and regulations affect our operations around the world. these laws may make it more expensive to manufacture, have manufactured and sell products, and our costs could increase if our vendors (e.g., suppliers, third-party manufacturers or utility companies) pass on their costs to us. the imposition of tariffs on raw materials or our products could have a negative impact on our revenues and/or results of operations. we are also subject to laws and regulations impacting the manufacturing operations of our rf360 holdings joint venture. see the risk factor entitled there are numerous risks associated with our operation and control of the manufacturing facilities of our joint venture with tdk, rf360 holdings, including a higher portion of fixed costs relative to a fabless model, environmental compliance and liability, exposure to natural disasters, timely supply of equipment and materials and manufacturing difficulties. regulations in the united states require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country (collectively, the covered countries), or were from recycled or scrap sources. other countries and/or regions are expected to impose similar requirements in the future. the verification and reporting requirements, in addition to customer demands for conflict free sourcing, impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products. further, if we are unable to determine that the conflict minerals used in our products do not directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the covered countries, we may face challenges with our customers that place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed. similarly, other laws and regulations have been adopted or proposed that require additional transparency regarding the employment practices of our suppliers, and any failure to maintain responsible sourcing practices could also adversely affect our relationships with customers and our reputation. laws, regulations, policies and standards are complex and changing and may create uncertainty regarding compliance. laws, regulations, policies and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases, and their application in practice may evolve over time. as a result, our efforts to comply may fail, particularly if there is ambiguity as to how they should be applied in practice. failure to comply with any law, regulation, policy or standard may adversely affect our business, results 31 of operations and/or cash flows. new laws, regulations, policies and standards or evolving interpretations of legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies and/or procedures and may divert management time and attention to compliance activities. our use of open source software may harm our business. certain of our software and our suppliers' software may contain or may be derived from open source software, and we have seen, and believe we will continue to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including software associated with our integrated circuit products, that incorporate open source software elements and operate in an open source environment, which, under certain open source licenses, may offer accessibility to a portion of a product's source code and may expose related intellectual property to adverse licensing conditions. licensing of such software may impose certain obligations on us if we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. for example, these obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to our customers in a manner that allows them to make such source code available to their customers or license such derivative works under a particular type of license that is different than what we customarily use to license our software. developing open source products, while adequately protecting the intellectual property rights upon which our licensing business depends, may prove burdensome and time-consuming under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage, and we may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. also, our use and our customers' use of open source software may subject our products and our customers' products to governmental scrutiny and delays in product certification, which could cause customers to view our products as less desirable than our competitors' products. while we believe we have taken appropriate steps and employ adequate controls to protect our intellectual property rights, our use of open source software presents risks that could have an adverse effect on these rights and on our business. our stock price, earnings and the fair value of our investments are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market downturns. our stock price and earnings have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock and/or earnings include those identified throughout this risk factors section, volatility of the stock market in general and technology-based companies in particular, announcements concerning us, our suppliers, our competitors or our customers or licensees and variations between our actual financial results or guidance and expectations of securities analysts or investors, among others. further, increased volatility in the financial markets and/or overall economic conditions may reduce the amounts that we realize in the future on our cash equivalents and/or marketable securities and may reduce our earnings as a result of any impairment charges that we record to reduce recorded values of marketable securities to their fair values. in the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. due to changes in our stock price, we are and may in the future be the target of securities litigation. securities litigation could result in substantial uninsured costs and divert management's attention and our resources. certain legal matters, including certain securities litigation brought against us, are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. there are risks associated with our indebtedness and our significant proposed stock repurchase program. our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur, may have negative consequences on our business, including, among others: requiring us to use cash to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends or other general corporate and other purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and/or increasing our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations to the extent a portion of our debt has variable interest rates. our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which is subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors, including factors which negatively impact our cash flows, such as licensees withholding some or all of the royalty payments they owe to us or paying fines in connection with regulatory investigations, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to, among other things: refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures; or sell selected assets. such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. in addition, any such refinancing, restructuring 32 or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all, and if prevailing interest rates at the time of any such refinancing and/or restructuring are higher than our current rates, interest expense related to such refinancing and/or restructuring would increase. if there are adverse changes in the ratings assigned to our debt securities by credit rating agencies, our borrowing costs, our ability to access debt in the future and/or the terms of such debt could be adversely affected. we have implemented a stock repurchase program to repurchase up to $30 billion of our outstanding common stock. this stock repurchase program has significantly reduced and will continue to reduce the amount of cash that we have available to fund our operations, including research and development, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, dividends and other corporate purposes; and increases our exposure to adverse economic, market, industry and competitive conditions and developments, and other changes in our business and our industry. in addition, this significant decrease in our cash reserves exacerbates the risks described above associated with our indebtedness. our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches of our information technology systems, or other misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary or confidential information. third parties regularly attempt to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems, and most of such attempts are increasingly more sophisticated. these attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, criminal hackers or state-sponsored intrusions, include trying to covertly introduce malware to our computers and networks, including those in our manufacturing operations, and impersonating authorized users, among others. such attempts could result in the misappropriation, theft, misuse, disclosure or loss or destruction of the intellectual property, or the proprietary, confidential or personal information, of us or our employees, customers, licensees, suppliers or other third parties, as well as damage to or disruptions in our information technology systems. these threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of successfully defending against them or implementing adequate preventative measures. we seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence but attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems may be successful, and in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. the misappropriation, theft, misuse, disclosure or loss or destruction of the intellectual property, or the proprietary, confidential or personal information, of us or our employees, customers, licensees, suppliers or other third parties could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives, cause us to lose business, damage our reputation, subject us to legal or regulatory proceedings, cause us to incur other loss or liability and/or otherwise adversely affect our business. we expect to continue to devote significant resources to the security of our information technology systems. in addition, employees and former employees, in particular former employees who become employees of our competitors, customers or licensees, may misappropriate, use, publish or provide to our competitors, customers or licensees our intellectual property and/or proprietary or confidential business information. similarly, we provide access to certain of our intellectual property and/or proprietary and/or confidential business information to our direct and indirect customers and licensees, who may wrongfully use such intellectual property and/or information and/or wrongfully disclose such intellectual property and/or information to third parties, including our competitors. potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including singapore where our qct segment's non-u.s. headquarters is located. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. we regularly are subject to examination of our tax returns and reports by taxing authorities in the united states federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions, most notably in countries where we earn a routine return and the tax authorities believe substantial value-add activities are performed. our current examinations are at various stages with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds. we continually assess the likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjust the income tax provision, income taxes payable and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts give rise to a revision become known. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable at september 30, 2018, the final determination of tax audits and any related legal proceedings could materially differ from amounts reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. in such case, our income tax provision, results of operations and/or cash flows in the period or periods in which that determination is made could be negatively affected. on december 22, 2017, tax reform legislation known as the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax legislation) was enacted in the united states. given the amount and complexity of the changes in tax law resulting from the tax legislation, we have not finalized the accounting for the income tax effects of the tax legislation. this includes the provisional amounts recorded related to the repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings and profits of u.s.-owned foreign subsidiaries (toll charge). further, we are in the process of analyzing the effects of new taxes due on certain foreign income, such as gilti (global intangible low-taxed income), beat (base-erosion anti-abuse tax), fdii (foreign-derived intangible income) and limitations 33 on interest expense deductions (if certain conditions apply) that are effective starting in fiscal 2019, and other provisions of the tax legislation. the impact of the tax legislation related to the toll charge may differ from this estimate, possibly materially, during the one-year measurement period due to, among other things, further refinement of our calculations, changes in interpretations and assumptions we have made, guidance that may be issued and actions we may take as a result of the tax legislation. we have tax incentives in singapore provided that we meet specified employment and other criteria, and as a result of the expiration of these incentives, our singapore tax rate is expected to increase in fiscal 2022 and again in fiscal 2027. if we do not meet the criteria required to retain such incentives, our singapore tax rate could increase prior to fiscal 2022, and our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. tax rules may change in a manner that adversely affects our future reported results of operations or the way we conduct our business. further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting (beps) project that was undertaken by the organization for economic co-operation and development (oecd). the oecd, which represents a coalition of member countries, recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles related to transfer pricing. these changes, as adopted by countries, may increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes, results of operations and/or cash flow. we have not yet determined what changes, if any, may be needed to our operations or structure to address beps. if our effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the united states or singapore, our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition could be adversely affected. global, regional or local economic conditions, or political actions including trade protection policies such as tariffs, that impact the mobile communications industry or the other industries in which we operate could negatively affect the demand for our products and services and our customers' or licensees' products and services, which may negatively affect our revenues. a decline in global, regional or local economic conditions or a slow-down in economic growth, or political actions including trade protection policies such as tariffs, particularly in geographic regions with high concentrations of wireless voice and data users or high concentrations of our customers or licensees, could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and for the products and services of our customers or licensees, particularly equipment manufacturers or others in the wireless communications industry who buy their products, such as wireless operators. any prolonged economic downturn or trade war may result in a decrease in demand for our products or technologies; the products of our customers or licensees; the insolvency of key suppliers, customers or licensees; delays in reporting and/or payments from our licensees and/or customers; failures by counterparties; and negative effects on wireless device inventories. in addition, our customers' ability to purchase or pay for our products and services and network operators' ability to upgrade their wireless networks could be adversely affected by economic conditions, leading to a reduction, cancelation or delay of orders for our products or services. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel, and on our ability to continue to identify, attract, retain and motivate them, which may become increasingly difficult in an environment of cost reductions. implementing our business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, as our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. the market for employees in our industry is extremely competitive. further, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the united states, making the pool of available talent even smaller. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our business may be harmed. currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues, harm our ability to collect receivables or increase the u.s. dollar cost of our products. our customers sell their products throughout the world in various currencies. our consolidated revenues from international customers and licensees as a percentage of our total revenues were greater than 90% in each of the last three fiscal years. adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business, revenues, results of operations and/or cash flows due to a number of factors, including, among others: our products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold outside the united states may become less price-competitive, which may result in reduced demand for those products and/or downward pressure on average selling prices; 34 certain of our revenues that are derived from products that are sold in foreign currencies could decrease, resulting in lower revenues, cash flows and margins; certain of our revenues, such as royalties, that are derived from licensee or customer sales denominated in foreign currencies could decrease, resulting in lower revenues and cash flows; our foreign suppliers may raise their prices if they are impacted by currency fluctuations, resulting in higher than expected costs and lower margins; certain of our costs that are denominated in foreign currencies could increase, resulting in higher than expected costs and cash outflows; and/or foreign exchange hedging transactions that we engage in to reduce the impact of currency fluctuations may require the payment of structuring fees, limit the u.s. dollar value of royalties from licensees' sales that are denominated in foreign currencies, cause earnings volatility if the hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting and expose us to counterparty risk if the counterparty fails to perform. failures in our products or services or in the products or services of our customers or licensees, including those resulting from security vulnerabilities, defects or errors, could harm our business. the use of devices containing our products to interact with untrusted systems or otherwise access untrusted content creates a risk of exposing the system hardware and software in those devices to malicious attacks. while we continue to focus on this issue and are taking measures to safeguard our products from cybersecurity threats, device capabilities continue to evolve, enabling more elaborate functionality and applications, and increasing the risk of security failures. further, our products are inherently complex and may contain defects or errors that are detected only when the products are in use. because our products and services are responsible for critical functions in our customers' products and/or networks, security failures, defects or errors in our products or services could have an adverse impact on us, on our customers and/or on the end users of our customers' products. such adverse impact could include shipment delays; product liability claims or recalls; write-offs of our inventories, property, plant and equipment and/or intangible assets; unfavorable purchase commitments; a shift of business to our competitors; a decrease in demand for connected devices and wireless services; damage to our reputation and our customer relationships; regulatory actions; and other financial liability or harm to our business. further, security failures, defects or errors in the products of our customers or licensees could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and/or cash flows due to a delay or decrease in demand for our products or services generally, and our premium-tier products in particular, among other factors. development of products and features in new domains of technology and the migration to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes are complex and add risk to manufacturing yields and reliability. further, manufacturing, testing, marketing and use of our products and those of our customers and licensees entail the risk of product liability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk marketable securities we have made investments in marketable equity securities of companies of varying size, style, industry and geography and changes in investment allocations may affect the price volatility of our investments. on october 27, 2016, we announced a definitive agreement under which qualcomm river holdings proposed to acquire nxp (the purchase agreement). we intended to use a substantial portion of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities to fund the nxp transaction. as a result, during fiscal 2017, we divested a substantial portion of our marketable securities portfolio, including our equity securities and fund shares. on july 26, 2018, we terminated the purchase agreement and announced that we had been authorized to repurchase up to $30 billion of our common stock. in august 2018, we completed a modified dutch auction tender offer and paid an aggregate of $5.1 billion, excluding fees and related expenses, to repurchase 76.2 million shares of our common stock. in september 2018, we entered into three accelerated share repurchase agreements to repurchase an aggregate of $16.0 billion of our common stock. the actions taken pursuant to our stock repurchase program have significantly reduced the amount of cash available to fund our investments in marketable securities. equity price risk. the recorded values of our marketable equity securities increased to $167 million at september 30, 2018 from $36 million at september 24, 2017 . a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities at september 30, 2018 would have caused a decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities of $17 million. a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities at september 24, 2017 would have caused a negligible decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities. at september 30, 2018 , there were no gross unrealized losses of our marketable equity securities. interest rate risk. we invest a portion of our cash in a number of diversified fixed- and floating-rate securities consisting of cash equivalents, marketable debt securities, debt funds and time deposits that are subject to interest rate risk. changes in the general level of interest rates can affect the fair value of our investment portfolio. if interest rates in the general economy were to rise, our holdings could lose value. as a result of divesting a substantial portion of our marketable securities portfolio and changes in portfolio allocation, the fair value of our investment portfolio is subject to lower interest rate risk. at september 30, 2018 , a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 basis points across the entire yield curve on our holdings would have resulted in a negligible decrease in the fair value of our holdings. at september 24, 2017 , a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 basis points across the entire yield curve on our holdings would have resulted in a decrease of $26 million in the fair value of our holdings. other investments equity price risk. we hold investments in non-marketable equity instruments in privately held companies that may be impacted by equity price risks. volatility in the equity markets could negatively affect our investees' ability to raise additional capital as well as our ability to realize value from our investments through initial public offerings, mergers and private sales. 57 consequently, we could incur other-than-temporary impairment losses or realized losses on all or a part of the values of our non-marketable equity investments. at september 30, 2018 and september 24, 2017 , the aggregate carrying value of our non-marketable equity investments was included in other noncurrent assets and was $1.1 billion and $982 million , respectively. debt and interest rate swap agreements interest rate risk. at september 30, 2018 , we have an aggregate principal amount of $15.5 billion of unsecured floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturity dates. we have also entered into interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $1.8 billion to effectively convert certain fixed-rate interest payments into floating-rate payments. the interest rates on our floating-rate notes and interest rate swaps are based on libor. at september 30, 2018 , a hypothetical increase in libor-based interest rates of 100 basis points would cause our interest expense to increase by $22 million on an annualized basis as it relates to our floating-rate notes and interest rate swap agreements. at september 24, 2017 , a hypothetical increase in libor-based interest rates of 100 basis points would have caused our interest expense to increase by $46 million on an annualized basis as it relates to our floating-rate notes and interest rate swap agreements. additionally, we have a commercial paper program that provides for the issuance of up to $5.0 billion of commercial paper. at september 30, 2018 , we had $1.0 billion of commercial paper outstanding, with original maturities of less than three months. changes in interest rates could affect the amounts of interest that we pay if we refinance the current outstanding commercial paper with new debt. additional information regarding our notes and related interest rate swap agreements and commercial paper program is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1. significant accounting policies and notes to consolidated financial statements, note 6. debt. foreign exchange risk we manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial counterparties. we utilize such derivative financial instruments for hedging or risk management purposes rather than for speculative purposes. counterparties to our derivative contracts are all major banking institutions. in the event of the financial insolvency or distress of a counterparty to our derivative financial instruments, we may be unable to settle transactions if the counterparty does not provide us with sufficient collateral to secure its net settlement obligations to us, which could have a negative impact on our results. a description of our foreign currency accounting policies is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1. significant accounting policies. at september 30, 2018 , our net asset related to foreign currency options designated as hedges of foreign currency risk on royalties earned from certain licensees was negligible. if our forecasted royalty revenues for currencies in which we hedge were to decline by 20% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in our hedged foreign currency, we would not incur a loss as our hedge positions would continue to be fully effective. at september 30, 2018 , our net liability related to foreign currency option and forward contracts designated as hedges of foreign currency risk on certain operating expenditure transactions was $18 million. if our forecasted operating expenditures for currencies in which we hedge were to decline by 20% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in our hedged foreign currency, we would not incur a loss as our hedge positions would continue to be fully effective. financial assets and liabilities held by consolidated subsidiaries that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. as a global company, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. as a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. while we may hedge certain transactions with non-u.s. customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. at september 30, 2018 , our net liability related to foreign currency option and forward contracts not designated as hedging instruments used to manage foreign currency risk on certain receivables and payables was negligible. if the foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in our hedged foreign currency, we would not incur a loss as the change in the fair value of the foreign currency option and forward contracts would be offset by the change in fair value of the related receivables and/or payables being economically hedged. our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate the risks discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks. 58risk factors 17 risk factors below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this annual report. readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report. we undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this annual report. readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this annual report, which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. part i item 1. business we incorporated in california in 1985 and reincorporated in delaware in 1991. we operate and report using a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the last sunday in september. our 52-week fiscal years consist of four equal fiscal quarters of 13 weeks each, and our 53-week fiscal years consist of three 13-week fiscal quarters and one 14-week fiscal quarter. the financial results for our 53-week fiscal years and our 14-week fiscal quarters will not be exactly comparable to our 52-week fiscal years and our 13-week fiscal quarters. the fiscal years ended september 29, 2019 and september 24, 2017 included 52 weeks. the fiscal year ended september 30, 2018 included 53 weeks. overview we are a global leader in the development and commercialization of foundational technologies for the wireless industry. our technologies and products are used in mobile devices and other wireless products, including network equipment, broadband gateway equipment, consumer electronic devices and other connected devices. our inventions have helped power the growth in smartphones, which have connected billions of people. we are a pioneer in 3g (third generation) and 4g (fourth generation) wireless technologies and are a leader in 5g (fifth generation) wireless technologies to empower a new era of intelligent, connected devices. our technologies and products are also used in industry segments and applications beyond mobile, including automotive, computing, iot (internet of things) and networking , allowing devices and objects to connect and communicate with each other in new ways. we derive revenues principally from sales of integrated circuit products and licensing our intellectual property, including patents and other rights. the foundational technologies we invent help power the modern mobile experience, impacting how the world connects, computes and communicates. we share these inventions broadly through our licensing program, enabling wide ecosystem access to technologies at the core of mobile innovation, and through the sale of our wireless integrated circuit platforms (also known as chips or chipsets) and other products, which accelerates consumer adoption of experiences empowered by these inventions. as a company, we collaborate across the ecosystem, including manufacturers, operators, developers, governments and industry standards organizations, to enable a global environment to drive continued progress and growth. we have a long history of driving innovation. we have played and continue to play a leading role in developing system level inventions that serve as the foundation for 3g, 4g and 5g wireless technologies. this includes the cdma (code division multiple access) and ofdma (orthogonal frequency division multiple access) families of technologies, with the latter encompassing lte (long term evolution), which, along with tdma (time division multiple access), are the primary digital technologies currently used to transmit a wireless device user's voice or data over radio waves using a public cellular wireless network. we own significant intellectual property, including patents, patent applications and trade secrets, applicable to products that implement any version of cdma and ofdma. companies in the mobile industry generally recognize that any company 4 seeking to develop, manufacture and/or sell devices or infrastructure equipment that use cdma-based and/or ofdma-based technologies will require a license or other rights to use our patents. we also develop and commercialize numerous other key technologies used in mobile and other wireless devices that help drive end-user demand, and we own substantial intellectual property related to these technologies. some of these inventions are contributed to and commercialized as industry standards, such as certain video and audio codecs, wi-fi, gps (global positioning system) and bluetooth. other technologies that we have developed and that are widely used by wireless devices are not related to any industry standards, such as operating systems, user interfaces, graphics and camera processing functionality, rf (radio frequency), rf front-end (rffe) and antenna designs and application processor architectures. our patents cover a wide range of technologies across the entire wireless system (including wireless devices and network infrastructure equipment), not just the portion of such patented technologies incorporated into chipsets. we are organized on the basis of products and services and have three reportable segments. we conduct business primarily through our qct (qualcomm cdma technologies) semiconductor business and our qtl (qualcomm technology licensing) licensing business. qct develops and supplies integrated circuits and system software based on cdma, ofdma and other technologies for use in mobile devices, wireless networks, broadband gateway equipment, consumer electronic devices, devices used in iot and automotive telematics and infotainment systems. qtl grants licenses to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products . our qsi (qualcomm strategic initiatives) reportable segment makes strategic investments. we also have nonreportable segments, including qualcomm government technologies or qgov (formerly qualcomm cyber security solutions), as well as other wireless technology and service initiatives. industry trends as the largest technology platform in the world, mobile has transformed the way we connect, compute and communicate. the scale and pace of innovation in the mobile industry, especially around connectivity and computing capabilities, is also impacting industries beyond wireless, empowering new services, new business models and new experiences. our inventions and licensing program have been integral to, and provided foundational technologies for, the evolution of the mobile industry. advancing connectivity. 3g/4g multimode mobile broadband technology has been a key innovation of mobile, providing users with fast, reliable, always-on connectivity. as of september 30, 2019, there were approximately 6.0 billion 3g/4g connections globally (cdma-based, ofdma-based and cdma/ofdma multimode) representing 76% of total mobile connections (gsma intelligence, november 2019). by 2023, global 3g/4g connections are projected to reach 7.0 billion, with approximately 88% of these connections coming from emerging regions and china (gsma intelligence, november 2019). 3g/4g multimode mobile broadband continues to be an important platform for extending the reach and potential of the internet. this is amplified in emerging regions and china, where, as of september 30, 2019, 3g/4g mobile broadband connections are estimated to be approximately seven times the number of fixed internet household connections (gsma intelligence november 2019 and pt june 2019). in china, 3g/4g multimode services have experienced strong adoption since being launched in 2013, with more than 1.4 billion connections estimated as of september 30, 2019 (gsma intelligence, november 2019). in india, mobile operators continue to expand their 3g/4g multimode services, providing consumers with the benefits of advanced mobile broadband connectivity while creating new opportunities for device manufacturers and other members of the mobile ecosystem. 3g/4g mobile broadband may be the first and, in many cases, the only way that people in these regions access the internet. the transition of wireless networks and devices to 3g/4g has not only been driven by the number of affordable handsets available in emerging regions and china, but also by the variety of flexible and affordable data plans being offered by mobile operators. with the first 5g global specifications defined in 2018 by 3gpp (3rd generation partnership project), an industry standards development organization, initial commercial 5g network deployments and device launches, which focus on enhanced mobile broadband services, began in 2019 and will continue into 2020 and beyond. 5g is designed to enhance mobile broadband services, including ultra-high definition (4k) video streaming, near-instant access to cloud services and augmented and virtual reality applications, with lower latency and multi-gigabit user data speeds, and bring more capacity and efficiency to networks, which may enable operators to offer new unlimited mobile data plans. looking ahead, we expect future releases of 5g to expand to new industries beyond traditional cellular communications and to create new business models and services, such as autonomous vehicles and artificial intelligence-based platforms designed to bring greater autonomy to manufacturing and other industrial applications (known as industrial iot), through ultra-reliable, ultra-low latency communication links. we also expect 5g will enable connecting a significant number of things (also known as iot, including the connected home, smart cities, wearables and voice and music devices), with 5 connectivity designed to meet diverse (low) power and cost requirements, as well as to address both low and high complexity applications. most 5g devices are expected to include multimode support for 3g, 4g and wi-fi, enabling service continuity where 5g has yet to be deployed and simultaneous connectivity across 4g technology, while also allowing mobile operators to utilize current network deployments. at the same time, 4g is expected to continue to evolve in parallel with the further development of 5g and become fundamental to many of the key 5g technologies (through multi-connectivity) in areas such as support for unlicensed spectrum, gigabit lte user data speeds and lte iot that meets low power and cost requirements. the first phase of 5g networks supports mobile broadband services for the smartphone form factor both in lower spectrum bands below 6 ghz (sub-6), as well as higher bands above 6 ghz, including millimeter wave (mmwave). as with previous generations of mobile networks, it will take time to deploy new 5g networks. consumer demand in smartphones. from october 2018 through september 2019, approximately 1.4 billion smartphones are estimated to have shipped globally, representing a year-over-year decrease of approximately 4% (idc, mobile phone tracker, 2019q3) . smartphone shipments in calendar 2020 are expected to be approximately flat year-over-year (idc quarterly mobile phone tracker, 2019q3). the slow-down in smartphone demand that began in the year ended september 2019, and that is expected to continue into calendar 2020, reflects further lengthening of replacement cycles, particularly in developed regions and china, where consumer demand is increasingly driven by new product launches and/or innovation cycles as the industry transitions to 5g. consumer demand for new types of experiences, combined with the needs of mobile operators and device manufacturers to provide differentiated features and services, is driving continued innovation within the smartphone. as a result, the smartphone has become the go-to device for social networking, music and video streaming, gaming, email and web browsing, among others. it is expected that 5g connectivity will drive further innovations within the smartphone and offer enhanced connectivity, which in turn will enable new applications. given its advanced capabilities and utility, the smartphone has replaced many traditional consumer electronic devices, including digital cameras, video cameras, standalone gps units, gaming devices and music players. transforming other industries. with their significant scale and highly integrated solutions, industries beyond mobile, including automotive, computing, iot and networking , among others, are leveraging the same technology innovations found in today's leading smartphones to enhance existing products and services as well as to create new products and services. our inventions that contribute to the formation of advanced cellular technologies, such as 3g/4g and now 5g connectivity, are helping to drive, and in the case of 5g accelerate the pace of, this transformation. for example, in the automotive industry, approximately 72% of new vehicles produced are projected to have cellular connectivity by 2025, compared to 40% in 2018 (strategy analytics, october 2019). in addition, the installed base of non-mobile devices with cellular connectivity, which includes iot devices among others, is projected to grow more than 150% between 2019 and 2023 (abi research, february 2019). wireless technologies overview the growth in the use of wireless devices worldwide and the demand for data services and applications requires continuous innovation to improve the user experience, support new services, increase network capacity, make use of different frequency bands and allow for dense network deployments. to meet these requirements, different wireless communications technologies continue to evolve. for nearly three decades, we have invested heavily in research and development and have developed foundational technologies that drive the continued evolution of the wireless industry, including cdma and ofdma. as a result, we have developed and acquired (and continue to develop and acquire) significant related intellectual property. this intellectual property has been incorporated into the most widely accepted and deployed cellular wireless communications technology standards, and we have licensed it to several hundred licensees, including leading wireless device and infrastructure manufacturers. cellular wireless technologies. relevant cellular wireless technologies can be grouped into the following categories. tdma-based. tdma (time division multiple access)-based technologies are characterized by their access method allowing several users to share the same frequency channel by dividing the signal into different time slots. most of these systems are classified as 2g (second generation) technology. the main examples of tdma-based technologies are gsm (deployed worldwide), is-136 (deployed in the americas) and personal digital cellular (pdc) (deployed in japan). the transition of wireless devices from 2g to 3g/4g and the emergence of 5g technologies continued around the world with estimated 3g/4g/5g connections up 11% year-over-year (gsma intelligence, november 2019). as of september 30, 2019, there were approximately 1.9 billion gsm connections worldwide, representing approximately 24% of total cellular connections, down from 30% as of september 30, 2018 (gsma intelligence, november 2019). 6 cdma-based. cdma-based technologies are characterized by their access method allowing several users to share the same frequency and time by allocating different orthogonal codes to individual users. most of the cdma-based technologies are classified as 3g technology. there are a number of variants of cdma-based technologies deployed around the world, in particular cdma2000, ev-do (evolution data optimized), wcdma (wideband cdma) and td-scdma (time division-synchronous cdma) (deployed exclusively in china). cdma-based technologies provide vastly improved capacity for voice and low-rate data services as compared to analog technologies and significant improvements over tdma-based technologies such as gsm. to date, these technologies have seen many revisions. new specifications continue to be defined by 3gpp. cdma technologies ushered in a significant increase in mobile broadband data services. as of september 30, 2019, there were approximately 2.1 billion cdma-based connections worldwide, representing approximately 27% of total cellular connections, down from 28% as of september 29, 2018 as consumers migrate to ofdma-based technologies (gsma intelligence, november 2019). ofdma-based. ofdma-based technologies are characterized by their access method allowing several users to share the same frequency band and time by allocating different subcarriers to individual users. most of the ofdma-based technologies to be deployed or expected to be deployed through the end of 2019 are classified as 4g technology. 5g heavily leverages ofdma-based technologies. 3gpp developed 4g specifications through the standardization of the radio component (lte) and the core network component (enhanced packet core or epc). similarly, 3gpp has developed 5g specifications through the specification of the radio component (new radio or nr) and the core network component (5g core or 5gc). unlike 4g that has fixed orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (ofdm) parameterization, 5g has multiple ofdm parameterizations to address a wide range of spectrum and use cases. we continue to play a significant role in the development of lte, lte advanced and lte advanced pro, which are the predominant 4g technologies currently in use. lte is incorporated in 3gpp specifications starting from release 8 and uses ofdma in the downlink and single carrier fdma (frequency division multiple access) in the uplink. lte has two modes, fdd (frequency division duplex) and tdd (time division duplex), to support paired and unpaired spectrum, respectively, and continues to evolve as 3gpp defines new specifications. the principal benefit of lte is its ability to leverage a wide range of spectrum (bandwidths of up to 20 mhz or more through aggregation). lte is designed to seamlessly interwork with 3g technologies through multimode devices. lte advanced brings many more enhancements, including carrier aggregation, advanced antenna techniques and optimization for small cells. apart from improving the performance of existing networks, there are also new enhancements under the umbrella of lte advanced pro, including lte direct for proximity-based device-to-device discovery, improved lte broadcast, optimizations of narrowband communications designed for iot (known as emtc and nb-iot) and the ability to use lte advanced in unlicensed spectrum (lte unlicensed) as well as in emerging shared spectrum bands in various regions (such as the citizens broadband radio service, or cbrs, in the united states). there are multiple options for deploying lte unlicensed for different deployment scenarios. laa (licensed assisted access), introduced as part of 3gpp release 13, aggregates unlicensed and licensed spectrum in the downlink and is being deployed globally by mobile operators. laa is a key technology for many operators with limited licensed spectrum to deliver gigabit lte speeds. elaa (enhanced laa) introduced as part of 3gpp release 14, is an evolution of laa, enables aggregation of unlicensed and licensed spectrum in the uplink. beginning with release 14, 3gpp specifications provide enhancements specifically for vehicular communications known as cellular vehicle-to-everything (c-v2x), which includes both direct communication (vehicle-to-vehicle, vehicle-to-infrastructure and vehicle-to-pedestrian) in dedicated spectrum that is independent of a cellular network and cellular communications with networks in traditional mobile broadband licensed spectrum. c-v2x is designed to serve as the foundation for intelligent transportation systems (its), enabling vehicles to communicate with each other and everything around them providing non-line-of-sight awareness for enhanced road safety and traffic efficiency. in future 3gpp releases (starting in release 16, which is expected to be completed in june 2020), c-v2x is expected to benefit from the incorporation of 5g features, such as high throughput, lower latency and ultra-reliable communication capabilities to enable a higher level of performance and predictability as needed for automated driving and other advanced use cases. as of september 30, 2019, there were approximately 3.8 billion global lte connections worldwide, representing approximately 49% of total cellular connections, up from 41% as of september 30, 2018 (gsma intelligence, november 2019). as of october 2019, approximately 900 wireless operators have commercially deployed or started testing lte networks and 777 operators have commercially launched lte in 228 countries, including 308 operators in 135 countries having commercially launched lte advanced networks (gsa, november 2019). 7 the wireless industry is actively developing and commercializing 5g technologies. initial commercial 5g network deployments and device launches began in calendar 2019, and we expect that 5g network deployments and device launches will increase over the next several years. some of our inventions that serve as foundational technologies for 3g and 4g now also serve as foundational technologies for 5g. 5g is designed to transform the role of wireless technologies and already incorporates or soon will incorporate advancements on 3g/4g features available today, including device-to-device capabilities and the use of all different types of spectrum (including licensed, unlicensed and shared spectrum). we continue to play a significant role in driving advancements in 5g, including contributing to 3gpp standardization activities that are defining the continued evolution of 5g nr and 5gc standards. the first global set of 5g standards is incorporated in 3gpp specifications starting from release 15, which was initially completed in march 2018 and subsequently updated in september 2018 and june 2019. release 15 enables different architecture deployment choices of 5g networks while sharing the same radio access technology. the main advantages of 5g are its ability to target diverse services with very different technical requirements (from enhanced mobile broadband to massive iot to mission critical services), its utilization of diverse types of spectrum (from the low bands to millimeter bands) and its ability to support diverse types of deployment scenarios. predominant technological components of 5g include the ability to address ultra-reliable, low-latency communication, new channel coding schemes to efficiently support large data blocks, multiple-input multiple-output (mimo) to increase coverage and network capacity and mobile millimeter wave to increase the data rate offered to users. 5g uses ofdma in the downlink and either ofdma or single carrier fdma in the uplink depending on the use case. like 3g and 4g, 5g supports carrier aggregation across spectrum bands, across fdd and tdd and across licensed and unlicensed spectrum (starting with release 16), and 5g also supports dual connectivity across 4g and 5g. a key benefit of 5g is its ability to take advantage of very wide channel bandwidth such as 800/400/100 mhz (compared to lte's 20 mhz maximum bandwidth, which requires carrier aggregation to combine spectrum beyond 20 mhz). as with previous cellular generations, 5g is designed to support seamless compatibility with 2g/3g/4g technologies through multimode devices. as of october 2019, 258 wireless operators in 94 countries have demonstrated, are testing, trialing or have been licensed to begin field trials of 5g-enabling and candidate technologies, and an additional 69 wireless operators in 50 countries have announced their intentions to make 5g available to their customers by 2022 (gsa, november 2019). other (non-cellular) wireless technologies. there are other, non-cellular wireless technologies that have also been broadly adopted. wireless local area networks. wireless local area networks (wlan), such as wi-fi, link two or more nearby devices wirelessly and usually provide connectivity through an access point. wi-fi systems are based on standards developed by the institute of electrical and electronics engineers (ieee) in the 802.11 family of standards. 802.11ax, the latest standard, adds advanced features such as downlink and uplink ofdma and uplink multiple-user mimo to the 802.11 baseline standard. this technology primarily targets connectivity for mobile devices, tablets, laptops and other consumer electronic devices using 2.4 ghz and 5 ghz spectrum. for 60ghz mmwave technology, 802.11ay adds wider channel bandwidth and the use of mimo to the existing 802.11ad (also known as gigabit wi-fi or wigig) standard. 802.11ah was finalized in early 2017 and targets sub-1 ghz spectrum and is expected to be a solution for connected home applications that require long battery life. we played a leading role in the development of 802.11ac, 802.11ax, 802.11ay, 802.11ah, 802.11ad and 802.11p, and continue to play a lead role in the evolution of 802.11 family of standards. we are actively involved in innovative programs developed in the context of the wi-fi alliance, a non-profit organization that drives global wi-fi adoption and evolution. bluetooth. bluetooth is a wireless personal area network that provides wireless connectivity between devices over short distances ranging from a few centimeters to approximately one hundred meters. bluetooth technology provides wireless connectivity to a wide range of fixed or mobile consumer electronic devices. bluetooth functionalities are standardized by the bluetooth special interest group in various versions of the specification (from 1.0 to 5.1), which include different functionalities, such as enhanced data rate, low energy and mesh technologies. we are a leading contributor to bluetooth technologies in the areas of mobile devices, hid (human interface device), a/v (audio/video) and mesh technologies. location positioning technologies. location positioning technologies continue to evolve in order to deliver an enhanced commercial location experience and comply with the new mandates on location for e911 calls from the united states federal communications commission. we are a key developer of the assisted-gps (a-gps), assisted global navigation satellite system (a-gnss) and wlan positioning technologies used in most cellular handsets today. for uses requiring the best reliability and accuracy for e911 services and navigational based services, a-gps, a-gnss and wlan provide leading-edge solutions. the industry continues to evolve to support additional inputs for improving the location experience. our products and intellectual property now support multiple constellations for a-gnss, including: gps, glonass, galileo and beidou; wi-fi-based and bluetooth-based positioning for wlan, including, wi-fi rssi (received signal strength indication) and wi-fi rtt (round-trip time) signals for indoor location; observed time difference of arrival positioning for lte access (e.g., in rural 8 and indoor areas); and third-party inertial sensors. the combination of these different location solutions is used to ensure accurate location availability in all areas. other significant technologies used in cellular and certain consumer electronic devices and networks . we have played and continue to play a leading role in developing and/or have acquired many of the other technologies used across the wireless system, such as cellular handsets and certain other consumer electronic devices and networks, including: rffe chips and modules (including power amplifier modules, envelope tracker, antenna tuners, diversity modules, rf switches and micro-acoustic rf filters) designed for improved signal performance and reduced power consumption, while simplifying the design for manufacturers to develop lte/5g multimode, multiband devices, including sub-6 ghz and mmwave devices; graphics and display processing functionality; video coding based on the hevc (high efficiency video codec) standard, which is being deployed to support 4k video and immersive media content; audio coding, including evs (enhanced voice services) and mpeg-h 3d audio; the latest version of 3gpp's codec for multimedia use and for voice/speech use; multimedia transport, including mpeg-dash (dynamic adaptive streaming over http) enabling advanced multimedia experiences; camera and camcorder functions; operating system and user interface features; on-device artificial intelligence (ai) features, including machine learning platforms; augmented reality (ar) and virtual reality (vr) features enabling new types of user experiences; security and content protection systems for enhanced device security without compromising the user experience and ultrasonic fingerprint readers for single touch authentication; volatile (lp-ddr2, 3, 4) and non-volatile (emmc) memory and related controllers; and power management systems for improved battery life and device charging. operating segments we have three reportable segments. we conduct business primarily through qct (qualcomm cdma technologies) and qtl (qualcomm technology licensing), while qsi (qualcomm strategic initiatives) makes strategic investments. revenues in fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 for our reportable segments were as follows (in millions, except percentage data): 2019 2018 2017 qct $ 14,639 $ 17,282 $ 16,479 as a percent of total 60 % 76 % 74 % qtl $ 4,591 $ 5,042 $ 6,412 as a percent of total 19 % 22 % 29 % qsi $ 152 $ 100 $ 113 as a percent of total 1 % % 1 % qct segment. qct is a leading developer and supplier of integrated circuits and system software based on cdma, ofdma and other technologies for use in wireless voice and data communications, networking, application processing, multimedia and global positioning system products. qct's integrated circuit products are sold and its system software is licensed to manufacturers that use our products in a broad range of devices in support of cdma- and ofdma-based technologies, from low-tier, entry-level devices primarily for emerging regions to premium-tier devices, including mobile devices (primarily smartphones), tablets, laptops, data modules, handheld wireless computers and gaming devices, access points and routers, broadband gateway equipment, data cards and infrastructure equipment, iot devices and applications, other consumer electronics and automotive telematics and infotainment systems. our 3g/4g/5g modem roadmap delivers the latest network technologies across multiple product tiers and devices. this roadmap is the result of extensive collaboration with manufacturers, operators, developers, governments and industry standards organizations, as well as our years of research into emerging network standards and the development of integrated circuits that take advantage of these new standards, while maintaining backward compatibility with existing standards. the qualcomm snapdragon family of integrated circuit products include the snapdragon mobile, compute and automotive platforms. each platform consists of application processors and wireless connectivity capabilities, including our cellular modem that provides core baseband modem functionality for voice and data communications, non-cellular wireless connectivity (such as wi-fi and bluetooth) and global positioning functions. our snapdragon application processor functions include security, graphics, display, audio, video, camera and ai. our central processing units are designed based on arm 9 architecture and are designed to deliver high levels of compute performance at low power. our qualcomm hexagon processors are designed to support a variety of signal processing applications, including ai, audio and sensor processing. qualcomm adreno graphics processing units are designed to deliver high quality graphics performance for visually rich 3d gaming and user interfaces. in addition to the highly integrated core system on a chip (soc), we also design and supply supporting components, including the rf, pm (power management), audio, codecs, speaker amps and additional wireless connectivity integrated circuits. these supporting components, in addition to our cellular modems and application processors comprising our core soc, are also sold as individual components. the combination of the snapdragon soc, system software and supporting components provide an overall platform with optimized performance and efficiency, enabling manufacturers to design and deliver powerful, slim and power-efficient devices ready for integration with the complex cellular networks worldwide. our portfolio of rf products includes qualcomm rffe components that are designed to simplify the rf design for 5g front-end, lte multimode and multiband mobile devices, to reduce power consumption and to improve radio performance. qct offers an advanced portfolio of rffe products for mobile devices, infrastructure, automotive, industrial iot and other iot applications. our technologies provide comprehensive rffe product offerings with system level performance from the modem and transceiver to the antenna that include power tracking, tuning systems, switching, multimode-multiband power amplification, low noise amplifiers, complex transmit and receive modules, in addition to discrete filtering applications across cellular, automotive, infrastructure, industrial iot and other iot industries. our wireless connectivity products also consist of integrated circuits and system software for wi-fi, bluetooth, frequency modulation (fm) and near field communications (nfc), as well as technologies that support location data and services, including gps, glonass, beidou and galileo. our wireless connectivity products provide additional connectivity for mobile devices, tablets, laptops, iot applications and automotive telematics and infotainment systems. qct also offers standalone wi-fi, bluetooth, fingerprint sensor, applications processor and ethernet products for mobile devices, consumer electronics, computers, iot applications, other connected devices and automotive telematics and infotainment systems. our networking products include wi-fi, ethernet and powerline chips, network processors and software. these products help enable home and business networks to support the growing number of connected devices, digital media and data services. other than for our rffe modules and rf filter acoustic products, qct utilizes a fabless production model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. therefore, we primarily rely on independent third-party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits based primarily on our proprietary designs and test programs. our suppliers also are responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. integrated circuits are die cut from silicon wafers that have completed the package assembly and test manufacturing processes. the semiconductor package supports the electrical contacts that connect the integrated circuit to a circuit board. die cut from silicon wafers are the essential components of all of our integrated circuits and a significant portion of the total integrated circuit cost. we employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing models to purchase our integrated circuits. under the turnkey model, our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. under the two-stage manufacturing model, we purchase die in singular or wafer form from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-party suppliers for manufacturing services such as wafer bump, probe, assembly and the majority of our final test requirements. the primary foundry suppliers for our various digital, analog/mixed-signal, rf and pm integrated circuits are global foundries, samsung electronics, semiconductor manufacturing international, taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company (tsmc) and united microelectronics. the primary semiconductor assembly and test suppliers are advanced semiconductor engineering, amkor technology, siliconware precision industries and statschippac. the majority of our foundry and semiconductor assembly and test suppliers are located in the asia-pacific region. qct uses internal fabrication facilities to manufacture rffe modules and rf filter acoustic products, and its manufacturing operations consist of front-end and back-end processes. the front-end processes primarily take place at manufacturing facilities located in germany and singapore and involve the imprinting of substrate silicon wafers with the circuitry required for semiconductors to function (also known as wafer fabrication). the back-end processes involve the assembly, packaging and test of semiconductors to prepare rffe modules and rf filter acoustic products for distribution. the back-end manufacturing facilities are located in china, germany and singapore. qct's sales are primarily made through standard purchase orders for delivery of products. qct generally allows customers to reschedule delivery dates within a defined time frame and to cancel orders prior to shipment with or without payment of a penalty, depending on when the order is canceled. the industry in which qct operates is intensely competitive. qct competes worldwide with a number of u.s. and international designers and manufacturers of semiconductors. as a 10 result of global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological changes, lengthening replacement cycles for mobile devices, device manufacturer concentrations and the potential for further industry consolidation, we anticipate the industry to remain very competitive. we believe that the principal competitive factors for our products include performance, level of integration, quality, compliance with industry standards, price, time-to-market, system cost, design and engineering capabilities, new product innovation, growth and scaling of distribution channels, desire by certain customers to use multiple suppliers and customer support. qct also competes in both single-mode and multimode environments against alternative communications technologies. additional competitive factors exist for qct product offerings that have expanded into adjacent industry segments outside traditional cellular industries, including automotive, computing, iot and networking. the automotive industry is subject to long design-in time frames, long product life cycles and a high degree of regulatory and safety requirements, necessitating suppliers to the industry to comply with stringent qualification processes, very low defect rates and high reliability standards, all of which results in a significant barrier to entry and may result in increased costs. qct's current competitors include, but are not limited to, companies such as broadcom, cirrus logic, cypress semiconductor, hisilicon, intel, marvell, maxim, mediatek, microchip technology, murata, nordic semiconductor, nvidia, nxp semiconductors, qorvo, realtek semiconductor, renesas, samsung, sequans communications, skyworks and spreadtrum communications (which is controlled by tsinghua unigroup). qct also faces competition from products internally developed by our customers, including some of our largest customers, and from some early-stage companies. our competitors devote significant amounts of their financial, technical and other resources to develop and market competitive products and, in some cases, to develop and adopt competitive digital communication or signal processing technologies, and those efforts may materially and adversely affect us. although we have attained a significant position in the wireless industry, many of our current and potential competitors may have advantages over us that include, among others: motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to use our competitors' integrated circuit products, to utilize their own internally-developed integrated circuit products or sell such products to others, including by selling them together with certain of their other products, or to choose alternative technologies; lower cost structures or a willingness and ability to accept lower prices and lower or negative margins for their products, particularly in china; foreign government support of other technologies or competitors or original equipment manufacturers (oems) that sell devices that do not contain our chipsets; better known brand names; ownership and control of manufacturing facilities and greater expertise in manufacturing processes; more extensive relationships with local distribution companies and oems in certain geographic regions (such as china); more experience in adjacent industry segments outside traditional cellular industries (such as automotive, computing, iot and networking); and a more established presence in certain regions. these relationships may affect customers' decisions to purchase products or license technology from us. accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market positions to our detriment. qtl segment . qtl grants licenses or otherwise provides rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which, among other rights, includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture, sale and/or use of certain wireless products , including, without limitation, products implementing cdma2000, wcdma, cdma tdd, lte and/or ofdma-based 5g standards and their derivatives. we have historically licensed our cellular standard-essential patents together with other qualcomm patents that may be useful to such licensed products because in the past, licensees typically have desired to obtain the commercial benefits of receiving such broad patent rights from us. however, since 2015, our standard practice in china is to offer licenses to our 3g and 4g (and now 5g) cellular standard-essential chinese patents for devices sold for use in china separately from our other patents. in addition, we also offer licenses to only our cellular standard-essential patents (including 3g, 4g and 5g) for both single-mode and multimode devices on a worldwide basis, and since 2018, an increasing number of new and existing licensees have elected to enter into worldwide license agreements covering only our cellular standard essential patents. going forward, we continue to anticipate that a significant portion of qtl's licensing revenues will be derived from licensees that have entered into license agreements covering only qualcomm's cellular standard essential patents. our licensees manufacture wireless products including mobile devices (including handsets), other consumer devices (e.g., tablets and laptops), plug-in end user data modem cards and embedded modules for incorporation into machine-to-machine devices and certain end user products (excluding handsets and tablets), as well as infrastructure equipment required to establish and operate a network and equipment to test networks and cellular devices. since our founding in 1985, we have focused heavily on technology development and innovation. these efforts have resulted in a leading intellectual property portfolio related to foundational, system level technologies for the wireless industry. we have an extensive portfolio of united states and foreign patents, and we continue to pursue patent applications around the world. our patents have broad coverage in many countries, including brazil, china, india, japan, south korea, taiwan, the united states and countries in europe and elsewhere. a substantial portion of our patents and patent applications relate to digital wireless communications technologies, including patents that are essential or may be important to the commercial implementation of cdma2000, wcdma (umts), td-scdma, td-cdma (time division cdma), ofdma-based lte and ofdma-based 5g products. our patent portfolio is the most widely and extensively licensed in the industry, with more 11 than 300 licensees. additionally, we have a substantial patent portfolio related to key technologies used in communications and other devices and/or related services, some of which were developed in industry standards development bodies. these include certain video codecs, audio codecs, wi-fi, memory interfaces, wireless power, gps and positioning, broadcast and streaming protocols, and short-range communication functionalities, including nfc and bluetooth. our patents cover a wide range of technologies across the entire wireless system, including the device (handsets and other wireless devices), not just the portion of such patented technologies incorporated into chipsets, and the network. over the years, a number of companies have challenged our patent position, but companies in the mobile communications industry generally recognize that any company seeking to develop, manufacture and/or sell certain wireless products that use cdma-based and/or ofdma-based technologies will require a license or other rights to use our patents. we have licensed or otherwise provided rights to use our patents to hundreds of companies on industry-accepted terms. unlike some other companies in our industry that hold back certain key technologies, we offer companies substantially our entire patent portfolio for use in cellular devices and cell site infrastructure equipment. our strategy to make our patented technologies broadly available has been a catalyst for industry growth, helping to enable a wide range of companies offering a broad array of wireless products and features while increasing the capabilities of and/or driving down average and low-end selling prices for 3g handsets and other wireless devices. by licensing or otherwise providing rights to use our patents to a wide range of equipment manufacturers, encouraging innovative applications, supporting equipment manufacturers with integrated chipset and software products and focusing on improving the efficiency of the airlink for wireless operators, we have helped 3g and 3g/4g multimode evolve and grow and reduce device pricing, all at a faster pace than the 2g (second generation) technologies such as gsm that preceded it. 5g network deployments and commercial 3g/4g/5g multimode device sales began in 2019 and will continue into 2020 and beyond. by licensing or otherwise providing rights to use our patents to a wide range of equipment manufacturers, 5g will continue to encourage innovative applications through enhanced mobile broadband services with lower latency and multi-gigabit user data speeds and bring more capacity and efficiency to wireless networks. upon the initial deployment of ofdma-based networks, the products implementing such technologies generally have been multimode and implement ofdma-based and cdma-based technologies. the licenses granted under our existing license agreements generally cover multimode cdma/ofdma (3g/4g/5g) devices, and our licensees are obligated to pay royalties under their license agreements for such devices. standards bodies have been informed that we hold patents that might be essential for all 3g standards that are based on cdma. we have committed to such standards bodies that we will offer to license our essential patents for these cdma standards consistent with our commitments to those bodies. we have also informed standards bodies that we hold patents and pending patent applications that are potentially essential for lte standards, including fdd and tdd versions and have committed to offer to license our essential patents for these lte standards consistent with our commitments to those bodies. we have informed standards bodies that we hold patents and pending patent applications that are essential for 5g technologies and have committed to offer to license our essential patents for these 5g standards consistent with our commitments to those bodies. we have made similar commitments with respect to certain other technologies implemented in industry standards. qtl licensing revenues include license fees and royalties. licensees pay royalties based on their sales of products incorporating or using our licensed intellectual property and may also pay a fixed license fee in one or more installments. sales-based royalties are generally based upon a percentage of the wholesale (i.e., licensee's) selling price of complete licensed products, net of certain permissible deductions (including transportation, insurance, packing costs and other items). we broadly provide per unit royalty caps that apply to certain categories of complete wireless devices, namely smartphones, tablets, laptops and smartwatches, and provide for a maximum royalty amount payable per device. revenues generated from royalties are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations. the vast majority of qtl revenues have been generated through our licensees' sales of cdma2000-based, wcdma-based and lte-based products (including 3g and 3g/4g multimode devices), such as smartphones and feature phones. we have invested and continue to invest in both the acquisition and development of ofdma technology and intellectual property and have generated the industry leading patent portfolio applicable to lte, lte advanced and lte advanced pro. some of our inventions that serve as foundational technologies for 3g and 4g now also serve as foundational technologies for 5g. we have invested and continue to invest in the development of 5g and continue to play a significant role in driving advancements of 5g. nevertheless, we face competition in the development of intellectual property for future generations of digital wireless communications technologies and services. separate and apart from licensing manufacturers of wireless devices and network equipment, we have entered into certain arrangements with competitors of our qct segment, such as broadcom. a principal purpose of these arrangements is to provide our qct segment and the counterparties certain freedom of operation with respect to each party's integrated 12 circuits business. in every case, these agreements expressly reserve the right for qtl to seek royalties from the customers of such integrated circuit suppliers with respect to such suppliers' customers' sales of cdma-, wcdma- and ofdma-based wireless devices into which such suppliers' integrated circuits are incorporated. our license agreements also may provide us with rights to use certain of our licensees' technology and intellectual property to manufacture, sell and/or use certain components (e.g., application-specific integrated circuits) and related software, cellular devices and/or infrastructure equipment. we are currently subject to various governmental investigations and private legal proceedings challenging our patent licensing practices, which may require us to change our patent licensing practices as described more fully in this annual report in part i, item 1a. risk factors under the heading changes in our patent licensing practices, whether due to governmental investigations or private legal proceedings challenging those practices, or otherwise, could adversely impact our business and results of operations and in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. qsi segment. qsi makes strategic investments primarily through our qualcomm ventures arm that are focused on expanding or opening new opportunities for our technologies as well as supporting the design and introduction of new products and services (or enhancing existing products or services). many of these strategic investments are in early-stage companies in a variety of industries and applications, including, but not limited to, artificial intelligence, automotive, digital healthcare, enterprise software and solutions, iot, mobile and networking. investments primarily include non-marketable equity securities and to a lesser extent, non-marketable convertible debt instruments. in addition, qsi segment results include revenues and related costs associated with development contracts with one of our equity method investees. as part of our strategic investment activities, we intend to pursue various exit strategies for each of our qsi investments in the foreseeable future. other businesses. nonreportable segments include our qualcomm government technologies or qgov (formerly qualcomm cyber security solutions) business and other wireless technology and service initiatives. during fiscal 2019, we completed the sale of our mobile health nonreportable segment, and we combined our small cells nonreportable segment into our qct segment. prior period segment information has not been adjusted to conform to the new segment presentation as such adjustments are insignificant. qgov provides development and other services and sells related products to u.s. government agencies and their contractors. additional information regarding our operating segments is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 8. segment information. information regarding seasonality is provided in this annual report in part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the our business and operating segments section under the heading seasonality. cost plan in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we announced a cost plan designed to align our cost structure to our long-term margin targets. as part of this plan, we initiated a series of targeted actions across our businesses with the objective to reduce annual costs by $1 billion, excluding incremental costs resulting from any future acquisition of a business. actions taken under this plan have been completed and resulted in us achieving substantially all of this target in fiscal 2019 based on our run rate exiting the second quarter of fiscal 2019, excluding litigation costs that were in excess of the baseline spend. additional information regarding our cost plan is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 10. cost plan. corporate structure we operate our businesses through our parent company, qualcomm incorporated, and multiple direct and indirect subsidiaries. we have developed our corporate structure in order to address various legal, regulatory, tax, contractual compliance, operational and other matters. substantially all of our products and services businesses, including qct, and substantially all of our engineering, research and development functions, are operated by qualcomm technologies, inc. (qti), a wholly-owned subsidiary of qualcomm incorporated, and qti's subsidiaries. qtl is operated by qualcomm incorporated, which owns the vast majority of our patent portfolio. neither qti nor any of its subsidiaries has any right, power or authority to grant any licenses or other rights under or to any patents owned by qualcomm incorporated. revenue concentrations and significant customers a small number of customers/licensees historically have accounted for a significant portion of our consolidated revenues. in fiscal 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , revenues from apple inc. and its contract manufacturers (hon hai precision industry co., ltd./foxconn, its affiliates and other suppliers to apple), samsung electronics and combined revenues from guangdong 13 oppo mobile telecommunications and vivo communication technology, and their respective affiliates (including bbk), each comprised 10% or more of consolidated revenues. revenues from xiaomi also comprised 10% or more of consolidated revenues in fiscal 2019 and 2018 . revenues in fiscal 2018 and 2017 were negatively impacted by our prior dispute with apple inc. and its contract manufacturers. revenues in fiscal 2019 were positively impacted by our settlement of such dispute in the third quarter of fiscal 2019. we expect to begin recording revenues for new chipset models under our recently announced multi-year chipset agreement with apple in the second half of fiscal 2020. research and development the wireless communications industry is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions, requiring a continuous effort to enhance existing products and technologies and to develop new products and technologies. we have significant engineering resources, including engineers with substantial expertise in cdma, ofdma and a broad range of other technologies. using these engineering resources, we expect to continue to invest in research and development in a variety of ways in an effort to extend the demand for our products, and to utilize that research and development in adjacent industry segments outside of traditional cellular industries (such as automotive, computing, iot and networking), including continuing the development of cdma, ofdma and other technologies (such as rf), developing alternative technologies for certain specialized applications, participating in the formulation of new voice and data communication standards and technologies, and assisting in deploying digital voice and data communications networks around the world. our research and development team has a demonstrated track record of innovation in voice and data communication technologies and application processor technology, among others. we continue to invest significant resources towards advancements in ofdma-based 4g technologies (including lte) and 5g technologies. we also engage in acquisitions and other transactions, such as joint ventures, to meet certain technology needs, to obtain development resources or open or expand opportunities for our technologies and to support the design and introduction of new products and services (or enhancing existing products and services) for voice and data communications and new industry segments outside of the traditional cellular industry. our most recent significant transaction was the formation of, and subsequent acquisition of the remaining minority ownership interest in, rf360 holdings to enable delivery of rffe modules and rf filters into fully integrated products for mobile devices and iot applications, among others. see notes to consolidated financial statements, note 9. acquisitions in this annual report for additional information. we make investments to provide our integrated circuit customers with chipsets designed on leading-edge technology nodes that combine multiple technologies for use in consumer devices (e.g., smartphones, tablets and laptops), consumer electronics and other products (e.g., access points and routers, data cards and infrastructure equipment). in addition to 3g, 4g and 5g technologies, our chipsets support other wireless and wired connectivity technologies, including wi-fi, bluetooth, ethernet, location positioning and powerline communication. our integrated chipsets often include multiple technologies, including advanced multimode modems, application processors and graphics engines, as well as the tools to connect these diverse technologies. we continue to support android, windows and other mobile client software environments in our chipsets. we develop on our own, and with our partners, innovations that are integrated into our product portfolio to further expand the opportunity for wireless communications and enhance the value of our products and services. these innovations are expected to enable our customers to improve the performance or value of their existing services, offer these services more affordably and introduce revenue-generating broadband data services ahead of their competition. we have research and development centers in various locations throughout the world that support our global development activities and ongoing efforts to develop and/or advance 4g, 5g and a broad range of other technologies. we continue to use our substantial engineering resources and expertise to develop new technologies, applications and services and make them available to licensees to help grow the communications industry and generate new or expanded licensing opportunities. we also make investments in opportunities that leverage our existing technical and business expertise to deploy new and expanded product areas, such as rffe, and enter into adjacent industry segments, such as products for automotive, computing, iot (including the connected home, smart cities, wearables, voice and music and robotics) and networking, among others. sales and marketing sales and marketing activities of our operating segments are discussed under operating segments. other marketing activities include public relations, advertising, digital marketing and social media, participation in technical conferences and trade shows, development of business cases and white papers, competitive analyses, industry intelligence and other marketing programs, such as marketing and/or market development funds with our customers. our corporate marketing department 14 provides company information on our internet site and through other channels regarding our products, strategies and technology to industry analysts and media. competition competition faced by our operating segments is discussed under operating segments. competition in the wireless communications industry throughout the world continues to increase at a rapid pace as consumers, businesses and governments realize the potential of wireless communications products and services. we have facilitated competition in the wireless communications industry by licensing our technologies to a large number of manufacturers. although we have attained a significant position in the traditional cellular industry, many of our current and potential competitors may have advantages over us that include, among others: motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to use our competitors' integrated circuit products, to utilize their own internally-developed integrated circuit products or sell such products to others, including by selling them together with certain of their other products, or to choose alternative technologies; lower cost structures or a willingness and ability to accept lower prices and lower or negative margins for their products, particularly in china; foreign government support of other technologies or competitors or original equipment manufacturers (oems) that sell devices that do not contain our chipsets; better known brand names; ownership and control of manufacturing facilities and greater expertise in manufacturing processes; more extensive relationships with local distribution companies and oems in certain geographic regions (such as china); more experience in adjacent industry segments outside traditional cellular industries (such as automotive, computing, iot and networking); and a more established presence in certain regions. these relationships may affect customers' decisions to purchase products or license technology from us. accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market positions to our detriment. we expect competition to increase as our current competitors expand their product offerings and introduce new technologies and services in the future and as additional companies compete with our products or services based on 3g, 4g, 5g or other technologies. although we intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing new products and technologies and improving existing products and technologies to strengthen and/or maintain our competitive position, our competitors may introduce alternative products, services or technologies that threaten our business. it is also possible that the prices we charge for our products and services may continue to decline as competition continues to intensify. see also the risk factor entitled our industry is subject to competition in an environment of rapid technological changes. our success depends in part on our ability to adapt to such changes and compete effectively; and such changes and competition could result in decreased demand for our products or declining average selling prices for our products or those of our customers or licensees. corporate responsibility and sustainability we strive to better our local and global communities through ethical business practices, socially empowering technology applications, educational and environmental programs and employee diversity and volunteerism. our governance. we aim to demonstrate accountability, transparency, integrity and ethical business practices throughout our operations and interactions with our stakeholders. our products. we strive to meet or exceed industry standards for product responsibility and supplier management. our workplace. we endeavor to provide a safe and healthy work environment where diversity is embraced, innovation is encouraged, and opportunities for training, growth and advancement are available for all employees. our community. we have strategic relationships with a wide range of local organizations and programs that develop and strengthen communities worldwide. our commitment to stem education. we aim to promote and improve science, technology, engineering and math (stem) education at all levels and expand opportunities for underrepresented students in stem careers. our environment. we aim to expand our operations while minimizing our carbon footprint, conserving water and reducing waste. qualcomm wireless reach initiative. we invest in strategic programs that foster entrepreneurship, aid in public safety, enhance delivery of health care, enrich teaching and learning and improve environmental sustainability through the use of advanced wireless technologies. employees at september 29, 2019 , we employed approximately 37,000 full-time, part-time and temporary employees. during fiscal 2019 , the number of employees increased by approximately 1,600, primarily due to increases in engineering resources, partially offset by actions taken under our cost plan. 15 available information our internet address is www.qualcomm.com. there we make available, free of charge, our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). we also make available on our internet site public financial information for which a report is not required to be filed with or furnished to the sec. our sec reports and other financial information can be accessed through the investor relations section of our internet site. the information found on our internet site is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the sec. information about our executive officers our executive officers (and their ages at september 29, 2019 ) are as follows: steve mollenkopf, age 50, has served as chief executive officer since march 2014 and as a director since december 2013. he served as chief executive officer-elect and president from december 2013 to march 2014 and as president and chief operating officer from november 2011 to december 2013. in addition, he served as executive vice president and group president from september 2010 to november 2011 and as executive vice president and president, qualcomm cdma technologies (qct) from august 2008 to september 2010. mr. mollenkopf joined qualcomm in 1994 as an engineer and throughout his tenure at qualcomm has held several other technical and leadership positions. mr. mollenkopf served as a member of the board of directors of general electric company from november 2016 to april 2018. mr. mollenkopf holds a b.s. degree in electrical engineering from virginia tech and an m.s. degree in electrical engineering from the university of michigan. cristiano r. amon, age 49, has served as president, qualcomm incorporated since january 2018. he served as executive vice president, qualcomm technologies, inc., a subsidiary of qualcomm incorporated (qti) and president, qct from november 2015 to january 2018. he served as executive vice president, qti and co-president, qct from october 2012 to november 2015, senior vice president, qualcomm incorporated and co-president, qct from june 2012 to october 2012 and as senior vice president, qct product management from october 2007 to june 2012. mr. amon joined qualcomm in 1995 as an engineer and throughout his tenure at qualcomm has held several other technical and leadership positions. mr. amon holds a b.s. degree in electrical engineering from unicamp, the state university of campinas, brazil. brian t. modoff, age 60, has served as executive vice president, strategy and mergers &amp; acquisitions since october 2015. prior to joining qualcomm, mr. modoff was a managing director in equity research at deutsche bank securities inc., a provider of financial services, from march 1999 to october 2015. prior to joining deutsche bank, mr. modoff was a research analyst at several financial institutions from november 1993 to march 1999. mr. modoff previously worked in defense electronics, including at rockwell international in manufacturing management, and for the u.s. navy as a communications technician. mr. modoff holds a b.a. degree in economics from california state university, fullerton and a master of international management from the thunderbird school of global management. akash palkhiwala, age 44, has served as executive vice president and chief financial officer since november 2019. he served as senior vice president and interim chief financial officer from august 2019 to november 2019. he served as senior vice president, (qct) finance, qti from december 2015 to august 2019, and senior vice president and treasurer, qualcomm incorporated from october 2014 to december 2015. mr. palkhiwala served as vice president, (qct) finance, qti from october 2012 to october 2014 and vice president, (qct) finance from october 2009 to october 2012. he served in various other finance roles since joining the company in march 2001. prior to joining qualcomm, mr. palkhiwala was an analyst at keybank. mr. palkhiwala has an undergraduate degree in mechanical engineering from l.d. college of engineering in india and an m.b.a from the university of maryland. alexander h. rogers, age 62, has served as executive vice president and president, qualcomm technology licensing (qtl) since october 2016. he served as senior vice president and president, qtl from september 2016 to october 2016, senior vice president, deputy general counsel and general manager, qtl from march 2016 to september 2016, senior vice president and deputy general counsel from october 2015 to march 2016 and senior vice president and legal counsel from april 2007 to october 2015. prior to transitioning to qtl, mr. rogers led qualcomm's litigation group. mr. rogers joined qualcomm in january 2001 as an attorney. prior to joining qualcomm, mr. rogers was a partner at the law firm of gray, cary, ware &amp; friedenrich (now dla piper), specializing in intellectual property and commercial litigation. mr. rogers holds b.a. and m.a. degrees in english literature from georgetown university and a j.d. degree from georgetown university law center. donald j. rosenberg, age 68, has served as executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since october 2007. he served as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary of apple inc. from november 16 2006 to october 2007. from may 1975 to november 2006, mr. rosenberg held numerous positions at ibm corporation, including senior vice president and general counsel. mr. rosenberg has served as a member of the board of directors of nuvasive, inc. since february 2016 and is presently nuvasive's lead independent director. mr. rosenberg holds a b.s. degree in mathematics from the state university of new york at stony brook and a j.d. degree from st. john's university school of law. michelle sterling, age 52, has served as executive vice president, human resources since may 2015. she served as senior vice president, human resources from october 2007 to may 2015. ms. sterling joined qualcomm in 1994 and throughout her tenure at qualcomm has held several other human resources and leadership positions. ms. sterling has served as a member of the board of directors of digital turbine, inc. since june 2019. ms. sterling holds a b.s. degree in business management from the university of redlands. james h. thompson, age 55, has served as executive vice president, engineering, qti and chief technology officer since march 2017. he served as executive vice president, engineering, qti from october 2012 to march 2017 and as senior vice president, engineering, qualcomm incorporated from july 1998 to october 2012. dr. thompson joined qualcomm in 1992 as a senior engineer and throughout his tenure at qualcomm held several other technical and leadership positions. dr. thompson holds b.s., m.s. and ph.d. degrees in electrical engineering from the university of wisconsin. item 1a. risk factors you should consider each of the following factors in evaluating our business and our prospects. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also negatively impact our business and results of operations and require significant management time and attention. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. you should also consider the other information set forth in this annual report in evaluating our business and our prospects, including but not limited to our financial statements and the related notes, and part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. references to and and or should be read to include the other as well as and/or, as appropriate. risks related to our businesses our revenues depend on commercial network deployments, expansions and upgrades of cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies, including 5g; our customers' and licensees' sales of products and services based on these technologies; and customers' demand for our products and services. we develop, patent and commercialize technology and products based on cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies, which are primarily wireless. we depend on operators of wireless networks and our customers and licensees to adopt and implement the latest generation of these technologies for use in their networks, devices and services. we also depend on our customers and licensees to develop devices and services based on these technologies with value-added features to drive consumer demand for new 3g/4g and 3g/4g/5g multimode devices, as well as 3g, 4g and 5g single-mode devices, and to establish the selling prices for such devices. further, we depend on the timing of our customers' and licensees' deployments of new devices and services based on these technologies. increasingly, we also depend on operators of wireless networks, our customers and licensees and other third parties to incorporate these technologies into new device types and into industries and applications beyond traditional cellular communications, such as automotive, computing, iot (including the connected home, smart cities, wearables, voice and music and robotics) and networking, among others. we have historically been successful during wireless technology transitions, including 3g and 4g. the next generation of wireless technologies is 5g, which we expect will empower a new era of connected devices and will be utilized not only in handsets but in new device types, industries and applications beyond traditional cellular communications, as described above (see also part i, item 1, business for further description of 5g). initial commercial deployments of 5g networks and devices have begun and will continue into fiscal 2020 and beyond. we believe it is important that we remain a leader in 5g technology development, standardization, intellectual property creation and licensing, and that we develop, commercialize and be a leading supplier of 5g integrated circuit products and services, in order to sustain and grow our business long-term. 17 our revenues and growth in revenues could be negatively impacted, our business may be harmed and our substantial investments in these technologies may not provide us an adequate return, if: wireless operators and industries beyond traditional cellular communications deploy alternative technologies; wireless operators delay next-generation network deployments, expansions or upgrades or delay moving customers to 3g/4g and 3g/4g/5g multimode devices, as well as 4g and 5g single-mode devices; lte, an ofdma-based wireless technology, is not more widely deployed or further commercial deployment is delayed; government regulators delay making sufficient spectrum available for 4g and 5g wireless technologies, including unlicensed spectrum and shared spectrum technologies, thereby delaying or precluding the initial deployment or expanded deployment of these technologies; wireless operators delay or do not drive improvements in 4g or 5g, or 3g/4g or 3g/4g/5g multimode network performance and capacity; our customers' and licensees' revenues and sales of products, particularly premium-tier products, and services using these technologies, and average selling prices (asps) of such products, decline, do not grow or do not grow meaningfully due to, for example, the maturity of smartphone penetration in developed regions; our intellectual property and technical leadership included in the continued 5g standardization effort is different than in 3g and 4g standards; the continued standardization or commercial deployment of 5g technologies is delayed; we are unable to drive the adoption of our products and services into networks and devices, including devices beyond traditional cellular applications, based on cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies; or consumers' rates of replacement of smartphones and other computing devices decline, do not grow or do not grow meaningfully. our industry is subject to competition in an environment of rapid technological changes. our success depends in part on our ability to adapt to such changes and compete effectively; and such changes and competition could result in decreased demand for our products or declining average selling prices for our products or those of our customers or licensees. our products, services and technologies face significant competition. we expect competition to increase as our current competitors expand their product offerings or reduce the prices of their products as part of a strategy to maintain existing business and customers or attract new business and customers, as new opportunities develop and as new competitors enter the industry. competition in wireless communications is affected by various factors that include, among others: device manufacturer concentrations; vertical integration; growth in demand, consumption and competition in certain geographic regions; government intervention or support of national industries or competitors; evolving industry standards and business models; evolving methods of transmission of voice and data communications; increasing data traffic and densification of wireless networks; convergence and aggregation of connectivity technologies (including wi-fi and lte) in both devices and access points; consolidation of wireless technologies and infrastructure at the network edge; networking and connectivity trends (including cloud services); use of licensed, shared and unlicensed spectrum; the evolving nature of computing (including demand for always on, always connected capabilities); the speed of technological change (including the transition to smaller geometry process technologies); value-added features that drive selling prices and consumer demand for new 3g/4g and 3g/4g/5g multimode devices, as well as 3g, 4g and 5g single-mode devices; turnkey, integrated products that incorporate hardware, software, user interface, applications and reference designs; scalability; and the ability of the system technology to meet customers' immediate and future network requirements. we anticipate that additional competitors will introduce products as a result of growth opportunities in wireless communications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in certain segments of the industry. additionally, the semiconductor industry has experienced and may continue to experience consolidation, which could result in significant changes to the competitive landscape. we expect that our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to: differentiate our integrated circuit products with innovative technologies across multiple products and features (e.g., modem, rffe, graphics and other processors, camera and connectivity) and with smaller geometry process technologies that drive both performance and lower power consumption; develop and offer integrated circuit products at competitive cost and price points to effectively cover both emerging and developed geographic regions and all device tiers; drive the adoption of our integrated circuit products into the most popular device models and across a broad spectrum of devices, such as smartphones, tablets, laptops and other computing devices, automobiles, wearables, voice and music and other connected devices and infrastructure products; 18 maintain or accelerate demand for our integrated circuit products at the premium device tier, while also driving the adoption of our 5g products into high, mid- and low-tier devices across all regions; continue to be a leader in 4g and 5g technology evolution and continue to innovate and introduce 4g and 5g turnkey, integrated products and services that differentiate us from our competition; remain a leader in 5g technology development, standardization, intellectual property creation and licensing, and develop, commercialize and be a leading supplier of 5g integrated circuit products and services; increase or accelerate demand for our semiconductor component products, including rffe, and our wireless connectivity products, including networking products for consumers, carriers and enterprise equipment and connected devices; become a leading supplier of rffe products, which are designed to address cellular radio frequency band fragmentation while improving radio frequency performance and assist original equipment manufacturers in developing multiband, multimode mobile devices; create standalone value and contribute to the success of our existing businesses through acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions, and by developing customer, licensee, vendor, distributor and other channel relationships in new industry segments and with disruptive technologies, products and services, such as products for automotive, computing, iot (including the connected home, smart cities, wearables, voice and music and robotics) and networking, among others; identify potential acquisition targets that will grow or sustain our business or address strategic needs, reach agreement on terms acceptable to us, close the transactions and effectively integrate these new businesses, products and technologies; be a leader serving original equipment manufacturers (oems), high level operating systems (hlos) providers, operators, cloud providers and other industry participants as competitors, new industry entrants and other factors continue to affect the industry landscape; be a preferred partner and sustain preferred relationships providing integrated circuit products that support multiple operating system and infrastructure platforms to industry participants that effectively commercialize new devices using these platforms; and continue to develop brand recognition to effectively compete against better known companies in computing and other consumer driven segments and to deepen our presence in significant emerging regions and china. we compete with many different semiconductor companies, ranging from multinational companies with integrated research and development, manufacturing, sales and marketing organizations across a broad spectrum of product lines, to companies that are focused on a single application market segment or standard product, including those that produce products for automotive, computing, iot and networking applications. most of these competitors compete with us with respect to some, but not all, of our businesses. companies that design integrated circuits based on cdma, ofdma, wi-fi or their derivatives are generally competitors or potential competitors. examples (some of which are strategic partners of ours in other areas) include broadcom, cirrus logic, cypress semiconductor, hisilicon, intel, marvell, maxim, mediatek, microchip technology, murata, nordic semiconductor, nvidia, nxp semiconductors, qorvo, realtek semiconductor, renesas, samsung, sequans communications, skyworks and spreadtrum communications (which is controlled by tsinghua unigroup). some of these current and potential competitors may have advantages over us that include, among others: motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to use our competitors' integrated circuit products, to utilize their own internally-developed integrated circuit products or sell such products to others, or to choose alternative technologies; lower cost structures or a willingness and ability to accept lower prices or lower or negative margins for their products, particularly in china; foreign government support of other technologies, competitors or oems that sell devices that do not contain our chipsets; better known brand names; ownership and control of manufacturing facilities and greater expertise in manufacturing processes; more extensive relationships with local distribution companies and oems in certain geographic regions (such as china); more experience in adjacent industry segments outside traditional cellular industries (such as automotive, computing, iot and networking); and a more established presence in certain regions. in particular, certain of our largest integrated circuit customers develop their own integrated circuit products, which they have in the past utilized, and currently utilize, in certain of their devices and may in the future choose to utilize in certain (or all) of their devices, rather than our products (and they may sell their integrated circuit products to third parties, discretely or together with certain of their other products, in competition with us). also, apple, which has historically been one of our largest customers, now utilizes products of one of our competitors in many of their devices rather than our products and is solely utilizing one of our competitor's products in its most recent smartphone launch. apple may continue to use our competitors' products in one or more of its future devices and may develop and utilize its own modem products, rather than our products, in one or more of its future devices. 19 further, certain of our competitors develop and sell multiple components (including integrated circuit products) for use in devices and sell those components together to device manufacturers. our competitors' sales of multiple components put us (and our discrete integrated circuit products) at a competitive disadvantage. certain of our competitors also develop and sell infrastructure equipment for wireless networks and can optimize their integrated circuit products to perform on such networks to a degree that we are not able to, which again puts us at a competitive disadvantage. competition in any or all product tiers may result in the loss of business or customers, which would negatively impact our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. such competition may also reduce average selling prices for our chipset products or the products of our customers and licensees. certain of these dynamics are particularly pronounced in emerging regions and china where competitors may have lower cost structures or may have a willingness and ability to accept lower prices or lower or negative margins on their products (particularly in china). reductions in the average selling prices of our chipset products, without a corresponding increase in volumes, would negatively impact our revenues, and without corresponding decreases in average unit costs, would negatively impact our margins. in addition, reductions in the average selling prices of our licensees' products, unless offset by an increase in volumes, would generally decrease total royalties payable to us, negatively impacting our licensing revenues. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of customers and licensees, which increasingly includes a small number of chinese oems. if revenues derived from these customers or licensees decrease or the timing of such revenues fluctuates, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. our qct segment derives a significant portion of its revenues from a small number of customers, and we expect this trend to continue in the foreseeable future. our industry is experiencing and may continue to experience concentration of device share among a few companies, particularly at the premium tier, contributing to this trend. chinese oems continue to grow their device share in china and are increasing their device share in regions outside of china, and we derive a significant and increasing portion of our revenues from a small number of these oems. in addition, certain of our largest integrated circuit customers develop their own integrated circuit products, which they have in the past utilized, and currently utilize, in certain of their devices and may in the future choose to utilize in certain (or all) of their devices, rather than our products (and they may sell their integrated circuit products to third parties, discretely or together with certain of their other products, in competition with us). also, apple, which has historically been one of our largest customers, utilizes products of one of our competitors in many of their devices rather than our products and is solely utilizing one of our competitor's products in its most recent smartphone launch. in april 2019, we entered into a new multi-year chipset supply agreement with apple. we do not expect to begin recording revenues under this agreement until the second half of fiscal 2020. however, apple may continue to use our competitors' products in one or more of its future devices and may develop and utilize its own modem products, rather than our products, in one or more of its future devices. similarly, certain of our chinese oem customers have developed and others may in the future develop their own integrated circuit products and use such integrated circuit products, or other integrated circuit products, in their devices rather than our integrated circuit products, whether due to pressure from the chinese government as part of its broader economic policies, the oems' concerns over losing access to our integrated circuit products as a result of u.s./chinese trade tensions, or otherwise. further, political actions, including trade and/or national security protection policies, or other actions by governments, have in the past, currently are and could in the future limit or prevent us from transacting business with certain of our customers, or limit or prevent certain of our customers from transacting business with us. finally, we spend a significant amount of engineering and development time, funds and resources in understanding our key customers' feedback and/or specifications and attempt to incorporate such input into our product launches and technologies. these efforts may not require or result in purchase commitments from such customers or we may have lower purchases from such customers than expected, and consequently, we may not achieve the anticipated revenues from these efforts, or these efforts may result in non-recoverable costs. the loss of any one of our significant customers, a reduction in the purchases of our products by such customers or the cancelation of significant purchases by any of these customers, whether due to the use of their own integrated circuit products or our competitors' integrated circuit products, government restrictions or otherwise, would reduce our revenues and could harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected results of operations, and a delay of significant purchases, even if only temporary, would reduce our revenues in the period of the delay. any such reduction in revenues would also impact our cash resources available for other purposes, such as research and development. further, the concentration of device share among a few companies, and the corresponding purchasing power of these companies, may result in lower prices for our products which, if not accompanied by a sufficient increase in the volume of purchases of our products, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and margins. in addition, the timing and size of purchases by our significant customers may be impacted by 20 the timing of such customers' new or next generation product introductions, over which we have no control, and the timing and success of such introductions may cause our revenues and results of operations to fluctuate. accordingly, if current industry dynamics continue, our qct segment's revenues will continue to depend largely upon, and be impacted by, future purchases, and the timing and size of any such future purchases, by these significant customers. further, to the extent apple purchases our modem products, it purchases our mobile data modem (mdm) products, which do not include our integrated application processor technology, and which have lower revenue and margin contributions than our combined modem and application processor products. to the extent apple takes device share from our customers who purchase our integrated modem and application processor products, our revenues and margins may be negatively impacted. further, companies that develop hlos for devices, including leading technology companies, sell their own devices. if we fail to effectively partner or continue partnering with these companies, or with their partners or customers, they may decide not to purchase (either directly or through their contract manufacturers), or to reduce or discontinue their purchases of, our integrated circuit products. in addition, there has been and continues to be litigation among certain of our customers and other industry participants, and the potential outcomes of such litigation, including but not limited to injunctions against devices that incorporate our products or intellectual property, and rulings on certain patent law or patent licensing issues that create new legal precedent, could impact our business, particularly if such action impacts one of our larger customers. although we have more than 300 licensees, our qtl segment derives a significant portion of its revenues from a limited number of licensees, which increasingly includes a small number of chinese oems. in the event that one or more of our significant licensees fail to meet their reporting and payment obligations, or we are unable to renew or modify one or more of such license agreements under similar terms, our revenues, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely impacted. moreover, the future growth and success of our core licensing business will depend in part on the ability of our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver high-volume products that achieve and sustain customer acceptance. we have no control over the product development, sales efforts or pricing of products by our licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. reductions in sales of our licensees' products, or reductions in the average selling prices of wireless devices sold by our licensees without a sufficient increase in the volumes of such devices sold, would generally have an adverse effect on our licensing revenues. such adverse impact may be mitigated by the per unit royalty caps that apply to certain categories of complete wireless devices, namely smartphones, tablets, laptops and smartwatches. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from the premium-tier device segment. if sales of premium-tier devices decrease, or sales of our premium-tier integrated circuit products decrease, our results of operations could be negatively affected. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from the premium-tier device segment, and we expect this trend to continue in the foreseeable future. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, slowing growth in the premium-tier device segment due to, among other factors, lengthening replacement cycles in developed regions, where premium-tier smartphones are common; increasing consumer demand in emerging regions and china where premium-tier smartphones are less common and replacement cycles are on average longer than in developed regions and are continuing to lengthen; and a maturing premium-tier smartphone industry in which demand is increasingly driven by new product launches and innovation cycles. in addition, as discussed in the prior risk factor, our industry is experiencing concentration of device share at the premium tier among a few companies, which gives them significant leverage. further, certain of those companies have in the past utilized, currently utilize and may in the future utilize their own internally-developed integrated circuit products or our competitors' integrated circuit products rather than our products in all or a portion of their devices. these dynamics may result in reduced sales of or lower prices for our premium-tier integrated circuit products. a reduction in sales of premium-tier devices, a reduction in sales of our premium-tier integrated circuit products (which have a higher revenue and margin contribution than our lower-tier integrated circuit products) or a shift in share away from oems that utilize our products to oems that do not utilize our products, would reduce our revenues and margins and may harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected financial results. any such reduction in revenues would also impact our cash resources available for other purposes, such as research and development. efforts by some communications equipment manufacturers or their customers to avoid paying fair and reasonable royalties for the use of our intellectual property may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources and may result in legal decisions or actions by governments, courts, regulators or agencies, standards development organizations (sdos) or other industry organizations that harm our business . 21 from time to time, companies initiate various strategies to attempt to negotiate, renegotiate, reduce and/or eliminate their need to pay royalties to us for the use of our intellectual property. these strategies have included: (i) litigation, often alleging infringement of patents held by such companies, patent misuse, patent exhaustion, patent invalidity or unenforceability of our patents or licenses, that we do not license our patents on fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory (frand) terms, or some form of unfair competition or competition law violation; (ii) taking positions contrary to our understanding (and/or the plain language) of their contracts with us; (iii) appeals to governmental authorities; (iv) collective action, including working with wireless operators, standards bodies, other like-minded companies and organizations, on both formal and informal bases, to adopt intellectual property policies and practices that could have the effect of limiting returns on intellectual property innovations; (v) lobbying governmental regulators and elected officials for the purpose of seeking the reduction of royalty rates or the base on which royalties are calculated, seeking to impose some form of compulsory licensing or weakening a patent holder's ability to enforce its rights or obtain a fair return for such rights; and (vi) various attempts by licensees to shift their royalty obligation to their suppliers that results in lowering the wholesale (i.e., licensee's) selling price on which the royalty is calculated. in addition, certain licensees have disputed, underreported, underpaid, not reported or not paid royalties owed to us under their license agreements or reported to us in a manner that is not in compliance with their contractual obligations, and certain companies have yet to enter into or have delayed entering into or renewing license agreements with us for their use of our intellectual property. further, certain licensees and companies are currently engaged in such behavior and they or others may engage in such behavior in the future. the fact that one or more licensees dispute, underreport, underpay, do not report or do not pay royalties owed to us may encourage other licensees to take similar actions and may encourage other licensees or unlicensed companies to delay entering into, or not enter into, new license agreements. further, to the extent such licensees and companies increase their device share, the negative impact of their underreporting, underpayment, non-payment or non-reporting on our business, revenues, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be exacerbated. we have been in the past and are currently subject to various litigation and governmental investigations and proceedings, including the lawsuit filed against us by the united states federal trade commission (ftc). certain of these matters are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. we may become subject to other litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings in the future. additionally, certain of our direct and indirect customers and licensees have pursued, and others may in the future pursue, litigation or arbitration against us related to our business. unfavorable resolutions of one or more of these matters have had and could in the future have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. see the risk factors below entitled our business, particularly our licensing business, may suffer as a result of adverse rulings in government investigations or proceedings and changes in our patent licensing practices, whether due to governmental investigations or private legal proceedings challenging those practices, or otherwise, could adversely impact our business and results of operations . in addition, in connection with our participation in sdos, we, like other patent owners, generally have made contractual commitments to such organizations to license those of our patents that would necessarily be infringed by standard-compliant products as set forth in those commitments. some manufacturers and users of standard-compliant products advance interpretations of these commitments that are adverse to our licensing business, including interpretations that would limit the amount of royalties that we could collect on the licensing of our standard-essential patent portfolio. further, some companies or entities have proposed significant changes to existing intellectual property policies for implementation by sdos and other industry organizations with the goal of significantly devaluing standard-essential patents. for example, some have put forth proposals which would require a maximum aggregate intellectual property royalty rate for the use of all standard-essential patents owned by all of the member companies to be applied to the selling price of any product implementing the relevant standard. they have further proposed that such maximum aggregate royalty rate be apportioned to each member company with standard-essential patents based upon the number of standard-essential patents held by such company. others have proposed that injunctions should not be an available remedy for infringement of standard-essential patents and have made proposals that could severely limit damage awards and other remedies by courts for patent infringement (e.g., by severely limiting the base upon which the royalty rate may be applied). a number of these strategies are purportedly based on interpretations of the policies of certain sdos concerning the licensing of patents that are or may be essential to industry standards and on our (or other companies') alleged failure to abide by these policies. some sdos, courts and governmental agencies have adopted and may in the future adopt some or all of these interpretations or proposals in a manner adverse to our interests, including in litigation to which we may not be a party. we expect that such proposals, interpretations and strategies will continue in the future, and if successful, our business model would be harmed, either by limiting or eliminating our ability to collect royalties (or by reducing the royalties we can collect) on all or a portion of our standard-essential patent portfolio, limiting our return on investment with respect to new 22 technologies, limiting our ability to seek injunctions against infringers of our standard-essential patents, constraining our ability to make licensing commitments when submitting our technology for inclusion in future standards (which could make our technology less likely to be included in such standards) or forcing us to work outside of sdos or other industry groups to promote our new technologies, and our revenues, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted. in addition, the legal and other costs associated with asserting or defending our positions have been and continue to be significant. we assume that such challenges, regardless of their merits, will continue into the foreseeable future and will require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources. our business, particularly our licensing business, may suffer as a result of adverse rulings in government investigations or proceedings . we have been in the past and are currently subject to various governmental investigations and proceedings, particularly with respect to our licensing business, including the lawsuit filed against us by the ftc. certain of these matters are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. key allegations or findings in those matters include, among others, that we violate frand licensing commitments by refusing to grant licenses to chipset makers, that our royalty rates are too high, that the base on which our royalties are calculated should be something less than the wholesale (i.e., licensee's) selling price of the applicable device (minus certain permitted deductions), that we unlawfully require customers to execute a patent license before we sell them cellular modem chipsets, that we have entered into exclusive agreements with chipset customers that foreclose competition, and that we violate antitrust laws, engage in anticompetitive conduct and unfair methods of competition. we may become subject to other litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings in the future. unfavorable resolutions of one or more of these matters have had and could in the future have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. depending on the matter, various remedies that could result from an unfavorable resolution include, among others, the loss of our ability to enforce one or more of our patents; injunctions; monetary damages or fines or other orders to pay money; the issuance of orders to cease certain conduct or modify our business practices, such as requiring us to reduce our royalty rates, reduce the base on which our royalties are calculated, grant patent licenses to chipset manufacturers, sell chipsets to unlicensed oems or modify or renegotiate some or all of our existing license agreements; and determinations that some or all of our license agreements are invalid or unenforceable. if some or all of our license agreements are declared invalid or unenforceable and/or we are required to renegotiate these license agreements, we may not receive, or may not be able to recognize, some or any licensing or royalty revenues under the impacted license agreements unless and until we enter into new license agreements; and even licensees whose license agreements are not impacted may demand to renegotiate their agreements or invoke the dispute resolution provision in their agreements, and we may not be able to recognize some or any licensing or royalty revenues under such agreements. the renegotiation of license agreements could lead to arbitration or litigation to resolve the licensing terms (which could be less favorable to us than existing terms), each of which could take months or possibly years. licensees may underreport, underpay, not report or not pay royalties owed to us pending the conclusion of such negotiations, arbitration or litigation. in addition, we may be sued for alleged overpayments of past royalties paid to us, including private antitrust actions seeking treble damages under u.s. antitrust laws. further, if our appeal in the ftc lawsuit is unsuccessful, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. any such event could result in a materially negative impact on our financial condition, in which case we would have to significantly cut costs and other uses of cash, including in research and development, significantly impairing our ability to maintain product and technology leadership and invest in next generation technologies such as 5g. further, depending on the breadth and severity of the circumstances above, we may have to reduce or eliminate our capital return programs, and our ability to timely pay our indebtedness may be impacted. if these events occur, our financial outlook and stock price could decline, possibly significantly. further, a governmental body in a particular country or region may successfully assert and impose remedies with effects that extend beyond the borders of that country or region. these challenges have required, and we expect that they will continue to require, the investment of significant management time and attention and have resulted, and we expect that they will continue to result, in increased legal costs until the respective matters are resolved. changes in our patent licensing practices, whether due to governmental investigations or private legal proceedings challenging those practices, or otherwise, could adversely impact our business and results of operations . as described in the risk factor above entitled our business, particularly our licensing business, may suffer as a result of adverse rulings in government investigations or proceedings , we have been in the past and are currently subject to various governmental investigations and proceedings and private legal proceedings challenging our patent licensing and chipset sales practices, including the lawsuit filed against us by the ftc. certain of these matters are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. we believe that one intent 23 of these investigations and legal proceedings is to reduce the amount of royalties that licensees are required to pay to us for their use of our intellectual property. we may become subject to other litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings in the future. we historically licensed our cellular standard-essential patents together with our other patents that may be useful to licensed products because licensees desired to obtain the commercial benefits of receiving such broad patent rights from us. however, we also licensed only our cellular standard-essential patents to certain licensees who requested such licenses. since 2015, our standard practice in china is to offer licenses to our 3g and 4g (and now 5g) cellular standard-essential chinese patents for devices sold for use in china separately from our other patents. in addition, we also offer licenses to only our cellular standard-essential patents (including 3g, 4g and 5g) for both single-mode and multimode devices on a worldwide basis, and since 2018, an increasing number of new and existing licensees have elected to enter into worldwide license agreements covering only our cellular standard-essential patents. going forward, we continue to anticipate that a significant portion of our licensing revenues will be derived from licensees that have entered into license agreements covering only our cellular standard-essential patents. our royalty rates for licenses to only our cellular standard-essential patents are lower than our royalty rates for licenses to substantially all of our patent portfolio. if more licensees choose a license to only our cellular standard-essential patents instead of a portfolio license than has historically been the case, our licensing revenues and earnings would be negatively impacted unless we were able to license our other patents at rates that offset all or a portion of any difference between the royalties previously received for licenses of substantially all of our patent portfolio as compared to licenses of only our cellular standard-essential patents or there was a sufficient increase in the overall volume of sales of devices upon which royalties are paid. if we were required to grant patent licenses to chipset manufacturers (which could lead to implementing a more complex, multi-level licensing structure in which we license certain portions of our patent portfolio to chipset manufacturers and other portions to device manufacturers), we would incur additional transaction costs, which may be significant, and we could incur delays in recognizing revenues until license negotiations were completed. in addition, our licensing revenues and earnings would be negatively impacted if we were not able to obtain, in the aggregate, equivalent revenues under such a multi-level licensing structure. if we were required to reduce the royalty rates, we charge under our patent license agreements, our revenues, earnings and cash flows would be negatively impacted absent a sufficient increase in the volume of sales of devices upon which royalties are paid. similarly, if we were required to reduce the base on which our royalties are calculated, our revenues, results of operations and cash flows would be negatively impacted unless there was a sufficient increase in the volume of sales of devices upon which royalties are paid or we were able to increase our royalty rates to offset the decrease in revenues resulting from such lower royalty base (assuming the absolute royalty dollars were below any relevant royalty caps). if we were required to sell chipsets to oems that do not have a license to our patents, our licensing program could be negatively impacted by patent exhaustion claims raised by such unlicensed oems (i.e., claims that our sale of chipsets to such oems forecloses us from asserting any patents substantially embodied by the chipsets against such oems). such sales would provide oems with a defense in the event we asserted our patents against them to obtain licensing revenue for those patents. this would have a material adverse effect on our licensing program and our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. to the extent that we were required to implement any of these new licensing and/or business practices, including by modifying or renegotiating our existing license agreements or pursuing other commercial arrangements, we would incur additional transaction costs, which may be significant, and we could incur delays in recognizing revenues until license negotiations were completed. the impact of any such changes to our licensing practices could vary widely and by jurisdiction, depending on the specific outcomes and the geographic scope of such outcomes. in addition, if we were required to make modifications to our licensing practices in one jurisdiction, licensees or governmental agencies in other jurisdictions may attempt to obtain similar outcomes for themselves or for such other jurisdictions, as applicable. finally, if our appeal in the ftc lawsuit is unsuccessful, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. the enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights may be expensive, could fail to prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights, could result in the loss of our ability to enforce one or more patents, and could be adversely affected by changes in patent laws, by laws in certain foreign jurisdictions that may not effectively protect our intellectual property rights and by ineffective enforcement of laws in such jurisdictions. we rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, international treaties and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes, including our patent portfolio. policing unauthorized use of our products, technologies and proprietary information is difficult 24 and time consuming. the steps we have taken have not always prevented, and we cannot be certain the steps we will take in the future will prevent, the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary intellectual property rights as fully or as readily as u.s. laws or where the enforcement of such laws may be lacking or ineffective. some industry participants who have a vested interest in devaluing patents in general, or standard-essential patents in particular, have mounted attacks on certain patent systems, increasing the likelihood of changes to established patent laws. in the united states, there is continued discussion regarding potential patent law changes and current and potential future litigation regarding patents, the outcomes of which could be detrimental to our licensing business. the laws in certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including certain countries in asia, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws in the united states. we expect that the european union (eu) will adopt a unitary patent system in the next few years that may broadly impact that region's patent regime. we cannot predict with certainty the long-term effects of any potential changes. in addition, we cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country or the practices of any standards bodies, foreign or domestic, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing or the adoption of standards, will not be changed in the future in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technologies. we have had, currently have, and may in the future have, difficulty in certain circumstances in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights and contracts, including collecting royalties for use of our patent portfolio due to, among others: refusal by certain licensees to report and pay all or a portion of the royalties they owe to us; policies of foreign governments; challenges to our licensing practices under competition laws; adoption of mandatory licensing provisions by foreign jurisdictions; failure of foreign courts to recognize and enforce judgments of contract breach and damages issued by courts in the united states; and challenges before competition agencies to our licensing business and the pricing and integration of additional features and functionality into our chipset products. certain licensees have disputed, underreported, underpaid, not reported or not paid royalties owed to us under their license agreements with us or reported to us in a manner that is not in compliance with their contractual obligations, and certain companies have yet to enter into or have delayed entering into or renewing license agreements for their use of our intellectual property. further, certain licensees and companies are currently engaged in such behavior and they or others may engage in such behavior in the future. the fact that one or more licensees dispute, underreport, underpay, do not report or do not pay royalties owed to us may encourage other licensees to take similar actions and may encourage other licensees or unlicensed companies to delay entering into, or not enter into, new license agreements. additionally, although our license agreements provide us with the right to audit the books and records of licensees, audits can be expensive, time consuming, incomplete and subject to dispute. further, certain licensees may not comply with the obligation to provide full access to their books and records. to the extent we do not aggressively enforce our rights under our license agreements, licensees may not comply with their existing license agreements, and to the extent we do not aggressively pursue unlicensed companies to enter into license agreements with us for their use of our intellectual property, other unlicensed companies may not enter into license agreements. similarly, we provide access to certain of our intellectual property and proprietary and confidential business information to our direct and indirect customers and licensees, who have in the past and may in the future wrongfully use such intellectual property and information or wrongfully disclose such intellectual property and information to third parties, including our competitors. we have engaged in litigation and arbitration in the past and may need to further litigate or arbitrate in the future to enforce our contract and intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. as a result of any such litigation or arbitration, we could lose our ability to enforce one or more patents, portions of our license agreements could be determined to be invalid or unenforceable (which may in turn result in other licensees either not complying with their existing license agreements or initiating litigation), license terms (including but not limited to royalty rates for the use of our intellectual property) could be imposed that are less favorable to us than existing terms, and we could incur substantial costs. any action we take to enforce our contract or intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. further, even a positive resolution to our enforcement efforts may take time to conclude, which may reduce our revenues and cash resources available for other purposes, such as research and development, in the periods prior to conclusion. our growth increasingly depends on our ability to extend our technologies, products and services into new and expanded product areas, such as rffe, and adjacent industry segments and applications outside of traditional cellular industries, such as automotive, computing, iot and networking, among others. our research, development and other investments in these new and expanded product areas, industry segments and applications, and related technologies, products and services, as well as in our existing technologies, products and services and new technologies, such as 5g, may not generate operating income or contribute to future results of operations that meet our expectations. 25 our industry is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions, and we must make substantial research, development and other investments, such as acquisitions, in new products, services and technologies to compete successfully. technological innovations generally require significant research and development efforts before they are commercially viable. while we continue to invest significant resources toward advancements primarily in support of 4g- and 5g-based technologies, we also invest in new and expanded product areas, and adjacent industry segments and applications, by leveraging our existing technical and business expertise and through acquisitions. in particular, our future growth significantly depends on new and expanded product areas, such as rffe, and adjacent industry segments and applications outside of traditional cellular industries, such as automotive, computing, iot (including the connected home, smart cities, wearables, voice and music and robotics) and networking, among others; our ability to develop leading and cost-effective technologies, products and services for new and expanded product areas, adjacent industry segments and applications; and third parties incorporating our technologies, products and services into devices used in these product areas, industry segments and applications. accordingly, we intend to continue to make substantial investments in these new and expanded product areas and adjacent industry segments and applications, and in developing new products, services and technologies for these product areas, industry segments and applications. our growth also depends significantly on our ability to develop and patent 5g technologies, and to develop and commercialize products using 5g technologies. however, our research, development and other investments in these new and expanded product areas and adjacent industry segments and applications, and corresponding technologies, products and services, as well as in our existing, technologies, products and services and new technologies, such as 5g, use of licensed, shared and unlicensed spectrum and convergence of cellular and wi-fi, may not succeed due to, among other reasons: we may not be issued patents on the technologies we develop; the technologies we develop may not be incorporated into relevant standards; new and expanded product areas and adjacent industry segments, applications and consumer demand may not develop or grow as anticipated; our strategies or the strategies of our customers, licensees or partners may not be successful; improvements in alternate technologies in ways that reduce the advantages we anticipate from our investments; competitors' technologies, products or services being more cost effective, having more capabilities or fewer limitations or being brought to market faster than our new technologies, products and services; we may not be able to develop, or our competitors may have more established and/or stronger, customer, vendor, distributor or other channel relationships; and competitors having longer operating histories in industry segments that are new to us. we may also underestimate the costs of or overestimate the future revenues or margins that could result from these investments, and these investments may not, or may take many years to, generate material returns. further, the automotive industry is subject to long design-in time frames, long product life cycles and a high degree of regulatory and safety requirements, necessitating suppliers to the industry to comply with stringent qualification processes, very low defect rates and high reliability standards, all of which results in a significant barrier to entry and increased costs. if our new technologies, products and services are not successful, or are not successful in the time frame we anticipate, we may incur significant costs and asset impairments, our business may not grow meaningfully, our revenues and margins may be negatively impacted, and our reputation may be harmed. there are numerous risks associated with the operation and control of our manufacturing facilities, including a higher portion of fixed costs relative to a fabless model, environmental compliance and liability, exposure to natural disasters, timely supply of equipment and materials, and various manufacturing issues. while our qct segment has historically utilized a fabless production model (which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made), we own and operate various facilities that manufacture our rffe modules and rf filter acoustic products. manufacturing facilities are characterized by a higher portion of fixed costs relative to a fabless model. we may be faced with a decline in the utilization rates of our manufacturing facilities due to decreases in demand for our products, including in less favorable industry environments. during such periods, our manufacturing facilities could operate at lower capacity levels, while the fixed costs associated with full capacity continue to be incurred, resulting in lower gross profit. we are subject to many environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate our manufacturing facilities, which govern, among other things, emissions of pollutants into the air, wastewater discharges, the use and handling of hazardous substances, waste disposal, the investigation and remediation of soil and ground water contamination and the health and safety of our employees. we are also required to obtain and maintain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. while we continue to take measures to comply, we cannot make assurances that we will be at all times in compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. certain environmental laws 26 impose strict, and in certain circumstances, joint and several, liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances. certain of these laws also assess liability on persons who arrange for hazardous substances to be sent to disposal or treatment facilities when such facilities are found to be contaminated. in addition, we could also be held liable for consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances or other environmental damage. we have manufacturing facilities in asia and europe. if tsunamis, flooding, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters, or geopolitical conflicts, were to damage, destroy or disrupt our manufacturing facilities, it could disrupt our operations, delay new production and shipments of inventory and result in costly repairs, replacements or other costs. in addition, natural disasters or geopolitical conflicts may result in disruptions in transportation, distribution channels and supply chains, and significant increases in the prices of raw materials. our manufacturing operations depend on securing raw materials and other supplies in adequate quality and quantity in a timely manner from multiple suppliers, and in some cases, we rely on a limited number of suppliers, particularly in asia. accordingly, there may be cases where supplies of raw materials and other products are interrupted by disaster, accident or some other event at a supplier, supply is suspended due to quality or other issues, or there is a shortage of supply due to a rapid increase in demand, which could impact production and prevent us from supplying products to our customers. if the supply-demand balance is disrupted, it may considerably increase costs of manufacturing due to increased prices we pay for raw materials. from time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit the amounts supplied to us or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. additionally, supply and costs of raw materials may be negatively impacted by trade and/or national security protection policies, such as tariffs, or actions by governments that limit or prevent us from transacting business with certain companies or that limit or prevent certain companies from transacting business with us, or escalating trade tensions, particularly with countries in asia. further, it may be difficult or impossible to substitute one piece of equipment for another or replace one type of material with another. a failure by our suppliers to deliver our requirements could result in disruptions to our manufacturing operations. our manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and must be continuously modified to improve yields and performance. difficulties in the production process can reduce yields or interrupt production, and as a result, we may not be able to deliver products or do so in a timely, cost-effective or competitive manner. further, to remain competitive and meet customer demand, we may be required to improve our facilities and process technologies and carry out extensive research and development, each of which may require investment of significant amounts of capital and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. finally, we typically begin manufacturing our products using our or our customers' forecasts of customer demand, which are based on a number of assumptions and estimates and are generally not covered by purchase commitments. as a result, we incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales, which sales ultimately may not materialize or may be lower than expected. if we or our customer overestimate customer demand that is not under a binding commitment from our customer, we may experience higher inventory carrying and operating costs and/or increased excess or obsolete inventory, which would negatively impact our results of operations. the continued and future success of our licensing programs requires us to continue to evolve our patent portfolio, and our licensing programs may be impacted by the proliferation of devices in new industry segments such as automotive, computing, iot and networking, as well as the need to renew or renegotiate license agreements that are expiring or to cover additional future patents. we own a very strong portfolio of issued and pending patents related to 3g, 4g, 5g and other technologies. it is critical that we continue to evolve our patent portfolio, particularly in 5g. if we do not maintain a strong portfolio that is applicable to current and future standards, products and services, particularly 5g, our future licensing revenues could be negatively impacted. in addition, new connectivity and other services are emerging that rely on devices that may or may not be used on traditional cellular networks, such as devices used in the automotive, computing, iot and networking industry segments. standards, even de facto standards, that develop as these technologies mature, in particular those that do not include a base level of interoperability, may impact our ability to obtain royalties at all or that are equivalent to those that we receive for products used in cellular communications. although we believe that our patented technologies are essential and useful to the commercialization of such services, any royalties we receive may be lower than those we receive from our current licensing program. further, the licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date. as a result, there are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us. additionally, all of our patent license agreements in china that were entered into in 2015 or thereafter, as 27 well as our recent worldwide cellular standard-essential patent only agreements, are effective for a specified term. in order to license or to obtain a license to such later patents or after the expiration of the specified term, and to receive royalties after the expiration date of the specified term, we will need to extend or modify such license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees more frequently than we have done historically. in particular, our license agreements with certain of our key chinese licensees expire at the end of calendar year 2019. we might not be able to extend or modify those license agreements, or enter into new license agreements, in the future without negatively affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees, and such modifications or new agreements may negatively impact our revenues. in some circumstances, we may extend, modify or enter into new license agreements as a result of arbitration or litigation, and terms imposed by arbitrators or courts may be less favorable to us than existing terms. if there is a delay in extending, modifying or entering into a new license agreement with a licensee, there would be a delay in our ability to recognize revenues related to that licensee's product sales. further, if we are unable to reach agreement on such modifications or new agreements, it could result in patent infringement litigation with such companies. we depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for the procurement, manufacture and testing of our products manufactured in a fabless production model. if we fail to execute supply strategies that provide technology leadership, supply assurance and low cost, our business and results of operations may be harmed. we are also subject to order and shipment uncertainties that could negatively impact our results of operations. our qct segment primarily utilizes a fabless production model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. other than the facilities we own that manufacture our rffe modules and rf filter acoustic products, we rely on independent third-party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits. our suppliers are also responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. we employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing models to purchase our integrated circuits. under the turnkey model, our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. under the two-stage manufacturing model, we purchase die in singular or wafer form from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-party suppliers for manufacturing services such as wafer bump, probe, assembly and the majority of our final test requirements. the semiconductor manufacturing foundries that supply products to our qct segment are primarily located in asia, as are our primary warehouses where we store finished goods for fulfillment of customer orders. the following could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand and negatively impact our revenues, business operations, profitability and cash flows: a reduction, interruption, delay or limitation in our product supply sources; a failure by our suppliers to procure raw materials or to provide or allocate adequate raw materials, manufacturing or test capacity for our products; our suppliers' inability to react to shifts in product demand or an increase in raw material or component prices; our suppliers' delay in developing leading process technologies, or inability to develop or maintain leading process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies; the loss of a supplier or the inability of a supplier to meet performance, quality or yield specifications or delivery schedules; additional expense or production delays as a result of qualifying a new supplier and commencing volume production or testing in the event of a loss of, or a decision to add or change, a supplier; and natural disasters or geopolitical conflicts impacting our suppliers. additionally, supply and costs of raw materials may be negatively impacted by trade or national security protection policies, such as tariffs, or actions by governments that limit or prevent us from transacting business with certain companies or that limit or prevent certain companies from transacting business with us, or escalating trade tensions, particularly with countries in asia. while we have established alternate suppliers for certain technologies, we rely on sole- or limited-source suppliers for certain products, subjecting us to significant risks, including: possible shortages of raw materials or manufacturing capacity; poor product performance; and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability and yields, quality assurance, quantity and costs. to the extent we have established alternate suppliers, these suppliers may require significant levels of support to bring complex technologies to production. as a result, we may invest a significant amount of effort and resources and incur higher costs to support and maintain such alternate suppliers. further, any future consolidation of foundry suppliers could increase our vulnerability to sole- or limited-source arrangements and reduce our suppliers' willingness to negotiate pricing, which could negatively impact our ability to achieve cost reductions and could increase our manufacturing costs. our arrangements with our suppliers may obligate us to incur costs to manufacture and test our products that do not decrease at the same rate as decreases in pricing to our customers. our ability, and that of our suppliers, to develop or 28 maintain leading process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies, and to effectively compete with the manufacturing processes and performance of our competitors, could impact our ability to introduce new products and meet customer demand, could increase our costs (possibly decreasing our margins) and could subject us to the risk of excess inventories. any of the above could negatively impact our business, results of operations and cash flows. although we have long-term contracts with our suppliers, many of these contracts do not provide for long-term capacity commitments. to the extent we do not have firm commitments from our suppliers over a specific time period or for any specific quantity, our suppliers may allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production and testing of products for their other customers while reducing or limiting capacity to manufacture or test our products. accordingly, capacity for our products may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. to the extent we do obtain long-term capacity commitments, we may incur additional costs related to those commitments or make non-refundable payments for capacity commitments that are not used. our suppliers or potential alternate suppliers may manufacture cdma- or ofdma-based integrated circuits, for themselves or for other companies, that compete with our products. such suppliers have in the past and could again elect to allocate raw materials and manufacturing capacity to their own products or products of our competitors and reduce or limit deliveries to us to our detriment. in addition, we may not receive reasonable pricing, manufacturing or delivery terms from our suppliers. we cannot guarantee that the actions of our suppliers will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost of sales. to the extent we are unable to obtain adequate supply, we may be obligated to make payment to our customers for such shortfalls. additionally, we place orders with our suppliers using our and our customers' forecasts of customer demand, which are based on a number of assumptions and estimates. as we move to smaller geometry process technologies, the manufacturing lead-time increases. as a result, the orders we place with our suppliers are generally only partially covered by commitments from our customers. if we, or our customers, overestimate customer demand that is not under a binding commitment from our customer, we may experience increased excess or obsolete inventory, which would negatively impact our results of operations. claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property could adversely affect our business. from time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights against our products or products using our technologies or other technologies used in our industry. these claims have resulted and may again result in our involvement in litigation. we may not prevail in such litigation given, among other factors, the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if any of our products or services were found to infringe another company's intellectual property rights, we could be subject to an injunction or be required to redesign our products or services, which could be costly, or to license such rights or pay damages or other compensation to such other company. if we are unable to redesign our products or services, license such intellectual property rights used in our products or services or otherwise distribute our products (e.g., through a licensed supplier), we could be prohibited from making and selling such products or providing such services. similarly, our suppliers could be found to infringe another company's intellectual property rights, and such suppliers could then be enjoined from providing products or services to us. in any potential dispute involving us and another company's patents or other intellectual property, our chipset foundries, semiconductor assembly and test providers and customers could also become the targets of litigation. we are contingently liable under certain product sales, services, license and other agreements to indemnify certain customers, chipset foundries and semiconductor assembly and test service providers against certain types of liability and damages arising from qualifying claims of patent infringement by products or services sold or provided by us, or by intellectual property provided by us to our chipset foundries and semiconductor assembly and test service providers. reimbursements under indemnification arrangements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. furthermore, any such litigation could severely disrupt the supply of our products and the businesses of our chipset customers and their customers, which in turn could harm our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our chipset sales or a reduction in our licensees' sales, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset or licensing revenues. any claims, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming to address, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. we may continue to be involved in litigation and may have to appear in front of administrative bodies (such as the united states international trade commission) to defend against patent assertions against our products by companies, some of whom are attempting to gain competitive advantage or leverage in licensing negotiations. we may not be successful in such proceedings, and if we are not, the range of possible outcomes is very broad and may include, for example, monetary 29 damages or fines or other orders to pay money, royalty payments, injunctions on the sale of certain of our integrated circuit products (or on the sale of our customers' devices using such products) or the issuance of orders to cease certain conduct or modify our business practices. further, a governmental body in a particular country or region may assert, and may be successful in imposing, remedies with effects that extend beyond the borders of that country or region. in addition, a negative outcome in any such proceeding could severely disrupt the business of our chipset customers and their wireless operator customers, which in turn could harm our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our worldwide chipset sales or a reduction in our licensees' sales to wireless operators, causing corresponding declines in our chipset or licensing revenues. certain legal matters, which may include certain claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property, are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. we may engage in strategic acquisitions, transactions or make investments, or be unable to consummate planned strategic acquisitions, which could adversely affect our results of operations or fail to enhance stockholder value. we engage in strategic acquisitions and other transactions, including joint ventures, and make investments, which we believe are important to the future of our business, with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. from time to time, we acquire businesses and other assets, including patents, technology, wireless spectrum and other intangible assets, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase minority equity interests in or make loans to companies, including those that may be private and early-stage. our strategic activities are generally focused on opening or expanding opportunities for our products and technologies and supporting the design and introduction of new products and services (or enhancing existing products or services) for voice and data communications and new industry segments. many of our strategic activities entail a high degree of risk and require the use of significant amounts of capital, and investments may not become liquid for several years after the date of the investment, if at all. our strategic activities may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies, products or services. we may underestimate the costs or overestimate the benefits, including product, revenue, cost and other synergies and growth opportunities that we expect to realize, and we may not achieve those benefits. in some cases, we may be required to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of companies in which we have acquired ownership interests. in addition, we may record impairment charges related to our strategic activities. any losses or impairment charges that we incur related to strategic activities will have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations, and we may continue to incur new or additional losses related to strategic assets or investments that we have not fully impaired or exited. achieving the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions, including joint ventures and other strategic investments in which we have management and operational control, depends in part upon our ability to integrate the businesses in an efficient and effective manner and achieve anticipated synergies, and we may not be successful in these efforts. such integration is complex and time consuming and involves significant challenges, including, among others: retaining key employees; successfully integrating new employees, technology, products, processes, operations (including manufacturing operations), sales and distribution channels, business models and business systems; retaining customers and suppliers of the businesses; consolidating research and development and supply operations; minimizing the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business matters; consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; and managing the increased scale, complexity and globalization of our business, operations and employee base. we may not derive any commercial value from associated technologies or products or from future technologies or products based on these technologies, and we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by indemnification protection that we may obtain, and we may become subject to litigation. additionally, we may not be successful in entering or expanding into new sales or distribution channels, business or operational models (including manufacturing), geographic regions, industry segments or categories of products served by or adjacent to the associated businesses or in addressing potential new opportunities that may arise out of the combination. if we do not achieve the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions or other strategic activities, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, and we may not enhance stockholder value by engaging in these transactions. many of our acquisitions and other strategic investments require approval by the united states and/or foreign government agencies. certain agencies in the past have, and may in the future, deny the transaction or fail to approve in a timely manner, resulting in us not realizing the anticipated benefits of the transaction. future acquisitions or other strategic investments may be more difficult, complex or expensive to the extent that our reputation for our ability to consummate acquisitions has been harmed. further, if u.s./china trade relations remain strained, our ability to consummate any transaction that would require approval from the state administration for market regulation (samr) in china may be severely impacted. 30 we are subject to various laws, regulations, policies and standards. our business may suffer as a result of existing, new or amended laws, regulations, policies or standards, or our failure or inability to comply with laws, regulations, policies or standards. our business, products and services, and those of our customers and licensees, are subject to various laws and regulations globally, as well as government policies and the specifications of international, national and regional communications standards bodies. compliance with existing laws, regulations, policies and standards, the adoption of new laws, regulations, policies or standards, changes in the interpretation of existing laws, regulations, policies or standards, changes in the regulation of our activities by a government or standards body or rulings in court, regulatory, administrative or other proceedings relating to such laws, regulations, policies or standards, including, among others, those affecting licensing practices, competitive business practices, the use of our technology or products, protection of intellectual property, trade and trade protection including tariffs, cybersecurity, foreign currency, investments or loans, spectrum availability and license issuance, adoption of standards, the provision of device subsidies by wireless operators to their customers, taxation, export control, privacy and data protection, environmental protection, health and safety, labor and employment, human rights, corporate governance, public disclosure or business conduct, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. government policies, particularly in china, that regulate the amount and timing of funds that may flow out of a country have impacted and may continue to impact the timing of our receipt of and/or ability to receive payments from our customers and licensees in such countries, which may negatively impact our cash flows. further, china has implemented, and other countries or regions may implement, cybersecurity laws that require that our overall information technology security environment meet certain standards and/or to be certified. such laws may be complex, ambiguous and subject to interpretation, which may create uncertainty regarding compliance. as a result, our efforts to comply with such laws may be expensive and may fail, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. delays in government approvals or other governmental activities that could result from, among others, a decrease in or a lack of funding for certain agencies or branches of the government, trade or national security protection policies, or political changes, could result in our incurring higher costs, could negatively impact our ability to timely consummate strategic transactions and could have other negative impacts on our business and the businesses of our customers and licensees. import/export regulations, such as the u.s. export administration regulations administered by the u.s. department of commerce, are complex, change frequently, have generally become more stringent over time and have intensified under the current u.s. administration. if our customers or suppliers fail to comply with these regulations, we may be required to suspend activities with these customers or suppliers, which could negatively impact our results of operations. additionally, we may be required to incur significant expense to comply with, or to remedy violations of, these regulations. national, state and local environmental laws and regulations affect our operations around the world. these laws may make it more expensive to manufacture, have manufactured and sell products, and our costs could increase if our vendors (e.g., suppliers, third-party manufacturers or utility companies) pass on their costs to us. the imposition of tariffs on raw materials or our products could also have a negative impact on our revenues and results of operations. we are also subject to laws and regulations impacting our manufacturing operations. see the risk factor entitled there are numerous risks associated with the operation and control of our manufacturing facilities, including a higher portion of fixed costs relative to a fabless model, environmental compliance and liability, exposure to natural disasters, timely supply of equipment and materials, and various manufacturing issues. regulations in the united states require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country (collectively, the covered countries), or were from recycled or scrap sources. other countries and regions are imposing similar regulations, which may require us to undertake additional verification and reporting, including regarding countries in addition to the covered countries and minerals in addition to conflict minerals. the verification and reporting requirements, in addition to customer demands for conflict free sourcing, impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products. further, if we are unable to determine that the conflict minerals used in our products do not directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the covered countries, we may face challenges with our customers that place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our reputation may be harmed. similarly, other laws and regulations have been adopted or proposed that require additional transparency regarding the employment practices of our suppliers, and any failure to maintain responsible sourcing practices could also adversely affect our relationships with customers and our reputation. 31 laws, regulations, policies and standards are complex and changing and may create uncertainty regarding compliance. laws, regulations, policies and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases, and their application in practice may evolve over time. as a result, our efforts to comply may fail, particularly if there is ambiguity as to how they should be applied in practice. failure to comply with any law, regulation, policy or standard may adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. new laws, regulations, policies and standards or evolving interpretations of legal requirements may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies or procedures and may divert management time and attention to compliance activities. our use of open source software may harm our business. certain of our software and our suppliers' software may contain or may be derived from open source software, and we have seen, and believe we will continue to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including software associated with our integrated circuit products, that incorporate open source software elements and operate in an open source environment, which, under certain open source licenses, may offer accessibility to a portion of a product's source code and may expose related intellectual property to adverse licensing conditions. licensing of such software may impose certain obligations on us if we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. for example, these obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to our customers in a manner that allows them to make such source code available to their customers or license such derivative works under a particular type of license that is different than what we customarily use to license our software. furthermore, in the course of product development, we may make contributions to third party open source projects that could obligate our intellectual property to adverse licensing conditions. for example, to encourage the growth of a software ecosystem that is interoperable with our products, we may need to contribute certain implementations under the open source licensing terms that govern such projects, which may adversely impact certain of our associated intellectual property. developing open source products, while adequately protecting the intellectual property rights upon which our licensing business depends, may prove burdensome and time-consuming under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage, and we may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. also, our use and our customers' use of open source software may subject our products and our customers' products to governmental scrutiny and delays in product certification, which could cause customers to view our products as less desirable than our competitors' products. while we believe we have taken appropriate steps and employ adequate controls to protect our intellectual property rights, our contributions to and use of open source software presents risks that could have an adverse effect on these rights and on our business. we operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns that may adversely impact our business. our stock price, earnings and the fair value of our investments are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations due to this dynamic and others, and to market downturns generally. the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, price erosion, evolving technical standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles (for both semiconductors and for many of the products in which they are used) and fluctuations in product supply and demand. from time to time, these factors, together with changes in general economic conditions, cause significant upturns and downturns in the semiconductor industry. periods of downturns have been characterized by diminished demand for end-user products, high inventory levels, periods of inventory adjustment, underutilization of manufacturing capacity, changes in revenue mix and erosion of average selling prices. we expect our business to continue to be subject to cyclical downturns, even when overall economic conditions are relatively stable. if we cannot offset semiconductor industry or market downturns, our revenues may decline, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. our stock price and earnings have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock and earnings include those identified above and throughout this risk factors section; volatility of the stock market in general and technology-based and semiconductor companies in particular; announcements concerning us, our suppliers, our competitors or our customers or licensees; and variations between our actual financial results or guidance and expectations of securities analysts or investors, among others. further, increased volatility in the financial markets and overall economic conditions may reduce the amounts that we realize in the future on our cash equivalents and marketable securities and may reduce our earnings as a result of any reductions in the fair values of marketable securities. in the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. due to changes in our stock price, we are and may in the future be the target of securities litigation. securities litigation could result in substantial uninsured costs and divert management's attention and our resources. certain legal matters, including certain securities litigation brought against us, are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. 32 there are risks associated with our indebtedness and our significant stock repurchase program. our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur may have negative consequences on our business, including, among others: requiring us to use cash to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends or general corporate or other purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, our industry and the market; and increasing our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations to the extent a portion of our debt has variable interest rates. our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which is subject to economic and political conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors, including factors which negatively impact our cash flows, such as licensees withholding some or all of the royalty payments they owe to us or our paying fines or modifying our business practices in connection with regulatory investigations or litigation, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to, among other things: refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures; reduce or eliminate our dividend payments; or sell selected assets. such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. in addition, any such refinancing, restructuring or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all, and if prevailing interest rates at the time of any such refinancing or restructuring are higher than our current rates, interest expense related to such refinancing or restructuring would increase. if there are adverse changes in the ratings assigned to our debt securities by credit rating agencies, our borrowing costs, our ability to access debt in the future and the terms of such debt could be adversely affected. our current outstanding variable rate indebtedness uses libor as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate. libor is the subject of recent national, international and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. these reforms may cause libor to disappear entirely after 2021 or to perform differently than in the past. we expect that reasonable alternatives to libor will be created and implemented prior to the 2021 target date. fallback provisions are being written into libor-based contracts to attempt to reduce the risk of sudden and unpredictable increases in the cost of variable rate indebtedness. however, we cannot predict the consequences and timing of these developments. we have implemented a stock repurchase program to repurchase up to $30 billion of our outstanding common stock. this stock repurchase program has significantly reduced and will continue to reduce the amount of cash that we have available to fund our operations, including research and development, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, dividends and other corporate purposes; and increases our exposure to adverse economic, market, industry and competitive conditions and developments, and other changes in our business and our industry. in addition, this significant decrease in our cash reserves exacerbates the risks described above associated with our indebtedness. our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches of our information technology systems, or other misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary or confidential information. third parties regularly attempt to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems, and most of such attempts are increasingly more sophisticated. these attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, criminal hackers or state-sponsored intrusions, include trying to covertly introduce malware to our computers and networks, including those in our manufacturing operations, and impersonating authorized users, among others. in addition, third party suppliers that we may rely on to store and/or process our confidential information may also be subject to similar attacks. such attempts could result in the misappropriation, theft, misuse, disclosure or loss or destruction of the intellectual property, or the proprietary, confidential or personal information, of us or our employees, customers, licensees, suppliers or other third parties, as well as damage to or disruptions in our information technology systems. these threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of successfully defending against them or implementing adequate preventative measures. we seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems may be successful, and in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. the misappropriation, theft, misuse, disclosure or loss or destruction of the intellectual property, or the proprietary, confidential or personal information, of us or our employees, customers, licensees, suppliers or other third parties, could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives, cause us to lose business, damage our reputation, subject us to legal or regulatory proceedings, cause us to incur other loss or liability and otherwise adversely affect our business. we expect to continue to devote significant resources to the security of our information technology systems. 33 in addition, employees and former employees, in particular former employees who become employees of our competitors, customers or licensees, may misappropriate, use, publish or provide to our competitors, customers, licensees or other third parties our intellectual property or proprietary or confidential business information. this risk is exacerbated as competitors for talent, particularly engineering talent, increasingly attempt to hire our employees. see the risk factor entitled we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. similarly, we provide access to certain of our intellectual property or proprietary or confidential business information to our direct and indirect customers and licensees and certain of our consultants, who may wrongfully use such intellectual property or information, or wrongfully disclose such intellectual property or information to third parties, including our competitors. potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. we regularly are subject to examination of our tax returns and reports by taxing authorities in the united states federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions, most notably in countries where we earn a routine return and the tax authorities believe substantial value-add activities are performed. our current examinations are at various stages with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds. we continually assess the likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjust the income tax provision, income taxes payable and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts giving rise to a revision become known. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related legal proceedings could materially differ from amounts reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. in such case, our income tax provision, results of operations and cash flows in the period or periods in which that determination is made could be negatively affected. the united states treasury department has issued proposed regulations on several provisions of the tax legislation, including foreign tax credits, fdii, beat and interest expense deduction limitations, which are expected to be finalized in the next several months. when finalized, these proposed regulations may adversely affect our provision for income taxes, results of operations and/or cash flows. we have tax incentives in singapore provided that we meet specified employment and other criteria, and as a result of the expiration of these incentives, our singapore tax rate is expected to increase in fiscal 2022 and again in fiscal 2027. if we do not meet the criteria required to retain such incentives, our singapore tax rate could increase prior to fiscal 2022, and our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. tax rules may change in a manner that adversely affects our future reported results of operations or the way we conduct our business. further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting (beps) project that was undertaken by the organization for economic co-operation and development (oecd). the oecd, which represents a coalition of member countries, recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles related to transfer pricing. these changes, as adopted by countries, may increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes, results of operations and cash flows. partially to address beps, we moved certain ip from singapore to the united states. as a result, if tax rates were to increase in the united states, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. global, regional or local economic conditions, or political actions including trade and/or national security protection policies, such as tariffs, that impact the mobile communications industry or the other industries in which we operate could negatively affect the demand for our products and services and our customers' or licensees' products and services, which may negatively affect our revenues. a decline in global, regional or local economic conditions, a slow-down in economic growth, political actions including trade and/or national security protection policies, such as tariffs, or actions by governments that limit or prevent us from transacting business with certain companies or that limit or prevent certain companies from transacting business with us, particularly in geographic regions with high concentrations of wireless voice and data users or high concentrations of our customers or licensees, could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and services and for the products and services of our customers or licensees, particularly equipment manufacturers or others in the wireless communications industry who buy their products, such as wireless operators. any prolonged economic downturn or trade war may result in a decrease in demand for our products and technologies; a decrease in demand for the products of our customers or licensees; the insolvency of key suppliers, customers or licensees; delays in reporting or payments from our licensees or customers; failures by counterparties; and negative effects on wireless device inventories. in addition, our customers' ability to purchase or pay for our products and services and network operators' ability to upgrade their wireless networks could be adversely affected by economic conditions, leading to a reduction, cancelation or delay of orders for our products and services. 34 we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. our future success depends largely upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel, and on our ability to continue to identify, attract, retain and motivate them. implementing our business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, as our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. the market for employees in our industry is extremely competitive, and competitors for talent, particularly engineering talent, increasingly attempt to hire, and to varying degrees have been successful in hiring, our employees, including by establishing local offices near our headquarters in san diego, california. a number of such competitors for talent are significantly larger than us and are able to offer compensation in excess of what we are able to offer. further, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the united states, making the pool of available talent even smaller. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our business may be harmed. currency fluctuations could negatively affect future product sales or royalty revenues, harm our ability to collect receivables or increase the u.s. dollar cost of our products. our customers sell their products throughout the world in various currencies. our consolidated revenues from international customers and licensees accounted for a significant portion of our total revenues in each of the last three fiscal years. adverse movements in currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business, revenues, results of operations and cash flows due to a number of factors, including, among others: our products and those of our customers and licensees that are sold outside the united states may become less price-competitive, which may result in reduced demand for those products or downward pressure on average selling prices; certain of our revenues that are derived from products that are sold in foreign currencies could decrease, resulting in lower revenues, cash flows and margins; certain of our revenues, such as royalties, that are derived from licensee or customer sales denominated in foreign currencies could decrease, resulting in lower revenues and cash flows; our foreign suppliers may raise their prices if they are impacted by currency fluctuations, resulting in higher than expected costs, and lower margins and cash flows; certain of our costs that are denominated in foreign currencies could increase, resulting in higher than expected costs and cash outflows; and foreign exchange hedging exposes us to counterparty risk and may require the payment of structuring fees. if the foreign exchange hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting, the hedge results may cause earnings volatility. the foreign exchange hedging activities are designed to lessen earnings volatility; therefore, hedges may reduce the impact of currency fluctuations to certain revenues and costs. failures in our products or services, or in the products or services of our customers or licensees, including those resulting from security vulnerabilities, defects or errors, could harm our business. the use of devices containing our products to interact with untrusted systems or otherwise access untrusted content creates a risk of exposing the system hardware and software in those devices to malicious attacks. while we continue to focus on this issue and are taking measures to safeguard our products from cybersecurity threats, device capabilities continue to evolve, enabling more elaborate functionality and applications, and increasing the risk of security failures. further, our products are inherently complex and may contain defects or errors that are detected only when the products are in use. development of products and features in new domains of technology and the migration to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes are complex, add risk to manufacturing yields and reliability and increase the likelihood of product defects or errors. because our products and services are responsible for critical functions in our customers' products and networks, security failures, defects or errors in our products or services could have an adverse impact on us, on our customers and the end users of our customers' products. such adverse impact could include shipment delays; write-offs of our inventories, property, plant and equipment and intangible assets; unfavorable purchase commitments; a shift of business to our competitors; a decrease in demand for connected devices and wireless services; damage to our reputation and our customer relationships; regulatory actions; and other financial liability or harm to our business. in addition, security failures, defects or errors in the products of our customers or licensees could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows due to a delay or decrease in demand for our products or services generally, and our premium-tier products in particular, among other factors. further, failures, defects or errors in our products or those of our customers or licensees entail the risk of product liability claims or recalls. 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk marketable securities we have made investments in marketable equity securities of companies of varying size, style, industry and geography and changes in investment allocations may affect the price volatility of our investments. on july 26, 2018, we announced that we had been authorized to repurchase up to $30 billion of our common stock. the actions taken pursuant to our stock repurchase program have significantly reduced the amount of cash available to fund our investments in marketable securities. equity price risk. at september 29, 2019 , the recorded value of our marketable equity securities was $418 million. a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities at september 29, 2019 would have caused a decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities of $42 million. a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities at september 30, 2018 would have caused a decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities of $17 million. interest rate risk. we invest a portion of our cash in a number of diversified fixed- and floating-rate securities consisting of cash equivalents, marketable debt securities and demand deposits that are subject to interest rate risk. changes in the general level of interest rates can affect the fair value of our investment portfolio. if interest rates in the general economy were to rise, our holdings could lose value. as a result of divesting a substantial portion of our marketable securities portfolio and changes in portfolio allocation, the fair value of our investment portfolio is subject to lower interest rate risk. at september 29, 2019 and september 30, 2018 , a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 basis points across the entire yield curve on our holdings would have resulted in a negligible decrease in the fair value of our holdings. other investments equity price risk. we hold investments in non-marketable equity instruments in privately held companies that may be impacted by equity price risks. volatility in the equity markets could negatively affect our investees' ability to raise additional capital as well as our ability to realize value from our investments through initial public offerings, mergers and private sales. consequently, we could incur impairment losses or realized losses on all or a part of the values of our non-marketable equity investments. at september 29, 2019 , the aggregate carrying value of our non-marketable equity investments was included in other noncurrent assets and was $1.1 billion . debt and interest rate swap agreements interest rate risk. at september 29, 2019 , we have an aggregate principal amount of $15.5 billion of unsecured floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturity dates. we have also entered into interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $1.8 billion to effectively convert certain fixed-rate interest payments into floating-rate payments. the interest rates on our floating-rate notes and interest rate swaps are based on libor. at september 29, 2019 , a hypothetical increase in libor-based interest rates of 100 basis points would cause our interest expense to increase by $18 million on an annualized basis as it relates to our floating-rate notes and interest rate swap agreements. at september 30, 2018 , a hypothetical increase in libor-based interest rates of 100 basis points would have caused our interest expense to increase by $22 million on an annualized basis as it relates to our floating-rate notes and interest rate swap agreements. additionally, we have a commercial paper program that provides for the issuance of up to $5.0 billion of commercial paper. at september 29, 2019 , we had $499 million of commercial paper outstanding, with original maturities of less than three months. changes in interest rates could affect the amounts of interest that we pay if we refinance the current outstanding commercial paper with new debt. additional information regarding our notes and related interest rate swap agreements and commercial paper program is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1. significant accounting policies and notes to consolidated financial statements, note 6. debt. foreign exchange risk we manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial counterparties. we utilize such derivative financial instruments for hedging or risk management purposes rather than for speculative purposes. counterparties to our derivative contracts are all major banking institutions. in the event of the financial insolvency or distress of a counterparty to our derivative financial instruments, we may be unable to settle transactions if the counterparty does not provide us with sufficient collateral to secure its net settlement obligations to us, which could have a negative impact on our results. a description of our foreign currency accounting policies is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1. significant accounting policies. 58 foreign currency options. at september 29, 2019 , our net asset related to foreign currency options designated as hedges of foreign currency risk on royalties earned from certain licensees was negligible. if our forecasted royalty revenues for currencies in which we hedge were to decline by 20% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in our hedged foreign currency, we would not incur a loss as our hedge positions would continue to be fully effective. based on forecasts at september 30, 2018 , assuming the same hypothetical market conditions, we would also not have incurred a loss. foreign currency forwards. at september 29, 2019 , our net asset related to foreign currency forward contracts designated as hedges of foreign currency risk on certain operating expenditure transactions was negligible. if our forecasted operating expenditures for currencies in which we hedge were to decline by 20% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in our hedged foreign currency, we would incur a negligible loss. based on forecasts at september 30, 2018 , assuming the same hypothetical market conditions, a negligible loss would also have been incurred. at september 29, 2019 , our net asset related to foreign currency forward contracts not designated as hedging instruments used to manage foreign currency risk on certain receivables and payables was negligible. if the foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 20% in our hedged foreign currency, we would not incur a loss as the change in the fair value of the foreign currency option and forward contracts would be offset by the change in fair value of the related receivables and/or payables being economically hedged. based on forecasts at september 30, 2018 , assuming the same hypothetical market conditions, we would also not have incurred a loss. net investment hedges. at september 29, 2019 , we have designated $1.4 billion of foreign currency-denominated liabilities as hedges of our net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. if foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 10% in our hedged foreign currency, there would be an increase of $136 million in the accumulated other comprehensive loss attributable to the cumulative translation adjustment at september 29, 2019 related to our net investment hedges. the change in value recorded in cumulative translation adjustment would be expected to offset a corresponding foreign currency translation gain or loss from our investment in foreign subsidiaries. functional currency. financial assets and liabilities held by consolidated subsidiaries that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. as a global company, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. as a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. while we may hedge certain transactions with non-u.s. customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate the risks discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks.risk factors 18 risk factors below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this annual report. readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report. we undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this annual report. readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this annual report, which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. part i item 1. business we incorporated in california in 1985 and reincorporated in delaware in 1991. we operate and report using a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the last sunday in september. our 52-week fiscal years consist of four equal fiscal quarters of 13 weeks each, and our 53-week fiscal years consist of three 13-week fiscal quarters and one 14-week fiscal quarter. the financial results for our 53-week fiscal years and our 14-week fiscal quarters will not be exactly comparable to our 52-week fiscal years and our 13-week fiscal quarters. the fiscal years ended september 27, 2020 and september 29, 2019 included 52 weeks. the fiscal year ended september 30, 2018 included 53 weeks. overview we are a global leader in the development and commercialization of foundational technologies for the wireless industry. our technologies and products are used in mobile devices and other wireless products, including network equipment, broadband gateway equipment, consumer electronic devices and other connected devices. our inventions have helped power the growth in smartphones, which have connected billions of people. we are a leader in 3g (third generation), 4g (fourth generation) and 5g (fifth generation) wireless technologies. our technologies and products are also used in industry segments or applications beyond mobile, including automotive and internet of things (iot) (which includes connectivity and networking, computing and fixed wireless broadband), among others. we derive revenues principally from sales of integrated circuit products and licensing of our intellectual property, including patents and other rights. the foundational technologies we invent help power the modern mobile experience, impacting how the world connects, computes and communicates. we share these inventions broadly through our licensing program, enabling wide ecosystem access to technologies at the core of mobile innovation, and through the sale of our wireless integrated circuit platforms (also known as chips or chipsets) and other products. we collaborate across the ecosystem, including manufacturers, operators, developers, system integrators, cloud providers, governments and industry standards organizations, to enable a global environment to drive continued progress and growth. we have a long history of driving innovation. we have played and continue to play a leading role in developing system level inventions that serve as the foundation for 3g, 4g and 5g wireless technologies. this includes the cdma (code division multiple access) and ofdma (orthogonal frequency division multiple access) families of technologies, with the latter encompassing lte (long term evolution) and 5g nr (new radio), which, along with tdma (time division multiple access), are the primary digital technologies currently used to transmit voice or data over radio waves using a public or private cellular wireless network. we own significant intellectual property, including patents, patent applications and trade secrets, applicable to products that implement any version of cdma and/or ofdma technologies. companies in the mobile industry generally recognize that any company seeking to develop, manufacture and/or sell devices or infrastructure equipment that use cdma-based and/or ofdma-based technologies will require a license or other rights to use our patents. we also develop and commercialize numerous other key technologies used in mobile and other wireless devices, and we own substantial intellectual property related to these technologies. some of these inventions are contributed to and commercialized as industry standards, such as certain video and audio codecs, wi-fi, gps (global positioning system) and bluetooth. we have also developed other 5 technologies that are used by wireless devices that are not related to industry standards, such as operating systems, user interfaces, graphics and camera processing functionality, rf (radio frequency), rffe (radio frequency front-end) and antenna designs, artificial intelligence (ai) and machine learning techniques and application processor architectures. our patents cover a wide range of technologies across the entire wireless system (including wireless devices and network infrastructure equipment), not just the portion of such patented technologies incorporated into chipsets. we are organized on the basis of products and services and have three reportable segments. we conduct business primarily through our qct (qualcomm cdma technologies) semiconductor business and our qtl (qualcomm technology licensing) licensing business. qct develops and supplies integrated circuits and system software based on 3g/4g/5g and other technologies for use in mobile devices, wireless networks, broadband gateway equipment, consumer electronic devices, other devices used in iot and automotive systems for telematics and infotainment. qtl grants licenses or otherwise provides rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products. our qsi (qualcomm strategic initiatives) reportable segment makes strategic investments. we also have nonreportable segments, including qualcomm government technologies or qgov, our cloud ai inference processing initiative and other technology and service initiatives. industry trends as the largest technology platform in the world, mobile has transformed the way we connect, compute and communicate. the scale and pace of innovation in the mobile industry, especially around connectivity and computing technologies, is also impacting industries beyond wireless, empowering new services, new business models and new experiences. our inventions and licensing program have been integral to, and provided foundational technologies for, the evolution of the mobile industry. advancing connectivity. 3g and 4g mobile broadband technologies have been key innovations of mobile, providing users with fast, reliable, always-on connectivity. as of september 30, 2020, there were approximately 6.2 billion 3g/4g connections globally, representing 78% of total mobile connections (gsma intelligence, november 2020). by 2024, global 3g/4g connections are projected to reach 6.5 billion, with approximately 89% of these connections in emerging regions and china (gsma intelligence, november 2020). 3g networks, first launched in the early 2000s, ushered in the mobile broadband era, serving as a true alternative to traditional desktop internet service, allowing users to experience the internet from virtually anywhere. the combination of faster processing and larger screens with mobile broadband connectivity has transformed how people interact with information and with each other. the launch of 4g in 2010 brought true mobile broadband connectivity to wireless networks. with its faster data rates and greater capacity, 4g has become the foundational technology to many of the applications and services used today, including e-commerce, video streaming, video calling, social media and gaming. 3g and 4g mobile broadband technologies have also helped to strengthen economic and social development globally by providing access to government and healthcare resources and creating new educational and entrepreneurial opportunities. with the first 5g global specifications defined in 2018 by 3gpp (3rd generation partnership project), an industry standards development organization, initial commercial 5g network deployments and device launches, which focus on enhanced mobile broadband services, began in 2019 and will continue into 2021 and beyond. as of september 30, 2020, more than 110 operators have deployed 5g commercial networks in nearly 50 countries and territories, and over 400 operators are investing in 5g (gsa, october 2020). calendar year 2020 5g global smartphone shipments are expected to reach more than 200 million units (idc, mobile phone tracker, 2020q2). with support for multi-gigabit data rates, low latency and greater capacity, 5g enhances mobile broadband services, including ultra-high definition (4k) video streaming and sharing, near-instantaneous access to cloud services, multi-player cloud gaming and ar/vr/xr (augmented reality/virtual reality/extended reality) applications. 5g also brings more capacity and efficiency to cellular networks, which may enable operators to reduce their operating costs and offer new unlimited mobile data plans. the second 5g global specifications defined in 2020 by 3gpp (release 16) and future releases of 5g are expected to expand the reach of the technology to industries beyond mobile to create new services, business models and experiences, such as automated driving built on the concepts of computer vision, sensor fusion and vehicle-to-vehicle communications. we believe 5g will also enable artificial intelligence-based platforms designed to bring greater autonomy and wireless connectivity to factory automation for more reconfigurable manufacturing and other industrial applications (known as industrial iot) through ultra-reliable, ultra-low latency communication links. we also expect 5g to connect a significant number of things (also known as iot), including among others, consumer, enterprise, retail, wearable and voice and music devices, with connectivity designed to meet diverse (low) power and cost requirements, as well as to address both low- and high-complexity applications. most 5g devices include multimode support for 3g, 4g and wi-fi, enabling service continuity where 5g has yet to be deployed and simultaneous connectivity across 4g technology, while also allowing mobile operators to utilize current network deployments. at the same time, 4g is expected to continue to evolve in parallel with the further development of 5g and become fundamental to many of the key 5g technologies (through multi-connectivity), such as 5g massive iot leveraging lte iot, support for unlicensed spectrum and gigabit lte user data speeds. the first phase of 5g networks predominantly supports mobile broadband services for smartphones, both in lower spectrum bands below 7 ghz (commonly referred to as sub-6, sub-7 or frequency range 1) and in higher bands above 24 ghz (commonly referred to as millimeter wave (mmwave) or frequency range 2). as with previous generations of mobile networks, it will take time to deploy new 6 5g networks; however, we expect that deployment of 5g networks will be at a faster pace as compared to the transition from 3g to 4g technologies. consumer demand in smartphones. from october 2019 through september 2020, approximately 1.2 billion smartphones are estimated to have shipped globally, representing a year-over-year decrease of approximately 9% primarily driven by the global spread of the coronavirus (covid-19) pandemic, which negatively impacted consumer demand for smartphones and replacement rates (idc, mobile phone tracker, 2020q2). smartphone shipments in calendar 2021 are expected to increase by approximately 9% year-over-year (idc quarterly mobile phone tracker, 2020q2), reflecting a gradual recovery in demand for smartphones and replacement rates from the negative effects of the covid-19 pandemic. looking beyond 2021, we expect replacement rates to moderately lengthen when compared to pre-covid-19 levels, particularly in developed regions and china, as consumer demand is increasingly driven by new product launches and/or innovation cycles. consumer demand for new types of experiences, combined with the needs of mobile operators and device manufacturers to provide differentiated features and services, is driving continued innovation within the smartphone industry, across connectivity, processing, ai, multimedia, imaging, audio and more. as a result, the smartphone continues to be the go-to device for social networking, music and video streaming, gaming, email and web browsing, among others. it is expected that the evolution of 5g will fuel further innovation within the smartphone industry to support more intuitive and immersive experiences. transforming other industries. with their significant scale and highly integrated solutions, industries beyond mobile, including automotive and iot, among others, are leveraging the same technology innovations found in today's leading smartphones to enhance existing products and services as well as to create new products and services. our inventions that contribute to the formation of advanced cellular technologies, such as 3g, 4g and now 5g connectivity, are helping to drive, and in the case of 5g accelerate the pace of, this transformation. for example, in the automotive industry, approximately 70% of new vehicles produced in 2025 are projected to have cellular connectivity, compared to 48% in 2019 (strategy analytics, october 2020). in addition, the installed base of non-mobile devices with cellular connectivity, which includes iot devices among others, is projected to grow 190% between 2020 and 2024 (abi research, october 2020). wireless technologies overview the demand in the use of wireless devices worldwide and the demand for data services and applications requires continuous innovation to improve the user experience, support new services, increase network capacity, make use of different frequency bands and allow for dense network deployments. to meet these requirements, different wireless communications technologies continue to evolve. we have a long history of heavily investing in research and development and have developed foundational technologies that drive the continued evolution of the wireless industry, including cdma and ofdma. as a result, we have developed and acquired (and continue to develop and acquire) significant related intellectual property. this intellectual property has been incorporated into the most widely accepted and deployed cellular wireless communications technology standards, and we have licensed it to several hundred licensees, including leading wireless device and infrastructure manufacturers. cellular wireless technologies. relevant cellular wireless technologies can be grouped into the following categories. tdma-based. tdma-based technologies are characterized by their access method allowing several users to share the same frequency channel by dividing the signal into different time slots. most of these systems are classified as 2g technology. the main example of tdma-based technologies is gsm (global system for mobile communications). the transition of wireless devices from 2g to 3g/4g and the deployment of 5g technologies continued around the world with estimated 3g/4g/5g connections up 7% year-over-year (gsma intelligence, november 2020). as of september 30, 2020, there were approximately 1.6 billion gsm connections worldwide, representing approximately 20% of total cellular connections, down from 25% as of september 30, 2019 (gsma intelligence, november 2020). cdma-based. cdma-based technologies are characterized by their access method allowing several users to share the same frequency and time by allocating different orthogonal codes to individual users. most of the cdma-based technologies are classified as 3g technology. there are a number of variants of cdma-based technologies deployed around the world, in particular cdma2000, ev-do (evolution data optimized), wcdma (wideband cdma) and td-scdma (time division-synchronous cdma) (deployed exclusively in china). cdma-based technologies provide vastly improved capacity for voice and low-rate data services as compared to analog technologies and significant improvements over 2g technology. as of september 30, 2020, there were approximately 1.9 billion cdma-based connections worldwide, representing approximately 24% of total cellular connections, down from 26% as of september 30, 2019 as consumers migrate to ofdma-based technologies (gsma intelligence, november 2020). 7 ofdma-based. ofdma-based technologies are characterized by their access method allowing several users to share the same frequency band and time by allocating different subcarriers to individual users. most of the ofdma-based technologies deployed prior to 2020 are classified as 4g technology. 5g heavily leverages ofdma-based technologies. 3gpp developed 4g specifications through the standardization of the radio component (lte) and the core network component (enhanced packet core or epc). similarly, 3gpp has developed 5g specifications through the specification of the radio component (nr) and the core network component (5g core or 5gc). unlike 4g that has fixed orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (ofdm) parameterization, 5g has multiple ofdm parameterizations to address a wide range of spectrum and use cases. we continue to play a significant role in the further development of lte-based technologies, such as narrowband iot (nb-iot), enhanced machine type communications (emtc) and enhanced tv broadcast (entv), in addition to the core lte operation evolution, such as enhancements for mobility and massive multiple-input multiple-output (mimo) operation. lte is incorporated in 3gpp specifications beginning with release 8 and uses ofdma in the downlink and single carrier fdma (frequency division multiple access) in the uplink. lte has two modes, fdd (frequency division duplex) and tdd (time division duplex), to support paired and unpaired spectrum, respectively, and continues to evolve as 3gpp defines new specifications. the principal benefit of lte is its ability to leverage a wide range of spectrum (bandwidths of up to 20 mhz or more through aggregation). lte is designed to seamlessly interwork with 3g technologies through multimode devices. lte advanced brings many more enhancements, including carrier aggregation, advanced multi-antenna techniques and optimizations for small cells. apart from improving the performance of existing networks, there are also enhancements under the umbrella of lte advanced pro, including lte direct for proximity-based device-to-device discovery, improved lte broadcast, optimizations of narrowband communications designed for iot (known as emtc and nb-iot) and the ability to use lte advanced in unlicensed spectrum (lte unlicensed), as well as in shared spectrum bands in various regions (such as the citizens broadband radio service, or cbrs, in the united states). there are multiple options for deploying lte unlicensed for different deployment scenarios. laa (licensed assisted access), introduced as part of 3gpp release 13, aggregates unlicensed and licensed spectrum in the downlink and is being deployed globally by mobile operators. laa is a key technology for many operators with limited licensed spectrum to deliver gigabit lte speeds. elaa (enhanced laa), introduced as part of 3gpp release 14, is an evolution of laa. elaa enables aggregation of unlicensed and licensed spectrum in the uplink. beginning with release 14, 3gpp specifications provide enhancements specifically for vehicular communications known as cellular vehicle-to-everything (c-v2x), which includes both direct communication (vehicle-to-vehicle, vehicle-to-infrastructure and vehicle-to-pedestrian) in dedicated spectrum that is independent of a cellular network and cellular communications with networks in traditional mobile broadband licensed spectrum. c-v2x is designed to serve as the foundation for intelligent transportation systems (its), enabling vehicles to communicate with each other and everything around them, providing non-line-of-sight awareness for enhanced road safety and traffic efficiency. 3gpp release 16, which was completed in july 2020, incorporates 5g features for c-v2x, such as higher throughput, lower latency and increased reliability capabilities to enable a higher level of performance and predictability required for automated driving and other advanced safety use cases. as of september 30, 2020, there were approximately 4.3 billion global lte connections worldwide, representing approximately 55% of total cellular connections, up from 49% as of september 30, 2019 (gsma intelligence, november 2020). the wireless industry is actively developing and commercializing 5g technologies. initial commercial 5g network deployments and device launches began in calendar 2019 and continued throughout 2020. we expect that 5g network deployments and device launches will increase over the next several years. many of our inventions at the core of 3g and 4g serve as foundational technologies for 5g. 5g is designed to transform the role of wireless technologies and already incorporates or soon will incorporate advancements on 3g/4g features available today, including device-to-device capabilities and the use of all different types of spectrum (including licensed, unlicensed and shared spectrum). we continue to play a significant role in driving advancements in 5g, including contributing to 3gpp standardization activities that are defining the continued evolution of 5g nr and 5gc standards. the first global set of 5g standards is incorporated in 3gpp specifications starting from release 15, which was initially completed in march 2018. release 15 enables different architecture deployment choices of 5g networks while sharing the same radio access technology. this is due to 5g's ability to target diverse services with very different technical requirements (from enhanced mobile broadband to massive iot to mission critical services), its utilization of diverse types of spectrum (from the low bands to mmwave bands) and its ability to support diverse types of deployment scenarios. predominant technological components of 5g include the ability to address ultra-reliable, low-latency communication, new channel coding schemes to efficiently support large data blocks, mimo to increase coverage and network capacity and mobile mmwave to increase the data rate offered to users. 5g uses ofdma in the downlink and either ofdma or single carrier fdma in the uplink depending on the use case. like 3g and 4g, 5g supports carrier aggregation across spectrum bands, across fdd and tdd and across licensed and unlicensed spectrum (starting with release 16), and 5g also supports dual connectivity across 4g and 5g. a key benefit of 5g is its ability to take advantage of very wide channel bandwidth such as 400/100 mhz 8 (compared to lte's 20 mhz maximum bandwidth, which requires carrier aggregation to combine spectrum beyond 20 mhz). as with previous cellular generations, 5g is designed to support seamless compatibility with 2g/3g/4g technologies through multimode devices. 5g is the first generation of cellular wireless communication systems to use transmissions at mmwave bands, which creates certain challenges including coverage limitations and blockages, heightened costs and power constraints. in order to address these challenges, we have been a leader in designing rffe modules and rf filter products that use adaptive beamforming (which spatially concentrates radio energy in a given beam direction to extend the range) and that enable the efficient tracking and switching of beams in accordance with varying radio conditions. mmwave deployments rely on small cells (low-powered cellular base stations typically used for increased system capacity and which may have already incorporated gigabit lte) to allow for faster, more reliable mobile service with transmissions at mmwave bands. release 16 not only introduced enhancements to 5g mobile broadband experiences (e.g., more capacity, improved coverage, mobility and better device power efficiency), but also expanded 5g technologies into new use cases and industries. for example, to better enable new industrial iot use cases, such as factory automation and other mission critical applications, release 16 added support for private 5g networks, efficient wireless ethernet over 5g, 5g time-sensitive networking (tsn) and further enhanced ultra-reliable low latency communications. release 16 also fulfilled the 5g vision of supporting different spectrum types by expanding 5g into unlicensed spectrum with 5g nr unlicensed (nr-u). release 16 nr-u focused on sub-7ghz operation, specifically 5ghz and 6ghz bands, and release 17 will expand nr-u to support higher bands such as 60 ghz. high-precision positioning was another focus area in release 16. accurate device positioning is a key enabler for many applications, such as public safety and indoor navigation. release 16 added new capabilities for 5g positioning, supporting techniques such as multi-cell roundtrip time, angle of arrival/departure and time difference of arrival. release 16 addressed the growing needs of low-power, wide-area iot use cases by allowing in-band deployments of nb-iot and emtc in 5g carriers, as well as supporting these low-complexity iot technologies with the new 5g core network. additionally, to make mmwave densification more cost efficient, release 16 introduced integrated access and backhaul that allows a base station to provide both wireless access for devices and wireless backhaul connectivity, thereby eliminating the need for a wired backhaul. other (non-cellular) wireless technologies. there are other, non-cellular wireless technologies that have also been broadly adopted. wireless local area networks. wireless local area networks (wlan), such as wi-fi, link two or more nearby devices wirelessly and usually provide connectivity through an access point. we are actively involved in innovative programs developed in the context of the wi-fi alliance, a non-profit organization that drives global wi-fi adoption and evolution. wi-fi systems are based primarily on standards developed by the institute of electrical and electronics engineers 802.11 working group. amendments of the 802.11 standard are commonly referred to by the names made popular by the wi-fi alliance (for example, 802.11ax is known as wi-fi 6). wi-fi 6, a recent amendment to 802.11, adds advanced features such as downlink and uplink ofdma and uplink multiple-user mimo. this technology primarily targets connectivity for mobile devices, tablets, laptops and other consumer electronic devices using the 2.4 ghz and 5 ghz spectrums. up to 1200mhz of new spectrum has been added in the 6ghz band in the united states, which triples the available spectrum for wi-fi, which can be used by new wi-fi 6 extended devices. for 60ghz mmwave technology, 802.11ay adds wider channel bandwidth and the use of mimo to the existing 802.11ad (also known as gigabit wi-fi or wigig) standard. 802.11ah targets sub-1 ghz spectrum. we played a leading role in the development of 802.11ac, 802.11ax, 802.11ay, 802.11ah and 802.11ad, and continue to play a lead role in the evolution of the 802.11 family of standards with the development of the new 802.11be standard, which is expected to be known as wi-fi 7. bluetooth. bluetooth is a wireless personal area network that provides wireless connectivity between devices over short distances ranging from a few centimeters to approximately one hundred meters. bluetooth technology provides wireless connectivity to a wide range of fixed or mobile consumer electronic devices. bluetooth functionalities are standardized by the bluetooth special interest group in various versions of the specification (from 1.0 to 5.2), which include different functionalities, such as enhanced data rate, low energy and mesh technologies. we are a leading contributor to bluetooth technologies in the areas of mobile devices, audio and mesh technologies. location positioning technologies. location positioning technologies continue to evolve in order to deliver an enhanced commercial location experience and comply with new mandates on location for e911 (enhanced 911) calls. we are a key developer of the assisted-gps (a-gps), assisted global navigation satellite system (a-gnss) and wlan positioning technologies used in most cellular handsets today. for uses requiring the best reliability and accuracy for e911 services and navigational based services, a-gps, a-gnss and wlan provide leading-edge solutions. in 3gpp release 16, we led the standardization of many 4g and 5g-based positioning capabilities. the industry continues to evolve to support additional inputs for improving the location experience. our products and intellectual property now support multiple constellations for a-gnss, including: gps, glonass, galileo, navic and beidou; wi-fi-based and bluetooth-based positioning for wlan, including wi-fi rssi (received signal strength indication) and wi-fi rtt (round-trip time) signals for indoor location; observed time difference of arrival positioning for lte access (e.g., in rural and indoor areas); and third-party inertial sensors. the combination of these different location solutions is used to ensure accurate location availability in all areas. 9 other significant technologies used in cellular and certain consumer electronic devices and networks . we have played and continue to play a leading role in developing and/or have acquired many of the other technologies used across the wireless system, including in cellular handsets and certain other consumer electronic devices and networks, such as: on-device ai features, including machine learning platforms and the application of ai and machine learning techniques to edge computing and other use cases; graphics and display processing functionality; video coding based on the hevc (high efficiency video codec) standard, which is being deployed to support 4k video and immersive media content and the next generation vvc (versatile video codec) standard, which is designed to power the creation and consumption of rich digital media experiences; audio coding, including evs (enhanced voice services) and mpeg-h 3d audio; the latest version of 3gpp's codec for multimedia use and for voice/speech use; multimedia transport, including mpeg-dash (dynamic adaptive streaming over http) enabling advanced multimedia experiences; camera and camcorder functions; operating system and user interface features; ar/vr/xr features enabling new types of user experiences; security and content protection systems for enhanced device security without compromising the user experience and ultrasonic fingerprint readers for single touch authentication; volatile (lp-ddr4, 5) and non-volatile (emmc) memory and related controllers; fast charging features, enabling devices to charge quickly, safely and efficiently; power management systems for improved battery life and device charging; and system on chip (soc) architecture, low-power computing and other optimization techniques. operating segments we have three reportable segments. we conduct business primarily through qct and qtl, while qsi makes strategic investments. revenues in fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 for our reportable segments were as follows (in millions, except percentages): 2020 2019 2018 qct $ 16,493 $ 14,639 $ 17,282 as a percent of total 70 % 60 % 76 % qtl $ 5,028 $ 4,591 $ 5,042 as a percent of total 21 % 19 % 22 % qsi $ 36 $ 152 $ 100 as a percent of total % 1 % % qct segment. qct is a leading developer and supplier of integrated circuits and system software based on 3g/4g/5g and other technologies for use in wireless voice and data communications, networking, application processing, multimedia and global positioning system products. qct's integrated circuit products are sold and its system software is licensed to manufacturers that use our products in a broad range of devices, from low-tier, entry-level devices primarily for emerging regions to premium-tier devices, including mobile devices (primarily smartphones), tablets, laptops, data modules, handheld wireless computers and gaming devices, other consumer electronics, other iot devices and applications, automotive systems for telematics and infotainment, access points and routers, broadband gateway equipment, data cards and infrastructure equipment and sensor hubs. our 3g/4g/5g modem roadmap delivers the latest network technologies across multiple product tiers and devices. this roadmap is the result of extensive collaboration with manufacturers, operators, developers, systems integrators, cloud providers, governments and industry standards organizations, as well as our years of research into emerging network standards and the development of integrated circuits that take advantage of these new standards, while maintaining backward compatibility with existing standards. the qualcomm snapdragon family of highly-integrated, system-based solutions include the snapdragon mobile, compute and automotive platforms. each platform consists of application processors and wireless connectivity capabilities, including our cellular modem that provides core baseband modem functionality for voice and data communications, non-cellular wireless connectivity (such as wi-fi and bluetooth) and global positioning functions. our snapdragon application processor functions include security, graphics, display, audio, video, camera and ai. our central processing units are designed based on arm architecture and are designed to deliver high levels of compute performance with optimized power consumption. our qualcomm hexagon processors are designed to support a variety of signal processing applications, including ai, audio and sensor processing. our qualcomm adreno graphics processing units are designed to deliver high quality graphics performance for visually rich 3d gaming and user interfaces. in addition to the highly integrated core system-on-chip (soc), we also design and supply supporting components, including the rf, pm (power management), audio, codecs, speaker amps and additional wireless connectivity integrated circuits. these supporting components, in addition to our cellular modems and application processors comprising our core soc, are also sold as individual components. the 10 combination of the snapdragon soc, system software and supporting components provide an overall platform with optimized performance and efficiency, enabling manufacturers to design and deliver powerful, slim and power-efficient devices ready for integration with the complex cellular networks worldwide. we have also integrated our snapdragon platform with our rffe components to create our snapdragon 5g modem-rf systems, the world's first commercial modem-to-antenna 5g solution designed to maximize data speeds and performance, support superior call connectivity and coverage, and extend battery life on mobile devices. our portfolio of rf products includes qualcomm rffe components that are designed to simplify the rf design for 5g front-end, lte multimode and multiband mobile devices, including sub-6 ghz and mmwave devices, to reduce power consumption and to improve radio performance. qct offers an advanced portfolio of rffe products primarily for mobile devices, in addition to broadband gateway equipment, infrastructure equipment, laptops, automotive, industrial iot and other iot applications. our technologies provide comprehensive rffe product offerings with system level performance from the modem and transceiver to the antenna that include complex 4g/5g transmit and receive modules, power tracking, tuning systems, filtering, multimode-multiband power amplification, low noise amplifiers and mmwave antenna solutions, in addition to discrete filtering products across mobile, automotive, industrial iot and other iot industries. our wireless connectivity products also consist of integrated circuits and system software for wi-fi, bluetooth and frequency modulation (fm), as well as technologies that support location data and services, including gps, glonass, galileo, navic and beidou. our wireless connectivity products provide additional connectivity for mobile devices, tablets, laptops, other consumer electronics, other iot applications and automotive telematics and infotainment systems. qct also offers standalone wi-fi, bluetooth, fingerprint sensor, applications processor and ethernet products for mobile devices, consumer electronics, computers, other iot applications, other connected devices and automotive telematics and infotainment systems. our networking products include wi-fi, ethernet and powerline chips, network processors and software. these products help enable home and business networks to support the growing number of connected devices, digital media and data services. other than for our rffe modules and rf filter products, qct utilizes a fabless production model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. therefore, we primarily rely on third-parties to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits based primarily on our proprietary designs and test programs. our suppliers also are responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. integrated circuits are die cut from silicon wafers that have completed the package assembly and test manufacturing processes. the semiconductor package supports the electrical contacts that connect the integrated circuit to a circuit board. die cut from silicon wafers are the essential components of all of our integrated circuits and a significant portion of the total integrated circuit cost. we employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing models to purchase our integrated circuits. under the turnkey model, our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. under the two-stage manufacturing model, we purchase die in singular or wafer form from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-parties for manufacturing services such as wafer bump, probe, assembly and the majority of our final test requirements. the primary foundry suppliers for our various digital, analog/mixed-signal, rf and pm integrated circuits are global foundries, samsung electronics, semiconductor manufacturing international corporation (smic), taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company (tsmc) and united microelectronics. the primary semiconductor assembly and test suppliers are advanced semiconductor engineering, amkor technology, siliconware precision industries and statschippac. the majority of our foundry and semiconductor assembly and test suppliers are located in the asia-pacific region. qct primarily uses internal fabrication facilities to manufacture rffe modules and rf filter products, and its manufacturing operations consist of front-end and back-end processes. the front-end processes primarily take place at manufacturing facilities located in germany and singapore and involve the imprinting of substrate wafers with the structure and circuitry required for the products to function (also known as wafer fabrication). the back-end processes include the assembly, packaging and test of rffe modules and rf filter products and their preparation for distribution. the back-end manufacturing facilities are located in china and singapore. qct's sales are primarily made through standard purchase orders for delivery of products. qct generally allows customers to reschedule delivery dates within a defined time frame and to cancel orders prior to shipment with or without payment of a penalty, depending on when the order is canceled. the industry in which qct operates is intensely competitive. qct competes worldwide with a number of u.s. and international designers and manufacturers of semiconductors. as a result of global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological changes, lengthening replacement cycles for mobile devices, device manufacturer concentrations and the potential for further industry consolidation, we anticipate the industry to remain very competitive. we believe that the principal competitive factors for our products include performance, level of integration, quality, compliance with industry standards, price, time-to-market, system cost, design and engineering capabilities, new product innovation, growth and scaling of distribution channels, desire by certain customers to use multiple suppliers and customer support. qct also competes in both single-mode and multimode environments against alternative communications technologies. additional competitive factors exist for qct product offerings that have expanded into adjacent industry segments or applications beyond mobile, including automotive and iot. the automotive industry is subject to long design-in time frames, long product life cycles and a high degree of regulatory and safety requirements, necessitating suppliers to the industry to comply with stringent qualification processes, very low defect rates and high reliability standards, all of which results in a significant barrier to entry and may result in increased costs. 11 qct's current competitors include, but are not limited to, companies such as broadcom, hisilicon, mediatek, nvidia, nxp semiconductors, qorvo, samsung, skyworks, texas instruments and unisoc (formally known as spreadtrum communications). qct also faces competition from products internally developed by our customers, including some of our largest customers, and from some early-stage companies. our competitors devote significant amounts of their financial, technical and other resources to develop and market competitive products and, in some cases, to develop and adopt competitive digital communication or signal processing technologies, and those efforts may materially and adversely affect us. although we have attained a significant position in the wireless industry, many of our current and potential competitors may have advantages over us that include, among others: motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to use our competitors' integrated circuit products, to utilize their own internally-developed integrated circuit products, or sell such products to others, or to utilize alternative technologies; lower cost structures or a willingness and ability to accept lower prices or lower margins for their products, particularly in china; foreign government support of other technologies, competitors or oems that sell devices that do not contain our integrated circuit products; better known brand names; ownership and control of manufacturing facilities and greater expertise in manufacturing processes; more extensive relationships with local distribution companies and oems in certain geographic regions (such as china); more experience in adjacent industry segments or applications beyond mobile (such as automotive and iot); and a more established presence in certain regions. qtl segment . qtl grants licenses or otherwise provides rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which, among other rights, includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture, sale and/or use of certain wireless products, including, without limitation, products implementing cdma2000, wcdma, cdma tdd, lte and/or ofdma-based 5g standards and their derivatives. we grant licenses or otherwise provide rights to use our cellular standard-essential patents (including 3g, 4g and 5g) for both single-mode and multimode devices on a worldwide basis, and our standard practice in china is to offer our cellular standard-essential chinese patents (for 3g, 4g and, now, 5g) for devices sold for use in china separately from our other patents. we also offer licenses to our cellular standard-essential patents together with other qualcomm patents that may be useful to such licensed products for licensees that desire to obtain the commercial benefits of receiving such broad patent rights from us. since 2018, an increasing number of new and existing licensees have elected to enter into worldwide license agreements covering only our cellular standard-essential patents. going forward, we continue to anticipate that a significant portion of qtl's licensing revenues will be derived from licensees that have entered into license agreements covering only qualcomm's cellular standard-essential patents. our licensees manufacture wireless products including mobile devices (including handsets), other consumer devices (e.g., tablets and laptops), plug-in end user data modem cards and embedded modules for incorporation into machine-to-machine devices and certain end user products (excluding handsets and tablets), as well as infrastructure equipment required to establish and operate a network and equipment to test networks and cellular devices. since our founding in 1985, we have focused heavily on technology development and innovation. these efforts have resulted in a leading intellectual property portfolio related to foundational, system level technologies for the wireless industry. we have an extensive portfolio of united states and foreign patents, and we continue to pursue patent applications around the world. our patents have broad coverage in many countries, including brazil, china, india, japan, south korea, taiwan, the united states and countries in europe. a substantial portion of our patents and patent applications relate to digital wireless communications technologies, including patents that are essential or may be important to the commercial implementation of cdma2000, wcdma (umts), td-scdma, td-cdma (time division cdma), ofdma-based lte and ofdma-based 5g products. our patent portfolio is the most widely and extensively licensed in the industry, with more than 300 licensees. additionally, we have a substantial patent portfolio related to key technologies used in communications and other devices and/or related services, some of which were developed in industry standards development bodies. these include certain video codecs, audio codecs, wi-fi, memory interfaces, wireless power, gps and positioning, broadcast and streaming protocols, and short-range communication functionalities, including nfc and bluetooth. our patents cover a wide range of technologies across the entire wireless system, including the device (handsets and other wireless devices), not just the portion of such patented technologies incorporated into chipsets, and the network. over the years, a number of companies have challenged our patent position, but companies in the mobile communications industry generally recognize that any company seeking to develop, manufacture and/or sell certain wireless products that use cdma-based and/or ofdma-based technologies will require a license or other rights to use our patents. we have licensed or otherwise provided rights to use our patents to hundreds of companies on industry-accepted terms. unlike some other companies in our industry that hold back certain key technologies, we offer companies substantially our entire patent portfolio for use in cellular devices and cell site infrastructure equipment. our strategy to make our patented technologies broadly available has been a catalyst for industry growth, helping to enable a wide range of companies offering a broad array of wireless products and features while increasing the capabilities of and/or driving down average and low-end selling prices for 3g and 3g/4g multimode handsets and other wireless devices. by licensing or otherwise providing rights to use our patents to a wide range of equipment manufacturers, encouraging innovative applications, supporting equipment manufacturers with integrated chipset and software products and focusing on improving the efficiency of the airlink for wireless operators, we have helped 3g and 3g/4g multimode evolve and grow and reduce device pricing. 5g network deployments and commercial 3g/4g/5g multimode device sales began in 2019 and continued throughout 2020. by licensing or otherwise providing rights to use our patents to a wide range of equipment manufacturers, 5g will continue to encourage innovative applications through enhanced mobile broadband services with lower latency and multi-gigabit user data speeds and bring more capacity and efficiency to wireless networks. 12 upon the initial deployment of ofdma-based networks, the products implementing such technologies generally have been multimode and implement ofdma-based and cdma-based technologies. the licenses granted under our existing license agreements generally cover multimode cdma/ofdma (3g/4g/5g) devices, and our licensees are obligated to pay royalties under their license agreements for such devices. standards bodies have been informed that we hold: patents that might be essential for all 3g standards that are based on cdma; patents and pending patent applications that are potentially essential for lte standards, including fdd and tdd versions; and patents and pending patent applications that are potentially essential for 5g technologies. we have committed to such standards bodies that we will offer to license our essential patents for these standards consistent with our commitments to those bodies. we have made similar commitments with respect to certain other technologies implemented in industry standards. qtl licensing revenues include royalties and, to a lesser extent, license fees. licensees pay quarterly royalties based on their sales of products incorporating or using our licensed intellectual property and may also pay a fixed license fee in one or more installments. sales-based royalties are generally based upon a percentage of the wholesale (i.e., licensee's) selling price of complete licensed products, net of certain permissible deductions (including transportation, insurance, packing costs and other items). we broadly provide per unit royalty caps that apply to certain categories of complete wireless devices, namely smartphones, tablets, laptops and smartwatches, and provide for a maximum royalty amount payable per device. revenues generated from royalties are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations. the vast majority of qtl revenues have been generated through our licensees' sales of cdma2000-based, wcdma-based and ofdma-based products (including 3g, 3g/4g and 3g/4g/5g multimode devices), such as smartphones and feature phones. we have invested and continue to invest in both the acquisition and development of ofdma technology and intellectual property and have generated the industry leading patent portfolio applicable to lte, lte advanced, lte advanced pro and 5g-nr. some of our inventions that serve as foundational technologies for 3g and 4g also serve as foundational technologies for 5g. we have invested and continue to invest in the development of 5g and continue to play a significant role in driving advancements of 5g. nevertheless, we face competition in the development of intellectual property for future generations of digital wireless communications technologies and services. separate and apart from licensing manufacturers of wireless devices and network equipment, we have entered into certain arrangements with competitors of our qct segment. a principal purpose of these arrangements is to provide our qct segment and the counterparties certain freedom of operation with respect to each party's integrated circuits business. in every case, these agreements expressly reserve the right for qtl to seek royalties from the customers of such integrated circuit suppliers with respect to such suppliers' customers' sales of cdma-, wcdma- and ofdma-based wireless devices into which such suppliers' integrated circuits are incorporated. our license agreements also may provide us with rights to use certain of our licensees' technology and intellectual property to manufacture, sell and/or use certain components (e.g., application-specific integrated circuits) and related software, cellular devices and/or infrastructure equipment. we are currently subject to certain governmental investigations and private legal proceedings challenging our patent licensing practices, including those described in this annual report under the heading notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies, which may require us to change our patent licensing practices as described more fully herein in part i, item 1a. risk factors under the heading changes in our patent licensing practices, whether due to governmental investigations or private legal proceedings challenging those practices, or otherwise, could adversely impact our business and results of operations. qsi segment. qsi makes strategic investments primarily through our qualcomm ventures arm that are focused on expanding or opening new opportunities for our technologies as well as supporting the design and introduction of new products and services (or enhancing existing products or services). many of these strategic investments are in early-stage companies in a variety of industries and applications, including, but not limited to, artificial intelligence, automotive, digital healthcare, enterprise, iot, mobile and networking. investments primarily include non-marketable equity securities and to a lesser extent, marketable equity securities (the majority of which resulted from initial public offerings of certain non-marketable equity investments) and convertible debt instruments. in addition, qsi segment results include revenues and related costs associated with development contracts with one of our investees (oneweb). as part of our strategic investment activities, we intend to pursue various exit strategies for each of our qsi investments in the foreseeable future. other businesses. nonreportable segments include our qualcomm government technologies or qgov business, our cloud ai inference processing initiative and other technology and service initiatives. qgov provides development and other services and sells related products to u.s. government agencies and their contractors. additional information regarding our operating segments is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 8. segment information. information regarding seasonality is provided in this annual report in part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the our business and operating segments section under the heading seasonality. 13 corporate structure we operate our businesses through our parent company, qualcomm incorporated, and multiple direct and indirect subsidiaries. we have developed our corporate structure in order to address various legal, regulatory, tax, contractual compliance, operational and other matters. substantially all of our products and services businesses, including qct, and substantially all of our engineering, research and development functions, are operated by qualcomm technologies, inc. (qti), a wholly-owned subsidiary of qualcomm incorporated, and qti's subsidiaries. qtl is operated by qualcomm incorporated, which owns the vast majority of our patent portfolio. neither qti nor any of its subsidiaries has any right, power or authority to grant any licenses or other rights under or to any patents owned by qualcomm incorporated. revenue concentrations and significant customers a small number of customers/licensees historically have accounted for a significant portion of our consolidated revenues. in fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, revenues from apple and its contract manufacturers, combined revenues from guangdong oppo mobile telecommunications corp., ltd. (oppo) and bbk communication technology co., ltd. (vivo), and their respective affiliates (including bbk), samsung and xiaomi each comprised 10% or more of consolidated revenues. revenues from huawei also comprised 10% or more of consolidated revenues in fiscal 2020, which were positively impacted by the settlement of our prior dispute. revenues in fiscal 2018 were negatively impacted by our prior dispute with apple and its contract manufacturers. additional information regarding the settlements is provided in this annual report in part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. research and development the wireless communications industry is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and, with the introduction of 5g, the expansion into new industry segments or applications such as automotive and iot, requiring a continuous effort to enhance existing products and technologies and to develop new products and technologies. we have significant engineering resources, including engineers with substantial expertise in cdma, ofdma and a broad range of other technologies. using these engineering resources, we expect to continue to invest in research and development in a variety of ways in an effort to extend the demand for our products, and to utilize that research and development in adjacent industry segments or applications beyond mobile (such as automotive and iot), including continuing the development of cdma, ofdma and other technologies (such as rffe), developing alternative technologies for certain specialized applications, participating in the formulation of new voice and data communication standards and technologies, and assisting in deploying digital voice and data communications networks around the world. our research and development team has a demonstrated track record of innovation in voice and data communication technologies and application processor technology, among others. we continue to invest significant resources towards advancements in ofdma-based technologies and products (including lte and 5g). we also engage in acquisitions and other transactions, such as joint ventures, to meet certain technology needs, to obtain development resources or open or expand opportunities for our technologies and to support the design and introduction of new products and services (or enhancing existing products and services) for voice and data communications and new industry segments or applications beyond mobile. we make investments to provide our integrated circuit customers with chipsets designed on leading-edge technology nodes that combine multiple technologies for use in consumer electronic devices (e.g., smartphones, tablets, laptops, ar/vr/xr devices) and other products (e.g., access points and routers, data cards and infrastructure equipment). in addition to 3g, 4g and 5g technologies, our chipsets support other wireless and wired connectivity technologies, including wi-fi, bluetooth, ethernet, location positioning and powerline communication. our integrated chipsets often include multiple technologies, including advanced multimode modems, application processors and graphics engines, as well as the tools to connect these diverse technologies. we continue to support android, windows and other client software environments in our chipsets. we develop on our own, and with our partners, innovations that are integrated into our product portfolio to further expand the opportunity for wireless communications and enhance the value of our products and services. these innovations are expected to enable our customers to improve the performance or value of their existing services, offer these services more affordably and introduce revenue-generating broadband data services ahead of their competition. we have research and development centers in various locations throughout the world that support our global development activities and ongoing efforts to develop and/or advance 4g, 5g and a broad range of other technologies. we continue to use our substantial engineering resources and expertise to develop new technologies, applications and services and make them available to licensees to help grow the communications industry and generate new or expanded licensing opportunities. sales and marketing sales and marketing activities of our operating segments are discussed under operating segments. other marketing activities include public relations, branding, digital marketing and social media, technical marketing, product marketing, participation in technical conferences and trade shows, development of use cases and white papers, competitive analyses and industry intelligence and other marketing programs, such as co-marketing with our customers or licensees. our corporate marketing department provides information on our company website and through other channels regarding our products, strategies and technology to investors, industry analysts, media, prospective job applicants, consumers and others. 14 competition competition faced by our operating segments is discussed under operating segments. competition in the wireless communications industry throughout the world continues to increase at a rapid pace as consumers, businesses and governments realize the potential of wireless communications products and services. we expect competition to increase as our current competitors expand their product offerings and introduce new technologies and services in the future and as additional companies compete with our products and/or services based on 3g, 4g, 5g and/or other technologies. although we intend to continue to make substantial investments in developing new products and technologies and improving existing products and technologies to strengthen and/or maintain our competitive position, our competitors may introduce alternative products, services or technologies that threaten our business. it is also possible that the prices we charge for our products and services may continue to decline as competition continues to intensify. see also the risk factor entitled our industry is subject to intense competition in an environment of rapid technological change. our success depends in part on our ability to adapt to such change and compete effectively; and such change and competition could result in decreased demand for our products and technologies or declining average selling prices for our products or those of our customers or licensees. environmental, social and governance (esg) and human capital for decades, our innovations have helped transform industries, enhance the lives of billions of people and address some of society's biggest challenges. with the world becoming increasingly connected, we have a tremendous opportunity to shape a better future. we believe in the power of technology. as such, our corporate responsibility vision is to be a facilitator of innovation for a sustainable world, connected wirelessly. esg our sustained investment in r&amp;d has helped revolutionize the way people connect; our approach to innovation is strategic and purposeful. we understand that the success of our business is fundamentally connected to the well-being of our world. we focus our efforts in four key areas where we believe we can have the biggest impact: responsible business. we integrate responsible and sustainable practices throughout our organization. our products are designed to not harm individuals, communities or the environment. we continually look for ways to conserve water, minimize energy consumption, lower emissions and reduce waste. because privacy and security are critical for success in the wireless industry, we constantly seek to promote data protection across the mobile ecosystem. our people. we strive to make qualcomm an inspiring and inclusive workplace to advance the development of leading-edge technologies. our success is only possible with the hard work and dedication of our employees. we celebrate diversity among our workforce and recognize that our varied backgrounds, experiences and ideas are critical to innovation. we foster inclusive practices in our operations around the world in order to reflect the communities in which we do business. purposeful innovation. we invent breakthrough technologies that enable life-changing products and experiences. we're building on our legacy of technology leadership with 5g, which we believe will serve as the technological foundation for connected cars, industrial iot, smart homes and cities, networking and mobility. we also work to broaden our impact by bringing advanced wireless technologies to underserved communities around the world. in doing so, we believe that we have enriched the lives of millions of people while creating new opportunities for our business. stem education. we seek to inspire the next generation of inventors and advance workforce development for stem-related careers (science, technology, engineering and mathematics). our initiatives are designed to promote and improve stem education at all levels and to expand opportunities for underrepresented students. we encourage you to review our march 2020 corporate responsibility report (located on our internet site at www.qualcomm.com) for more detailed information regarding our esg programs and initiatives. nothing on our website, including our corporate responsibility report or sections thereof, shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this annual report. human capital in order to continue to produce the innovative, breakthrough technologies for which we are known, it is crucial that we continue to attract and retain top talent. to facilitate talent attraction and retention, we strive to make qualcomm a diverse, inclusive and safe workplace, with opportunities for our employees to grow and develop in their careers, supported by strong compensation, benefits and health and wellness programs, and by programs that build connections between our employees and their communities. at september 27, 2020, we had approximately 41,000 full-time, part-time and temporary employees, the overwhelming majority of which were full-time employees. during fiscal 2020, the number of employees increased by approximately 4,000, primarily due to increases in engineering resources. our employees are represented by more than 100 self-identified nationalities working in over 150 locations in 32 different countries around the world. collectively, we speak more than 60 different languages. our global workforce is highly educated, with the substantial majority of our employees working in engineering or technical roles (many of whom help develop foundational technologies for both our qct semiconductor business and our qtl licensing business). during fiscal 2020, our voluntary turnover rate was less than 5%, below the 15 technology industry benchmark, which is comprised of certain of our key competitors (aon, 2020 salary increase and turnover study second edition, september 2020). diversity and inclusion. we believe that a diverse workforce is critical to our success, and we continue to focus on the hiring, retention and advancement of women and underrepresented populations. our recent efforts have been focused in three areas: inspiring innovation through an inclusive and diverse culture; expanding our efforts to recruit and hire world-class diverse talent; and identifying strategic partners to accelerate our inclusion and diversity programs. we have a number of employee networks that enhance our inclusive and diverse culture, including those supporting women, africans and african americans, latinos, veterans, the lgbtq+ community and employees with disabilities. we continue to recruit technical talent in diverse communities, including by engaging as a high-level sponsor of professional conferences, such as the grace hopper celebration, the society of hispanic professional engineers national convention and the national society of black engineers national convention. we also continue to recruit from a variety of colleges including hispanic-serving institutions, historically black colleges and universities and women's colleges. our continued engagement with organizations that work with diverse communities has been vital to our efforts to increase women and minority representation in our workforce. for example, we partner with anitab.org to benchmark our progress and identify promising practices for recruiting, retaining and advancing women technologists and support its research initiatives related to attracting and retaining women and underrepresented minority students in computing majors. we, alongside other top technology companies, helped form the reboot representation tech coalition, which aims to double the number of black, latinx and native american women receiving computing degrees by 2025. in collaboration with the national foundation for autism research, we started an internship program to welcome those with autism into our company. through our collaboration with disability:in's inclusion works program, we have increased our ability to address the needs of individuals with disabilities. in an effort to provide additional transparency into our efforts to increase underrepresented populations in our workforce, we intend to disclose our 2020 consolidated eeo-1 report after our submission of the report to the u.s. equal employment opportunity commission. from a governance perspective, our hr and compensation committee, through its charter, provides oversight of our policies, programs and initiatives focusing on workforce diversity and inclusion. health, safety and wellness. the success of our business is fundamentally connected to the well-being of our people. accordingly, we are committed to the health, safety and wellness of our employees. we provide our employees and their families with access to a variety of innovative, flexible and convenient health and wellness programs, including benefits that provide protection and security so they can have peace of mind concerning events that may require time away from work or that impact their financial well-being; that support their physical and mental health by providing tools and resources to help them improve or maintain their health status and encourage engagement in healthy behaviors; and that offer choice where possible so they can customize their benefits to meet their needs and the needs of their families. in response to the covid-19 pandemic, we implemented significant changes that we determined were in the best interest of our employees, as well as the communities in which we operate, and which comply with government regulations. this includes having the vast majority of our employees work from home, while implementing additional safety measures for employees continuing critical on-site work. compensation and benefits. we provide robust compensation and benefits programs to help meet the needs of our employees. in addition to salaries, these programs (which vary by country/region) include annual bonuses, stock awards, an employee stock purchase plan, a 401(k) plan, healthcare and insurance benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off, family leave, family care resources, flexible work schedules, adoption and surrogacy assistance, employee assistance programs, tuition assistance and on-site services, such as health centers and fitness centers, among many others. in addition to our broad-based equity award programs, we have used targeted equity-based grants with vesting conditions to facilitate retention of personnel, particularly those with critical engineering skills and experience. talent development. we invest significant resources to develop the talent needed to remain a world-leading wireless innovator. we deliver numerous training opportunities, provide rotational assignment opportunities, have expanded our focus on continuous learning and development, and implemented industry-leading methodologies to manage performance, provide feedback and develop talent. our talent development programs provide employees with the resources they need to help achieve their career goals, build management skills and lead their organizations. we provide a series of employee workshops around the globe that support professional growth and development. additionally, our manager and employee forum programs provide an ongoing opportunity for employees to practice and apply learning around conversations aligned with our annual review process. we also have an employee development website that provides quick access to learning resources that are personalized to the individual's development needs. building connections with each other and our communities. we believe that building connections between our employees, their families and our communities creates a more meaningful, fulfilling and enjoyable workplace. through our engagement programs, our employees can pursue their interests and hobbies, connect to volunteering and giving opportunities and enjoy unique recreational experiences with family members. leveraging our partnerships with various local 16 arts and culture organizations, we have created numerous unique experiences for employees and their families around the world. since our employees are passionate about many causes, our corporate giving and volunteering programs support and encourage employees by engaging with those causes. in our offices around the world, our employee-led giving committees select local organizations to support, often in the form of grants that are primarily funded by the qualcomm foundation (which was established in 2011 to support charitable giving and volunteerism). we also frequently collaborate with these organizations on volunteer activities for our employees. additionally, during fiscal 2020, thousands of our employees around the world utilized our charitable match program, benefiting more than 1,500 charitable organizations. we encourage you to review the our people section of our march 2020 corporate responsibility report (located on our website) for more detailed information regarding our human capital programs and initiatives. nothing on our website, including our corporate responsibility report or sections thereof, shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this annual report. available information our internet address is www.qualcomm.com. there we make available, free of charge, our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements and any amendments to those reports (among others), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). we also make available on our internet site public financial information for which a report is not required to be filed with or furnished to the sec. our sec reports and other financial information can be accessed through the investor relations section of our internet site. the information found on our internet site is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the sec. information about our executive officers our executive officers (and their ages at september 27, 2020) are as follows: steve mollenkopf, age 51, has served as chief executive officer since march 2014 and as a director since december 2013. he served as chief executive officer-elect and president from december 2013 to march 2014 and as president and chief operating officer from november 2011 to december 2013. in addition, he served as executive vice president and group president from september 2010 to november 2011 and as executive vice president and president, qct from august 2008 to september 2010. mr. mollenkopf joined qualcomm in 1994 as an engineer and throughout his tenure at qualcomm has held several other technical and leadership roles. mr. mollenkopf has been a member of the board of directors of boeing company since april 2020. mr. mollenkopf served as a member of the board of directors of general electric company from november 2016 to april 2018. mr. mollenkopf holds a b.s. in electrical engineering from virginia tech and an m.s. in electrical engineering from the university of michigan. heather ace, age 50, has served as executive vice president, human resources since march 2020. prior to joining qualcomm, ms. ace was senior vice president, human resources at dexcom, inc., a provider of continuous glucose monitoring, from july 2016 to march 2020. prior to dexcom, she was executive vice president, human resources at orexigen therapeutics, inc., a developer of treatments for obesity, from january 2016 to july 2016. ms. ace was integration leader for royal philips, leading the cross-functional integration of philips healthcare's acquisition of volcano corporation, from january 2015 to january 2016. she was executive vice president, human resources at volcano corporation from may 2012 to january 2015. prior to may 2012, ms. ace served in various senior executive roles in human resources, post-acquisition/merger integration and employment law at life technologies corporation. she began her career at gray cary ware &amp; freidenrich (now dla piper) as a litigation and transactional employment attorney, specializing in mergers and acquisitions. ms. ace holds a b.a. in law &amp; society from the university of california, santa barbara and a j.d. from santa clara school of law. cristiano r. amon, age 50, has served as president, qualcomm incorporated since january 2018. he served as executive vice president, qualcomm technologies, inc., a subsidiary of qualcomm incorporated (qti), and president, qct, from november 2015 to january 2018. he served as executive vice president, qti and co-president, qct from october 2012 to november 2015, senior vice president, qualcomm incorporated and co-president, qct from june 2012 to october 2012 and as senior vice president, qct product management from october 2007 to june 2012, with responsibility for qti's product roadmap, including the qualcomm snapdragon platforms. mr. amon joined qualcomm in 1995 as an engineer and throughout his tenure at qualcomm has held several other technical and leadership positions. mr. amon holds a b.s. in electrical engineering and an honorary doctorate from unicamp, the state university of campinas, brazil. brian t. modoff, age 61, has served as executive vice president, strategy and mergers &amp; acquisitions, which includes responsibility for qualcomm ventures, since october 2015. prior to joining qualcomm, mr. modoff was a managing director in equity research at deutsche bank securities inc., a provider of financial services, from march 1999 to october 2015. prior to joining deutsche bank, mr. modoff was a research analyst at several financial institutions from november 1993 to march 1999. mr. modoff previously worked in defense electronics, including at rockwell international in manufacturing management, and for the u.s. navy as a communications technician. mr. modoff holds a b.a. in economics from california state university, fullerton and a master of international management from the thunderbird school of global management. 17 akash palkhiwala, age 45, has served as executive vice president and chief financial officer since november 2019. he served as senior vice president and interim chief financial officer from august 2019 to november 2019. he served as senior vice president, qct finance from december 2015 to august 2019 and senior vice president and treasurer, qualcomm incorporated from october 2014 to december 2015. mr. palkhiwala served as vice president, qct finance from october 2012 to october 2014 and vice president, qct finance from october 2009 to october 2012. he served in various other finance roles since joining qualcomm in march 2001. prior to joining qualcomm, mr. palkhiwala was an analyst at keybank. mr. palkhiwala has an undergraduate degree in mechanical engineering from l.d. college of engineering in india and an m.b.a from the university of maryland. alexander h. rogers, age 63, has served as executive vice president and president, qtl since october 2016. he served as senior vice president and president, qtl from september 2016 to october 2016, senior vice president, deputy general counsel and general manager, qtl from march 2016 to september 2016, senior vice president and deputy general counsel from october 2015 to march 2016 and senior vice president and legal counsel from april 2007 to october 2015. prior to transitioning to qtl, mr. rogers led qualcomm's litigation group. mr. rogers joined qualcomm in january 2001 as an attorney. prior to joining qualcomm, mr. rogers was a partner at the law firm of gray, cary, ware &amp; freidenrich (now dla piper), specializing in intellectual property and commercial litigation. mr. rogers holds a b.a. and an m.a. in english literature from georgetown university and a j.d. from georgetown university law center. donald j. rosenberg, age 69, has served as executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since october 2007. he served as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary of apple inc. from november 2006 to october 2007. from may 1975 to november 2006, mr. rosenberg held numerous positions at ibm corporation, including senior vice president and general counsel. mr. rosenberg has served as a member of the board of directors of nuvasive, inc. since february 2016. mr. rosenberg holds a b.s. in mathematics from the state university of new york at stony brook and a j.d. from st. john's university school of law. james h. thompson, age 56, has served as executive vice president, engineering, qti and chief technology officer since march 2017. he served as executive vice president, engineering, qti from october 2012 to march 2017 and as senior vice president, engineering, qualcomm incorporated from july 1998 to october 2012. dr. thompson joined qualcomm in 1992 as a senior engineer and throughout his tenure at qualcomm held several other technical and leadership positions. dr. thompson holds a b.s., an m.s. and a ph.d. in electrical engineering from the university of wisconsin. item 1a. risk factors you should consider each of the following factors in evaluating our business and our prospects. however, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and require significant management time and attention. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. in addition to the risks and uncertainties set forth in the risk factor below entitled the recent coronavirus (covid-19) pandemic has had an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, and we expect its impact will continue, at least in the near term, many of the risks and uncertainties set forth in the other risk factors below are exacerbated by the covid-19 pandemic, government and business responses thereto and any further resulting decline in the global business and economic environment, and may be impacted by the extent and speed of the global economic recovery. you should also consider the other information set forth in this annual report in evaluating our business and our prospects, including but not limited to our financial statements and the related notes, and part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. references to and, or and and/or should be read to include the others, as appropriate. risks related to the coronavirus (covid-19) pandemic the recent coronavirus (covid-19) pandemic has had an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, and we expect its impact will continue, at least in the near term. the rapid, global spread of covid-19 and the fear it has created has resulted in significant economic uncertainty, significant declines in business and consumer confidence and global demand in the wireless industry (among others), a global economic slowdown, and has led to a global recession. specifically, the decline in demand for smartphones and other consumer devices sold by our customers or licensees has resulted in decreased demand for our integrated circuit products (which are incorporated into such devices) and a decrease in the royalties we earn on the licensing of our intellectual property (which is dependent upon the number of such devices sold that utilize our intellectual property). we expect that demand for our products and demand for the products of our customers and licensees will continue to be negatively impacted in the near term. further, while to date we have not seen a significant impact on our manufacturing facilities or our supply chain, the ability of our suppliers to deliver on their commitments to us, or our ability to ship our products to our customers, may be negatively impacted by the pandemic and/or government responses thereto, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place and social distancing orders, declarations of states of emergency and shutdowns. although the spread of covid-19 has caused us to modify our workforce practices, such as having the vast majority of our employees working from home, we have not experienced a significant negative impact to our business or results of 18 operations. however, we could be negatively affected in the future if, among others, a significant number of our employees, or employees who perform critical functions, become ill and/or are quarantined as the result of exposure to covid-19, or if government policies restrict the ability of those employees to perform their critical functions. the covid-19 pandemic could also impact our business, results of operations and financial condition through delayed, reduced or cancelled customer orders; the inability of our customers or licensees to purchase or pay for our products or technologies; the insolvency of key suppliers, customers or licensees; delays in reporting or payments from our customers or licensees; or failures by other counterparties. additionally, state or federal governments may in the future increase corporate tax rates, increase employer payroll tax obligations and/or otherwise change tax laws to pay for stimulus and other actions that may be taken as a result of covid-19. the degree to which the covid-19 pandemic impacts our future business, results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are uncertain, including but not limited to the duration, spread and severity of the pandemic, government responses and other actions to mitigate the spread of and to treat covid-19, and when and to what extent normal business, economic and social activity and conditions resume. we are similarly unable to predict the extent to which the pandemic impacts our customers, licensees, suppliers and other partners and their financial conditions, but adverse effects on these parties could also adversely affect us. finally, the covid-19 pandemic makes it challenging for management to estimate the future performance of our business. risks related to industry dynamics and competition our revenues depend on our customers' and licensees' sales of products and services based on cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies, including 5g, and customer demand for our products based on these technologies. we develop, patent and commercialize technology and products based on cdma, ofdma and other communications technologies, which are primarily wireless. we depend on our customers and licensees to develop devices and services based on these technologies with value-added features to drive consumer demand for new 3g/4g and 3g/4g/5g multimode devices, as well as 3g, 4g and 5g single-mode devices, and to establish the selling prices for such devices. further, the timing of our shipment of our products is dependent on the timing of our customers' and licensees' deployments of new devices and services based on these technologies. increasingly, we also depend on operators of wireless networks, our customers and licensees and other third parties to incorporate these technologies into new device types and into industries and applications beyond mobile, such as automotive and iot, among others. we have historically been successful during wireless technology transitions, including 3g, 4g and now 5g. commercial deployments of 5g networks and devices have begun and will continue. however, the timing and scale of such deployments, in certain regions, have been and may in the future be delayed due to the covid-19 pandemic. we believe it is critical that we remain a leader in 5g technology development, standardization, intellectual property creation and technology licensing, and that we develop, commercialize and be a leading supplier of 5g integrated circuit products, in order to sustain and grow our business long-term. our revenues and growth in revenues could be negatively impacted, our business may be harmed and our substantial investments in these technologies may not provide us an adequate return, if our customers' and licensees' revenues and sales of products, particularly premium-tier products, and services using these technologies, and average selling prices of such products, decline due to, for example, the maturity of smartphone penetration in developed regions and china; our intellectual property and technical leadership included in the continued 5g standardization effort is less than in 3g and 4g standards; we are unable to drive the adoption of our products into networks and devices, including devices beyond mobile; or consumers' rates of replacement of smartphones and other computing devices decline. our industry is subject to intense competition in an environment of rapid technological change. our success depends in part on our ability to adapt to such change and compete effectively; and such change and competition could result in decreased demand for our products and technologies or declining average selling prices for our products or those of our customers or licensees. our products and technologies face significant competition. we expect competition to increase as our current competitors expand their product offerings, improve their products or reduce the prices of their products as part of a strategy to maintain existing business and customers or attract new business and customers, as new opportunities develop, and as new competitors enter the industry. competition in wireless communications is affected by various factors that include, among others: oem concentrations; vertical integration; competition in certain geographic regions; government intervention or support of national industries or competitors; the ability to maintain product differentiation as the result of evolving industry standards and speed of technological change (including the transition to smaller geometry process technologies and the demand for always on, always connected capabilities); and value-added features that drive selling prices and consumer demand for new 3g/4g and 3g/4g/5g multimode devices, as well as 3g and 4g single-mode devices. we anticipate that additional competitors will introduce products as a result of growth opportunities in wireless communications, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, and technological and public policy changes. additionally, the semiconductor industry has experienced and may continue to experience consolidation, which could result in significant changes to the competitive landscape. for example, if any key supplier of technologies and intellectual property to the semiconductor industry was sold to one of our competitors, it could negatively affect our ability to 19 procure or license such technologies and intellectual property in the future, which could have wide-ranging impacts on our business and operations. we expect that our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to: differentiate our integrated circuit products with innovative technologies across multiple products and features (e.g., modem, radio frequency front-end (rffe), including mmwave, graphics and other processors, camera and connectivity) and with smaller geometry process technologies that drive both performance and lower power consumption; develop and offer integrated circuit products at competitive cost and price points to effectively cover all geographic regions and all device tiers; continue to be a leader in mobile, and drive the adoption of our technologies and integrated circuit products, including rffe, into the most popular device models and across a broad spectrum of devices in mobile, such as smartphones, tablets, laptops and other mobile computing devices; increase or accelerate adoption of our technologies and products in industry segments or applications outside of mobile, including automotive and iot; maintain or accelerate demand for our integrated circuit products at the premium device tier, while also driving the adoption of our products into high, mid- and low-tier devices across all regions; remain a leader in 5g (and 4g) technology development, standardization, intellectual property creation and licensing, and develop, commercialize and remain a leading supplier of 5g (and 4g) integrated circuit products, including rffe products; create standalone value and contribute to the success of our existing businesses through acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions, and by developing customer, licensee, vendor, distributor and other channel relationships in new industry segments or applications and with disruptive technologies and products; identify potential acquisition targets that will grow or sustain our business or address strategic needs, reach agreement on terms acceptable to us, close the transactions and effectively integrate these new businesses, products and technologies; provide leading products and technologies to oems, high level operating systems (hlos) providers, operators, cloud providers and other industry participants as competitors, new industry entrants and other factors continue to affect the industry landscape; be a preferred partner and sustain preferred relationships providing integrated circuit products that support multiple operating system and infrastructure platforms to industry participants that effectively commercialize new devices using these platforms; and continue to develop brand recognition to effectively compete against better known companies in computing and other consumer driven segments and to deepen our presence in significant emerging regions and china. we compete with many different semiconductor companies, ranging from multinational companies with integrated research and development, manufacturing, sales and marketing organizations across a broad spectrum of product lines, to companies that are focused on a single application, industry segment or standard product, including those that produce products for mobile, automotive and iot, among others. most of these competitors compete with us with respect to some, but not all, of our businesses. companies that design integrated circuits based on cdma, ofdma, wi-fi or their derivatives are generally competitors or potential competitors. examples (some of which are strategic partners of ours in other areas) include broadcom, hisilicon, mediatek, nvidia, nxp semiconductors, qorvo, samsung, skyworks, texas instruments and unisoc (formally known as spreadtrum communications). some of these current and potential competitors may have advantages over us that include, among others: motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to use our competitors' integrated circuit products, to utilize their own internally-developed integrated circuit products, or sell such products to others, or to utilize alternative technologies; lower cost structures or a willingness and ability to accept lower prices or lower margins for their products, particularly in china; foreign government support of other technologies, competitors or oems that sell devices that do not contain our integrated circuit products; better known brand names; ownership and control of manufacturing facilities and greater expertise in manufacturing processes; more extensive relationships with local distribution companies and oems in certain geographic regions (such as china); more experience in adjacent industry segments or applications beyond mobile (such as automotive and iot); and a more established presence in certain regions. in addition, certain of our largest integrated circuit customers have in the past utilized, currently utilize and may in the future utilize our competitors' integrated circuit products in some (or all) of their devices, rather than our products. further, certain of those customers have developed, are developing or may develop their own integrated circuit products (effectively making them competitors), which they have in the past utilized, currently utilize and may in the future utilize in some (or all) of their devices, rather than our products. see also the risk factor entitled our business, particularly our semiconductor business, may suffer as a result of our customers vertically integrating (i.e., developing their own integrated circuit products) . further, political actions, including trade and/or national security protection policies, or other actions by governments, particularly the u.s. and chinese governments, have in the past, currently are and could in the future limit or 20 prevent us from transacting business with certain of our customers or suppliers, limit, prevent or discourage certain of our customers or suppliers from transacting business with us, or make it more expensive to do so. this could advantage our competitors by enabling them with increased sales, economies of scale, operating income and/or cash flows and/or enable critical technology transfer, allowing them to increase their investments in technology development, research and development and commercialization of products. see also the risk factor entitled a significant portion of our business is concentrated in china, and the risks of such concentration are exacerbated by u.s./china trade and national security tensions. further, certain of our competitors develop and sell multiple components (including integrated circuit products) for use in devices and sell those components together to oems. our competitors' sales of multiple components put us (and our discrete integrated circuit products) at a competitive disadvantage. certain of our competitors also develop and sell infrastructure equipment for wireless networks and can optimize their integrated circuit products to perform on such networks to a degree that we are not able to, which again puts us at a competitive disadvantage. competition in any or all product tiers may result in the loss of business or customers, which would negatively impact our business, revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. such competition may also reduce average selling prices for our chipset products or the products of our customers and licensees. certain of these dynamics are particularly pronounced in emerging regions and china where competitors may have lower cost structures or may have a willingness and ability to accept lower prices or lower margins on their products. reductions in the average selling prices of our chipset products, without a corresponding increase in volumes, would negatively impact our revenues, and without corresponding decreases in average unit costs, would negatively impact our margins. in addition, reductions in the average selling prices of our licensees' products, unless offset by an increase in volumes, would generally decrease total royalties payable to us, negatively impacting our licensing revenues. risks related to our operating businesses we derive a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of customers and licensees, and particularly from their sale of premium tier devices. if revenues derived from these customers or licensees decrease or the timing of such revenues fluctuates, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of customers, and particularly from their sale of premium tier devices, and we expect this trend to continue in the foreseeable future. our industry is experiencing and may continue to experience concentration of device share among a few companies, particularly at the premium tier, contributing to this trend. chinese oems continue to grow their device share in china and are increasing their device share in regions outside of china, and we derive a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of these oems as well. in addition, a number of our largest integrated circuit customers have developed, are developing or may develop their own integrated circuit products, or may choose our competitors' integrated circuit products, which they have in the past utilized, currently utilize and may in the future utilize in some (or all) of their devices, rather than our products, which could significantly reduce the revenues we derive from these customers. see also the risk factor entitled our business, particularly our semiconductor business, may suffer as a result of our customers vertically integrating (i.e., developing their own integrated circuit products) . further, political actions, including trade and/or national security protection policies, or other actions by governments, particularly the u.s. and chinese governments, have in the past and could in the future limit or prevent us from transacting business with some of our largest customers, limit, prevent or discourage those customers from transacting business with us, or make it more expensive to do so, any of which could also significantly reduce the revenues we derive from these customers. see also the risk factor entitled a significant portion of our business is concentrated in china, and the risks of such concentration are exacerbated by u.s./china trade and national security tensions . in addition, we spend a significant amount of engineering and development time, funds and resources in understanding our key customers' feedback and/or specifications and attempt to incorporate such input into our product launches and technologies. these efforts may not require or result in purchase commitments from such customers or we may have lower purchases from such customers than expected, and consequently, we may not achieve the anticipated revenues from these efforts, or these efforts may result in non-recoverable costs. the loss of any one of our significant customers, a reduction in the purchases of our products by such customers or the cancelation of significant purchases by any of these customers, whether due to the use of their own integrated circuit products or our competitors' integrated circuit products, government restrictions, the covid-19 pandemic or otherwise, would reduce our revenues and could harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected results of operations, and a delay of significant purchases, even if only temporary, would reduce our revenues in the period of the delay. any such reduction in revenues would also impact our cash resources available for other purposes, such as research and development. further, the concentration of device share among a few companies, and the corresponding purchasing power of these companies, may result in lower prices for our products which, if not accompanied by a sufficient increase in the volume of purchases of our products, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and margins. in addition, the timing and size of purchases by our significant customers may be impacted by the timing of such customers' new or next generation product introductions, over which we have no control, and the timing and success of such introductions may cause our revenues and results of operations to fluctuate. 21 apple purchases our mdm (or thin modem) products, which do not include our integrated application processor technology, and which have lower revenue and margin contributions than our combined modem and application processor products. further, to the extent apple takes device share from our customers who purchase our integrated modem and application processor products, our revenues and margins may be negatively impacted. our industry has also experienced, and we expect it will continue to experience, slowing growth in the premium-tier device segment due to, among other factors, lengthening replacement cycles in developed regions, where premium-tier smartphones are common; increasing consumer demand in emerging regions where premium-tier smartphones are less common and replacement cycles are on average longer than in developed regions and are continuing to lengthen; and a maturing premium-tier smartphone industry in which demand is increasingly driven by new product launches and innovation cycles. a reduction in sales of premium-tier devices, a reduction in sales of our premium-tier integrated circuit products (which have a higher revenue and margin contribution than our lower-tier integrated circuit products), or a shift in share away from oems that utilize our premium-tier products, would reduce our revenues and margins and may harm our ability to achieve or sustain expected financial results. any such reduction in revenues would also impact our cash resources available for other purposes, such as research and development. although we have more than 300 licensees, we derive a significant portion of our licensing revenues from a limited number of licensees, which includes a small number of chinese oems. in the event that one or more of our significant licensees fail to meet their reporting and payment obligations, or we are unable to renew or modify one or more of their license agreements under similar terms as their existing agreements, our revenues, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely impacted. moreover, the future growth and success of our core licensing business will depend in part on the ability of our licensees to develop, introduce and deliver high-volume products that achieve and sustain customer acceptance. we do not have control over the product development, sales efforts or pricing of products by our licensees, and our licensees might not be successful. reductions in sales of our licensees' products, or reductions in the average selling prices of wireless devices sold by our licensees without a sufficient increase in the volumes of such devices sold, would generally have an adverse effect on our licensing revenues. such adverse impact may be mitigated by our per unit royalty caps that apply to certain categories of our licensees' complete wireless devices, namely smartphones, tablets, laptops and smartwatches. our business, particularly our semiconductor business, may suffer as a result of our customers vertically integrating (i.e., developing their own integrated circuit products). certain of our largest integrated circuit customers (for example, samsung) develop their own integrated circuit products, which they have in the past utilized, and currently utilize, in certain of their devices and may in the future utilize in some (or all) of their devices, rather than our products (and they have and may continue to sell their integrated circuit products to third parties, discretely or together with certain of their other products, in competition with us). apple has utilized modem products of one of our competitors in some of its devices rather than our products, and solely utilized one of our competitors' products in several of its recent device launches. in april 2019, we entered into a new multi-year chipset supply agreement with apple and began shipping modems under this agreement in the third quarter of fiscal 2020. in december 2019, apple acquired intel's modem assets and is developing its own modem products using these assets. accordingly, apple is expected to use its own modem products, rather than our products, in some (or all) of its future devices. similarly, we derive a significant portion of our revenues from chinese oems. certain of our customers in china have developed, and others may in the future develop, their own integrated circuit products and use such integrated circuit products in their devices rather than our integrated circuit products, including due to pressure from or policies of the chinese government (whose made in china 2025 campaign targets 70% semiconductor self-sufficiency by 2025), concerns over losing access to our integrated circuit products as a result of actual, threatened or potential u.s. or chinese government actions or policies, including trade protection or national security policies, or other reasons. if some or all of our largest customers and/or the largest smartphone oems utilize their own integrated circuit/modem products in some (or all) of their devices rather than our products, our business, revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be materially adversely impacted. see also the risk factor entitled we derive a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of customers and licensees, and particularly from their sale of premium tier devices. if revenues derived from these customers or licensees decrease or the timing of such revenues fluctuates, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected . a significant portion of our business is concentrated in china, and the risks of such concentration are exacerbated by u.s./china trade and national security tensions. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from chinese oems, and from non-chinese oems that utilize our integrated circuit products in their devices and sell those devices into china, which has the largest number of smartphone users in the world. we also source certain critical integrated circuit products from suppliers in china. due to various factors, including pressure, encouragement or incentives from, or policies of, the chinese government (including its made in china 2025 campaign), concerns over losing access to our integrated circuit products as a result of actual, threatened or potential u.s. or chinese government actions or policies, including trade protection or national security 22 policies, or other reasons, some of our chinese integrated circuit customers have developed, and others may in the future develop, their own integrated circuit products and use such integrated circuit products in their devices, or use our competitors' integrated circuit products in their devices, rather than our products. political actions, including trade protection and national security policies of the u.s. and chinese governments, such as tariffs, bans or placing companies on restricted entity lists, have in the past, currently are and could in the future limit or prevent us from transacting business with certain of our chinese customers or suppliers, limit, prevent or discourage certain of our chinese customers or suppliers from transacting business with us, or make it more expensive to do so. given our revenue concentration in china, if, due to actual, threatened or potential u.s. or chinese government actions or policies, we were further limited in, or prohibited from, obtaining critical integrated circuit products from suppliers in china or selling our integrated circuit products to chinese oems; if our non-chinese oem customers were limited in, or prohibited from, selling devices into china that incorporate our integrated circuit products; if chinese oems develop and use their own integrated circuit products or use our competitors' integrated circuit products in some (or all) of their devices rather than our integrated circuit products; if chinese tariffs on our integrated circuit products or on devices which incorporate our integrated circuit products made purchasing such products or devices more expensive to chinese oems or chinese consumers; or if our chinese licensees delay or cease making payments of license fees they owe us, our business, revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be materially harmed. finally, government policies in china that regulate the amount and timing of funds that may flow out of the country have impacted and may continue to impact the timing of our receipt of, and/or ability to receive, payments from our customers and licensees in china, which may negatively impact our cash flows. risks specific to our licensing business efforts by some oems to avoid paying fair and reasonable royalties for the use of our intellectual property may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources and may result in legal decisions or actions by governments, courts, regulators or agencies, standards development organizations (sdos) or other industry organizations that harm our business. from time to time, companies initiate various strategies to attempt to negotiate, renegotiate, reduce and/or eliminate their need to pay royalties to us for the use of our intellectual property. these strategies have included: (i) litigation, often alleging infringement of patents held by such companies, patent misuse, patent exhaustion, patent invalidity or unenforceability of our patents or licenses, alleging that we do not license our patents on fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory (frand) terms, or alleging some form of unfair competition or competition law violation; (ii) taking positions contrary to our understanding (and/or the plain language) of their contracts with us; (iii) appeals to governmental authorities; (iv) collective action, including working with wireless operators, standards bodies, other like-minded companies and organizations, on both formal and informal bases, to adopt intellectual property policies and practices that could have the effect of limiting returns on intellectual property innovations; (v) lobbying governmental regulators and elected officials for the purpose of seeking the reduction of royalty rates or the base on which royalties are calculated, seeking to impose some form of compulsory licensing or weakening a patent holder's ability to enforce its rights or obtain a fair return for such rights; and (vi) attempts by licensees to shift their royalty obligation to their suppliers in order to lower the wholesale (i.e., licensee's) selling price on which the royalty is calculated. in addition, certain licensees have disputed, underreported, underpaid, not reported or not paid royalties owed to us under their license agreements or reported to us in a manner that is not in compliance with their contractual obligations, and certain companies have yet to enter into or have delayed entering into or renewing license agreements with us for their use of our intellectual property, and they or others may engage in such behavior in the future. the fact that one or more licensees dispute, underreport, underpay, do not report or do not pay royalties owed to us may encourage other licensees to take similar actions or not renew their existing license agreements, and may encourage other licensees or unlicensed companies to delay entering into, or to not enter into, new license agreements. further, to the extent such licensees and companies increase their device share, the negative impact of their underreporting, underpayment, non-payment or non-reporting on our business, revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition will be exacerbated. we have been in the past and are currently subject to various litigation and governmental investigations and proceedings. certain of these matters are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. we may become subject to other litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings in the future. additionally, certain of our direct and indirect customers and licensees have pursued, and others may in the future pursue, litigation or arbitration against us related to our business. unfavorable resolutions of one or more of these matters have had and could in the future have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. see also the risk factors below entitled our business may suffer as a result of adverse rulings in government investigations or proceedings and changes in our patent licensing practices, whether due to governmental investigations or private legal proceedings challenging those practices, or otherwise, could adversely impact our business and results of operations. in addition, in connection with our participation in sdos, we, like other patent owners, generally have made contractual commitments to such organizations to license those of our patents that would necessarily be infringed by standard-compliant products as set forth in those commitments. some manufacturers and users of standard-compliant products advance 23 interpretations of these commitments that are adverse to our licensing business, including interpretations that would limit the amount of royalties that we could collect on the licensing of our standard-essential patent portfolio. further, some companies or entities have proposed significant changes to existing intellectual property policies for implementation by sdos and other industry organizations with the goal of significantly devaluing standard-essential patents. for example, some have put forth proposals which would require a maximum aggregate intellectual property royalty rate for the use of all standard-essential patents owned by all of the member companies to be applied to the selling price of any product implementing the relevant standard. they have further proposed that such maximum aggregate royalty rate be apportioned to each member company with standard-essential patents based upon the number of standard-essential patents held by such company. others have proposed that injunctions should not be an available remedy for infringement of standard-essential patents and have made proposals that could severely limit damage awards and other remedies by courts for patent infringement (e.g., by severely limiting the base upon which the royalty rate may be applied). a number of these strategies are purportedly based on interpretations of the policies of certain sdos concerning the licensing of patents that are or may be essential to industry standards and on our (or other companies') alleged failure to abide by these policies. some sdos, courts and governmental agencies have adopted, and may in the future adopt, some or all of these interpretations or proposals in a manner adverse to our interests, including in litigation to which we may not be a party. we expect that such proposals, interpretations and strategies will continue in the future, and if successful, our business model would be harmed, either by limiting or eliminating our ability to collect royalties (or by reducing the royalties we can collect) on all or a portion of our standard-essential patent portfolio, limiting our return on investment with respect to new technologies, limiting our ability to seek injunctions against infringers of our standard-essential patents, constraining our ability to make licensing commitments when submitting our technologies for inclusion in future standards (which could make our technologies less likely to be included in such standards) or forcing us to work outside of sdos or other industry groups to promote our new technologies, and our revenues, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted. in addition, the legal and other costs associated with asserting or defending our positions have been and continue to be significant. we expect that such challenges, regardless of their merits, will continue into the foreseeable future and will require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources. changes in our patent licensing practices, whether due to governmental investigations or private legal proceedings challenging those practices, or otherwise, could adversely impact our business and results of operations. as described in the risk factor our business may suffer as a result of adverse rulings in government investigations or proceedings below, we have been in the past and are currently subject to various governmental investigations and proceedings, as well as private legal proceedings, challenging our patent licensing and chipset sales practices. certain of these matters are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. we believe that one intent of certain of these investigations and legal proceedings has been to reduce the amount of royalties that licensees are required to pay to us for their use of our intellectual property. we may become subject to other litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings in the future. if we were required to reduce the royalty rates in our patent license agreements, our revenues, earnings and cash flows would be negatively impacted absent a sufficient increase in the volume of sales of devices upon which royalties are paid. similarly, if we were required to reduce the base on which our royalties are calculated, our revenues, results of operations and cash flows would be negatively impacted unless there was a sufficient increase in the volume of sales of devices upon which royalties are paid or we were able to increase our royalty rates to offset the decrease in revenues resulting from such lower royalty base (assuming the absolute royalty dollars were below any relevant royalty caps). if we were required to grant patent licenses to chipset manufacturers (which could lead to implementing a more complex, multi-level licensing structure in which we license certain portions of our patent portfolio to chipset manufacturers and other portions to oems), we would incur additional transaction costs, which may be significant, and we could incur delays in recognizing revenues until license negotiations were completed. in addition, our licensing revenues and earnings would be negatively impacted if we were not able to obtain, in the aggregate, equivalent revenues under such a multi-level licensing structure. if we were required to sell chipsets to oems that do not have a license to our patents, our licensing program could be negatively impacted by patent exhaustion claims raised by such unlicensed oems (i.e., claims that our sale of chipsets to such oems forecloses us from asserting any patents substantially embodied by the chipsets against such oems). such sales would provide oems with a defense in the event we asserted our patents against them to obtain licensing revenue for those patents. this could have a material adverse effect on our licensing program and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. to the extent that we were required to implement any of these new licensing and/or business practices, including by modifying or renegotiating our existing license agreements or pursuing other commercial arrangements, we would incur additional transaction costs, which may be significant, we could incur delays in recognizing revenues until license negotiations were completed, and our business, revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be harmed. the impact of any such changes to our licensing practices could vary widely and by jurisdiction, depending on the specific outcomes and the geographic scope of such outcomes. in addition, if we were required to make modifications to our licensing practices in one jurisdiction, licensees or governmental agencies in other jurisdictions may attempt to obtain similar outcomes for themselves or for such other jurisdictions, as applicable. 24 the continued and future success of our licensing programs requires us to continue to evolve our patent portfolio and to renew or renegotiate license agreements that are expiring or to cover additional future patents. we own a very strong portfolio of issued and pending patents related to 3g, 4g, 5g and other technologies. it is critical that we continue to evolve our patent portfolio, particularly in 5g. if we do not maintain a strong portfolio that is applicable to current and future standards, products and services, our future licensing revenues could be negatively impacted. further, the licenses granted to and from us under a number of our license agreements include only patents that are either filed or issued prior to a certain date. as a result, there are agreements with some licensees where later patents are not licensed by or to us. additionally, our patent license agreements in effect that constitute a significant portion of our licensing revenues are effective for a specified term. in order to license or to obtain a license to such later patents or after the expiration of the specified term, and to receive royalties after the expiration date of the specified term, we will need to extend or modify such license agreements or enter into new license agreements with such licensees more frequently than we have done historically. we might not be able to extend or modify license agreements, or enter into new license agreements, in the future without negatively affecting the material terms and conditions of our license agreements with such licensees, and such modifications or new agreements may negatively impact our revenues. in some circumstances, we may extend, modify or enter into new license agreements as a result of arbitration or litigation, and terms imposed by arbitrators or courts may be less favorable to us than existing terms and may impact the financial or other terms of license agreements not subject to the litigation or arbitration. if there is a delay in extending, modifying or entering into a new license agreement with a licensee, there would be a delay in our ability to recognize revenues related to that licensee's product sales. further, if we are unable to reach agreement on such modifications or new agreements, it could result in patent infringement litigation with such companies. risks related to regulatory and legal challenges our business may suffer as a result of adverse rulings in government investigations or proceedings. we have been in the past and are currently subject to various governmental investigations and proceedings. certain of these matters are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. key allegations or findings in those matters include, among others, that we violate frand licensing commitments by refusing to grant licenses to chipset manufacturers; that our royalty rates are too high; that the base on which our royalties are calculated should be something less than the wholesale (i.e., licensee's) selling price of the applicable device (minus certain permitted deductions); that we unlawfully require customers to execute a patent license before we sell them cellular modem chipsets; that we have entered into exclusive agreements with chipset customers that foreclose competition; that we leverage our position in baseband chipsets in the rffe space; and that we violate antitrust laws, engage in anticompetitive conduct and unfair methods of competition. we may become subject to other litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings in the future. unfavorable resolutions of one or more of these matters have had and could in the future have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. depending on the matter, various remedies that could result from an unfavorable resolution include, among others, the loss of our ability to enforce one or more of our patents; injunctions; monetary damages or fines or other orders to pay money; the issuance of orders to cease certain conduct or modify our business practices, such as requiring us to reduce our royalty rates, reduce the base on which our royalties are calculated, grant patent licenses to chipset manufacturers, sell chipsets to unlicensed oems or modify or renegotiate some or all of our existing license agreements; and determinations that some or all of our license agreements are invalid or unenforceable. if some or all of our license agreements are declared invalid or unenforceable and/or we are required to renegotiate these license agreements, we may not receive, or may not be able to recognize, some or any licensing or royalty revenues under the impacted license agreements unless and until we enter into new license agreements; and even licensees whose license agreements are not impacted may demand to renegotiate their agreements or invoke the dispute resolution provision in their agreements, and we may not be able to recognize some or any licensing or royalty revenues under such agreements. the renegotiation of license agreements could result in terms which are less favorable to us than existing terms, or lead to arbitration or litigation to resolve the licensing terms, which could also be less favorable to us than existing terms, and each of which could take months or possibly years. licensees may underreport, underpay, not report or not pay royalties owed to us pending the conclusion of such negotiations, arbitration or litigation. in addition, we may be sued for alleged overpayments of past royalties paid to us, including private antitrust actions seeking treble damages under u.s. antitrust laws. the occurrence of any of the above could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and our stock price could decline, possibly significantly, in which case we may have to significantly cut costs and other uses of cash, including in research and development, significantly impairing our ability to maintain product and technology leadership and invest in next generation technologies such as 5g. further, depending on the breadth and severity of the circumstances above, we may have to reduce, suspend or eliminate our capital return programs, and our ability to timely pay our indebtedness may be impacted. in addition, a governmental body in a particular country or region may successfully assert and impose remedies with effects that extend beyond the borders of that country or region. these challenges have required, and we expect that they will continue to require, the investment of significant management time and attention and have resulted, and we expect that they will continue to result, in significant legal costs until the respective matters are resolved. 25 risks related to supply and manufacturing we depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for the procurement, manufacture and testing of our products manufactured in a fabless production model. if we fail to execute supply strategies that provide supply assurance, technology leadership and reasonable margins, our business and results of operations may be harmed. we are also subject to order and shipment uncertainties that could negatively impact our results of operations. we primarily utilize a fabless production model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. other than the facilities we own that manufacture certain of our rffe modules and rf filter products, we rely on third-party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits. our suppliers are also responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. there are a limited number of such third-party suppliers, and even fewer who are capable of manufacturing at the leading process technology nodes. we employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing models to purchase our integrated circuits. under the turnkey model, our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. under the two-stage manufacturing model, we purchase die in singular or wafer form from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-party suppliers for manufacturing services such as wafer bump, probe, assembly and the majority of our final test requirements. the semiconductor manufacturing foundries that supply our products are primarily located in asia, as are our primary warehouses where we store finished goods for fulfillment of customer orders. the following could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand and negatively impact our revenues, business operations, profitability and cash flows: a reduction, interruption, delay or limitation in our product supply sources; a failure by our suppliers to procure raw materials or allocate adequate raw materials for our products; a failure by our suppliers to allocate adequate manufacturing or test capacity for our products; our suppliers' inability to react to shifts in product demand or an increase in raw material or component prices; our suppliers' inability to develop or maintain, or a delay in developing or building out manufacturing capacity for leading process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies; the loss of a supplier or the inability of a supplier to meet performance, quality or yield specifications or delivery schedules; additional expense or production delays as a result of qualifying a new supplier and commencing volume production or testing in the event of a loss of, or a decision to add or change, a supplier; natural disasters or geopolitical conflicts impacting our suppliers; health crises, including epidemics or pandemics, such as the covid-19 pandemic, and government and business responses thereto, which impact our suppliers, including as a result of quarantines or closure; and trade or national security protection policies, particularly u.s. or chinese government policies, that limit or prevent us from transacting business with suppliers of critical integrated circuit products, or that limit or prevent such suppliers from transacting business with us or from procuring materials, machinery or technology necessary to manufacture goods for us. while we have established alternate suppliers for certain technologies, there are a limited number of such suppliers, and even fewer who are capable of operating at the leading process technology nodes. we rely on sole- or limited-source suppliers for certain products, which may exacerbate the aforementioned risks or subject us to other significant risks, including: poor product performance and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing capability and yields, quality assurance, quantity and costs. to the extent we have established alternate suppliers, these suppliers may require significant levels of time and support to bring such technologies to production, both of which may increase for complex or leading process technologies. as a result, we may invest a significant amount of effort and resources and incur higher costs to support and maintain such alternate suppliers. further, any future consolidation of foundry suppliers, or limitation in a foundry supplier's ability to manufacture products for us due to trade or national security protection policies, could increase our vulnerability to sole- or limited-source arrangements and reduce our suppliers' willingness to negotiate pricing, which could negatively impact our ability to achieve cost reductions and could increase our manufacturing costs, and limit the amount of capacity available to us. our arrangements with our suppliers may obligate us to incur costs to manufacture and test our products that do not decrease at the same rate as decreases in pricing to our customers. our ability, and that of our suppliers, to develop or maintain leading process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies (which adds risk to manufacturing yields and reliability), and to effectively compete with the manufacturing processes and performance of our competitors, could impact our ability to introduce new products and meet customer demand, could increase our costs (possibly decreasing our margins) and could subject us to the risk of excess inventories. any of the above could negatively impact our business, results of operations and cash flows. although we have long-term contracts with our suppliers, most of these contracts do not provide for long-term capacity commitments. to the extent we do not have firm commitments from our suppliers over a specific time period or for any 26 specific quantity, our suppliers may allocate, and in the past have allocated, capacity to the production and testing of products for their other customers while reducing or limiting capacity to manufacture or test our products, and such capacity may be limited based on our suppliers' ability and willingness to invest in the capital required to manufacture in the leading process technologies. accordingly, capacity for our products may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. to the extent we do obtain long-term capacity commitments, we may incur additional costs related to those commitments or make non-refundable payments for capacity commitments that are not used. our suppliers or potential alternate suppliers may manufacture cdma- or ofdma-based integrated circuits, for themselves or for other companies, that compete with our products. such suppliers have in the past and could again elect to allocate raw materials and manufacturing capacity to their own products or products of our competitors and reduce or limit the production of our products. in addition, we may not receive reasonable pricing, manufacturing or delivery terms from our suppliers. we cannot guarantee that the actions of our suppliers will not cause disruptions in our operations that could harm our ability to meet our delivery obligations to our customers or increase our cost of sales. to the extent we are unable to obtain adequate supply, we may be obligated to make payment to our customers for such shortfalls. additionally, we place orders with our suppliers using our and our customers' forecasts of demand for our products, which are based on a number of assumptions and estimates. as we move to smaller geometry process technologies, the manufacturing lead-time increases. as a result, the orders we place with our suppliers are generally only partially covered by commitments from our customers. if we, or our customers, overestimate demand, or if demand is impacted by factors outside of our or our customers' control, such as the covid-19 pandemic, that is not under a binding commitment from our customers, we may experience increased excess or obsolete inventory, which would negatively impact our results of operations. there are numerous risks associated with the operation and control of our manufacturing facilities, including a higher portion of fixed costs relative to a fabless model, environmental compliance and liability, impacts related to climate change, exposure to natural disasters, timely supply of equipment and materials, and various manufacturing issues. we own and operate various facilities that manufacture certain of our rffe modules and rf filter products. manufacturing facilities are characterized by a higher portion of fixed costs relative to a fabless model. we may be faced with a decline in the utilization rates of our manufacturing facilities due to decreases in demand for our products, including in less favorable industry environments. during such periods, our manufacturing facilities could operate at lower capacity levels, while the fixed costs associated with such facilities would continue to be incurred, resulting in lower gross profit. we are subject to many environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate our manufacturing facilities, which govern, among other things, emissions of pollutants into the air; wastewater discharges; the use, storage, generation, handling and disposal of hazardous substances and other waste; the investigation and remediation of soil and ground water contamination; and the health and safety of our employees. certain environmental laws impose strict, and in certain circumstances joint and several, liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property, or parties who arranged for hazardous substances to be sent to disposal or treatment facilities, for the cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances. as a result, we may incur clean-up costs in connection with any such removal or remediation efforts, as well as other third-party claims in connection with contaminated sites. in addition, we could be held liable for consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances or other environmental damage. if we, or companies or facilities we acquire or have acquired, in the past failed or in the future fail to comply with any such laws and regulations, then we could incur liabilities, fines or prohibitions on the sale of products we manufacture, and our operations could be suspended. such laws and regulations could also restrict our ability to modify or expand our facilities, could require us to acquire costly equipment, or could require other significant expenditures. we are also required to obtain and maintain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. while we have policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and permits, we cannot make assurances that we, or our employees, contractors or agents, will at all times be in compliance with such laws, regulations and permits, or our related policies and procedures. climate change concerns and the potential resulting environmental impact may result in new environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that may affect us, our suppliers and our customers. such laws or regulations could cause us to incur additional direct costs for compliance, as well as increased indirect costs resulting from our customers, suppliers or both incurring additional compliance costs that are passed on to us. these costs may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, climate change may pose physical risks to our manufacturing facilities or our suppliers' facilities, including increased extreme weather events that could result in supply delays or disruptions. we have manufacturing facilities in asia and europe. if tsunamis, flooding, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters, effects of climate change or geopolitical conflicts, were to damage, destroy or disrupt our manufacturing facilities, it could disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments of inventory and result in costly repairs, replacements or other costs. in addition, natural disasters, effects of climate change or geopolitical conflicts may result in disruptions in transportation, distribution channels and supply chains, and significant increases in the prices of raw materials. further, health crises, including epidemics or pandemics, such as the covid-19 pandemic, and government and business responses thereto, could affect our manufacturing facilities, including by resulting in quarantines and/or closures, which would result in disruptions to and potential closures of our manufacturing operations. 27 our manufacturing operations depend on securing raw materials and other supplies in adequate quality and quantity in a timely manner from multiple suppliers, and in some cases, we rely on a limited number of suppliers, particularly in asia. accordingly, there may be cases where supplies of raw materials and other products are interrupted by disaster, accident or some other event at a supplier, supply is suspended due to quality or other issues, or there is a shortage of supply due to a rapid increase in demand, among others, which could impact production and prevent us from supplying our products to our customers. if the supply-demand balance is disrupted, it may considerably increase costs of manufacturing due to increased prices we pay for raw materials. from time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit amounts supplied to us or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. additionally, supply and costs of raw materials may be negatively impacted by trade and/or national security protection policies, such as tariffs, or actions by governments that limit or prevent us from transacting business with certain companies or that limit or prevent certain companies from transacting business with us, or trade tensions, particularly with countries in asia. further, it may be difficult or impossible to substitute one piece of equipment for another or replace one type of material with another. a failure by our suppliers to deliver our requirements could result in disruptions to our manufacturing operations. our manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and must be continuously modified to improve yields and performance. difficulties in the production process can reduce yields or interrupt production, and as a result, we may not be able to deliver our products or do so in a timely, cost-effective or competitive manner. further, to remain competitive and meet customer demand, we may be required to improve our facilities and process technologies and carry out extensive research and development, each of which may require investment of significant amounts of capital and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. finally, we typically begin manufacturing our products using our or our customers' forecasts of demand for our products, which are based on a number of assumptions and estimates and are generally not covered by purchase commitments. as a result, we incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales, which sales ultimately may not materialize or may be lower than expected. if we or our customers overestimate demand, or if demand is impacted by factors outside of our or our customers' control such as the covid-19 pandemic or trade or national security protection policies, that is not under a binding commitment from our customers, we may experience higher inventory carrying and operating costs and/or increased excess or obsolete inventory, which would negatively impact our results of operations. risks related to new and adjacent initiatives our growth depends in part on our ability to extend our technologies and products into new and expanded product areas, and adjacent industry segments or applications beyond mobile. our research, development and other investments in these new and expanded product areas, industry segments or applications, and related technologies and products, as well as in our existing technologies and products, and new technologies, may not generate operating income or contribute to future results of operations that meet our expectations. while we continue to invest significant resources toward advancements primarily in support of 4g- and 5g-based technologies, we also invest in new and expanded product areas, and adjacent industry segments or applications, by utilizing our existing technical and business expertise and through acquisitions. in particular, our future growth depends in part on new and expanded product areas, such as rffe, and adjacent industry segments or applications beyond mobile, such as automotive and iot; our ability to develop leading and cost-effective technologies and products for new and expanded product areas, adjacent industry segments or applications; and third parties incorporating our technologies and products into devices used in these product areas, industry segments or applications. accordingly, we intend to continue to make substantial investments in these new and expanded product areas and adjacent industry segments or applications, and in developing new products and technologies for these product areas, industry segments or applications. our growth also depends significantly on our ability to develop and patent 5g technologies, and to develop and commercialize products using 5g technologies. however, our research, development and other investments in these new and expanded product areas and adjacent industry segments or applications, and corresponding technologies and products, as well as in our existing, technologies and products and new technologies, such as 5g, use of licensed, shared and unlicensed spectrum and convergence of cellular and wi-fi, may not succeed because, among other reasons: we may not be issued patents on the technologies we develop; the technologies we develop may not be incorporated into relevant standards; new and expanded product areas, adjacent industry segments or applications, and consumer demand therein, may not develop or grow as anticipated; our strategies or the strategies of our customers, licensees or partners may not be successful; alternate technologies may be better or may reduce the advantages we anticipate from our investments; competitors' technologies or products may be more cost effective, have more capabilities or fewer limitations or are brought to market faster than our new technologies or products; we may not be able to develop, or our competitors may have more established and/or stronger, customer, vendor, distributor or other channel relationships; and competitors may have longer operating histories in industry segments or applications that are new to us. we may also underestimate the costs of or overestimate the future revenues or margins that could result from these investments, and these investments may not, or may take many years to, generate material returns. further, the automotive industry is subject to long design-in time frames, long product life cycles and a high degree of regulatory and safety requirements, necessitating suppliers to the industry to comply with stringent qualification processes, very low defect rates and high reliability standards, all of which results in significant barriers to entry and increased costs. 28 if our new technologies and products are not successful, or are not successful in the time frames we anticipate, we may incur significant costs and asset impairments, our business and revenues may not grow or grow as anticipated, our revenues and margins may be negatively impacted, our stock price may decline and our reputation may be harmed. we may engage in strategic acquisitions and other transactions or make investments, or be unable to consummate planned strategic acquisitions, which could adversely affect our results of operations or fail to enhance stockholder value. we engage in strategic acquisitions and other transactions, including joint ventures, and make investments, which we believe are important to the future of our business, with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. from time to time, we acquire businesses and other assets, including patents, technology and other intangible assets, enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions and purchase minority equity interests in or make loans to companies, including those that may be private and early-stage. our strategic activities are generally focused on opening or expanding opportunities for our products and technologies and supporting the design and introduction of new products (or enhancing existing products) for mobile, and for new industry segments or applications beyond mobile. many of our strategic activities entail a high degree of risk and require the use of significant amounts of capital, and investments may not become liquid for several years after the date of the investment, if at all. our strategic activities may not generate financial returns or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies or products. we may underestimate the costs or overestimate the benefits, including product, revenue, cost and other synergies and growth opportunities that we expect to realize, and we may not achieve those benefits. in some cases, we may be required to consolidate or record our share of the earnings or losses of companies in which we have acquired ownership interests. in addition, we have in the past and may record impairment charges in the future related to our strategic activities. any losses or impairment charges that we incur related to strategic activities will have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition, and we may continue to incur new or additional losses related to strategic assets or investments that we have not fully impaired or exited. achieving the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions, including joint ventures and other strategic investments in which we have management and operational control, depends in part upon our ability to integrate the businesses in an efficient and effective manner and achieve anticipated synergies, and we may not be successful in these efforts. such integration is complex and time consuming and involves significant challenges, including, among others: retaining key employees; successfully integrating new employees, facilities, technology, products, processes, operations (including supply and manufacturing operations), sales and distribution channels, business models and business systems; retaining customers and suppliers of the businesses; consolidating research and development operations; minimizing the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business matters; consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; and managing the increased scale, complexity and globalization of our business, operations and employee base. we may not derive any commercial value from associated technologies or products or from future technologies or products based on these technologies, and we may be subject to liabilities that are not covered by indemnification protection that we may obtain, and we may become subject to litigation. additionally, we may not be successful in entering or expanding into new sales or distribution channels, business or operational models, geographic regions, industry segments or applications served by or adjacent to the associated businesses or in addressing potential new opportunities that may arise out of our strategic acquisitions. if we do not achieve the anticipated benefits of business acquisitions or other strategic activities, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, and we may not enhance stockholder value by engaging in these transactions. many of our acquisitions and other strategic investments require approval by the united states and foreign government agencies. certain agencies in the past have, and may in the future, deny the transaction or fail to approve in a timely manner, resulting in us not realizing the anticipated benefits of the proposed transaction. future acquisitions or other strategic investments may be more difficult, complex or expensive to the extent that our reputation for our ability to consummate acquisitions has been harmed. further, if u.s./china relations remain strained, our ability to consummate any transaction that would require approval from the relevant regulatory agency(ies) in china may be severely impacted. risks related to cybersecurity or misappropriation of our critical information our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches of our information technology systems, or other misappropriation of our technology, intellectual property or other proprietary or confidential information. third parties regularly attempt to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems, and many such attempts are increasingly more sophisticated. the perception that the covid-19 pandemic has made companies' information technology systems more vulnerable has increased the already significant volume of such attempts. these attempts, which might be related to industrial, corporate or other espionage, criminal hackers or state-sponsored intrusions, include trying to covertly introduce malware to our computers and networks, including those in our manufacturing operations, and impersonating authorized users, among others. we may also be subject to ransom-style cyber-attacks, which could impact our information technology systems and cause widespread disruption to our business, including our manufacturing operations, and expose our confidential or propriety information. in addition, third parties that we may rely on to store and/or process our confidential information may also be subject to similar threats. such threats could result in the misappropriation, theft, misuse, disclosure, loss or destruction of the technology, intellectual property, or the proprietary, confidential or personal information, of us or our employees, customers, licensees, suppliers or other third parties, as well as damage to or disruptions in our information technology systems. these threats are constantly evolving, increasing the difficulty of successfully defending against them or implementing adequate preventative measures. we seek to detect and investigate all security 29 incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems or other attacks may be successful, and in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. in addition, employees and former employees, in particular former employees who become employees of our competitors, customers, licensees or other third parties, including state actors, have in the past and may in the future misappropriate, use, publish or provide to our competitors, customers, licensees or other third parties, including state actors, our technology, intellectual property or other proprietary or confidential information. this risk is exacerbated as competitors for talent, particularly engineering talent, increasingly attempt to hire our employees. see also the risk factor entitled we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. similarly, we provide access to certain of our technology, intellectual property and other proprietary or confidential information to our direct and indirect customers and licensees and certain of our consultants, who have in the past and may in the future wrongfully use such technology, intellectual property or information, or wrongfully disclose such technology, intellectual property or information to third parties, including our competitors or state actors. we also provide access to certain of our technology, intellectual property and other proprietary or confidential information to certain of our joint venture partners, including those affiliated with state actors and including in foreign jurisdictions where ownership restrictions may require us to take a minority ownership interest in the joint venture. such joint venture partners may wrongfully use such technology, intellectual property or information, or wrongfully disclose such technology, intellectual property or information to third parties, including our competitors or state actors. the misappropriation, theft, misuse, disclosure, loss or destruction of the technology, intellectual property, or the proprietary, confidential or personal information, of us or our employees, customers, licensees, suppliers or other third parties, could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives, cause us to lose business, damage our reputation, subject us to legal or regulatory proceedings, cause us to incur other loss or liability and otherwise adversely affect our business. we expect to continue to devote significant resources to the security of our information technology systems, and our technology, intellectual property and proprietary and confidential information. further, china has implemented, and other countries or regions may implement, cybersecurity laws that require our overall information technology security environment to meet certain standards and/or be certified. such laws may be complex, ambiguous and subject to interpretation, which may create uncertainty regarding compliance. as a result, our efforts to comply with such laws may be expensive and may fail, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. risks related to intellectual property the enforcement and protection of our intellectual property may be expensive, could fail to prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our intellectual property, could result in the loss of our ability to enforce one or more patents, and could be adversely affected by changes in patent laws, by laws in certain foreign jurisdictions that may not effectively protect our intellectual property and by ineffective enforcement of laws in such jurisdictions. we rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, international treaties and other methods, to protect our intellectual property, including our patent portfolio. policing unauthorized use of our products, technologies and intellectual property is difficult and time consuming. the steps we have taken have not always prevented, and we cannot be certain the steps we will take in the future will prevent, the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our products, technologies or intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our rights as fully or as readily as u.s. laws or where the enforcement of such laws may be lacking or ineffective. see also the risk factor entitled our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches of our information technology systems, or other misappropriation of our technology, intellectual property or other proprietary or confidential information. some industry participants who have a vested interest in devaluing patents in general, or standard-essential patents in particular, have mounted attacks on certain patent systems, increasing the likelihood of changes to established patent laws. in the united states, there is continued discussion regarding potential patent law changes and current and potential future litigation regarding patents, the outcomes of which could be detrimental to our licensing business. the laws in certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including certain countries in asia, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws in the united states. we cannot predict with certainty the long-term effects of any potential changes. in addition, we cannot be certain that the laws and policies of any country or the practices of any standards bodies, foreign or domestic, with respect to intellectual property enforcement or licensing or the adoption of standards, will not be changed in the future in a way detrimental to our licensing program or to the sale or use of our products or technologies. we have had and may in the future have difficulty in certain circumstances in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property and contracts, including collecting royalties for use of our patent portfolio due to, among others: refusal by certain licensees to report and pay all or a portion of the royalties they owe to us; policies or political actions of governments, including trade protection and national security policies; challenges to our licensing practices under competition laws; adoption of mandatory licensing provisions by foreign jurisdictions; failure of foreign courts to recognize and enforce judgments of contract breach and damages issued by courts in the united states; and challenges before competition agencies to our licensing business and the pricing and integration of additional features and functionality into our chipset products. see also the risk factors entitled efforts by some oems to avoid paying fair and reasonable royalties for the use of our 30 intellectual property may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources and may result in legal decisions or actions by governments, courts, regulators or agencies, standards development organizations (sdos) or other industry organizations that harm our business and our business may suffer as a result of adverse rulings in government investigations or proceedings . we have engaged in litigation and arbitration in the past and may need to further litigate or arbitrate in the future to enforce our contract and intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. as a result of any such litigation or arbitration, we could lose our ability to enforce one or more patents, portions of our license agreements could be determined to be invalid or unenforceable (which may in turn result in other licensees either not complying with their existing license agreements or initiating litigation or arbitration), license terms (including but not limited to royalty rates for the use of our intellectual property) could be imposed that are less favorable to us than existing terms, and we could incur substantial costs. any action we take to enforce our contract or intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention, which, in turn, could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. further, even a positive resolution to our enforcement efforts may take time to conclude, which may reduce our revenues and cash resources available for other purposes, such as research and development, in the periods prior to conclusion. additionally, although our license agreements provide us with the right to audit the books and records of licensees, audits can be expensive, time consuming, incomplete and subject to dispute. further, certain licensees may not comply with the obligation to provide full access to their books and records. to the extent we do not aggressively enforce our rights under our license agreements, licensees may not comply with their existing license agreements, and to the extent we do not aggressively pursue unlicensed companies to enter into license agreements with us for their use of our intellectual property, other unlicensed companies may not enter into license agreements. similarly, we provide access to certain of our intellectual property and proprietary and confidential business information to our direct and indirect customers and licensees, who have in the past and may in the future wrongfully use such intellectual property and information or wrongfully disclose such intellectual property and information to third parties, including our competitors. see also the risk factor entitled efforts by some oems to avoid paying fair and reasonable royalties for the use of our intellectual property may require the investment of substantial management time and financial resources and may result in legal decisions or actions by governments, courts, regulators or agencies, standards development organizations (sdos) or other industry organizations that harm our business . claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property could adversely affect our business. from time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual property claims against our products or products using our technologies or other technologies used in our industry. these claims have resulted and may again result in our involvement in litigation. we may not prevail in such litigation given, among other factors, the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. if any of our products were found to infringe another company's intellectual property, we could be subject to an injunction or be required to redesign our products, or to license such intellectual property or pay damages or other compensation to such other company (any of which could be costly). if we are unable to redesign our products, license such intellectual property used in our products or otherwise distribute our products (e.g., through a licensed supplier), we could be prohibited from making and selling our products. similarly, our suppliers could be found to infringe another company's intellectual property, and such suppliers could then be enjoined from providing products or services to us. in any potential dispute involving us and another company's patents or other intellectual property, our chipset foundries, semiconductor assembly and test providers and customers could also become the targets of litigation. we are contingently liable under certain product sales, services, license and other agreements to indemnify certain customers, chipset foundries and semiconductor assembly and test service providers against certain types of liability and damages arising from qualifying claims of patent infringement by products sold by us, or by intellectual property provided by us to our chipset foundries and semiconductor assembly and test service providers. reimbursements under indemnification arrangements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. furthermore, any such litigation could severely disrupt the supply of our products and the businesses of our chipset customers and their customers, which in turn could harm our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our chipset sales or a reduction in our licensees' sales, causing a corresponding decline in our chipset or licensing revenues. any claims, regardless of their merit, could be time consuming to address, result in costly litigation, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel or cause product release or shipment delays, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. we may continue to be involved in litigation and may have to appear in front of administrative bodies (such as the united states international trade commission) to defend against patent assertions against our products by companies, some of whom are attempting to gain competitive advantage or leverage in licensing negotiations. we may not be successful in such proceedings, and if we are not, the range of possible outcomes is very broad and may include, for example, monetary damages or fines or other orders to pay money, royalty payments, injunctions on the sale of certain of our integrated circuit products (or on the sale of our customers' devices using such products) or the issuance of orders to cease certain conduct or modify our business practices. further, a governmental body in a particular country or region may assert, and may be successful in imposing, remedies with effects that extend beyond the borders of that country or region. in addition, a negative outcome in any such proceeding could severely disrupt the business of our chipset customers and their wireless operator 31 customers, which in turn could harm our relationships with them and could result in a decline in our chipset sales or a reduction in our licensees' sales to wireless operators, causing corresponding declines in our chipset or licensing revenues. certain legal matters, which may include certain claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property, are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. our use of open source software may harm our business. certain of our software and our suppliers' software may contain or may be derived from open source software, and we have seen, and believe that we will continue to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including software associated with our integrated circuit products, that incorporate open source software elements and operate in an open source environment, which, under certain open source licenses, may offer accessibility to a portion of our products' source code and may expose our related intellectual property to adverse licensing conditions. licensing of such software may impose certain obligations on us if we were to distribute derivative works of that software. for example, these obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to our customers in a manner that allows them to make such source code available to their customers or license such derivative works under a particular type of license that is different than what we customarily use to license our software. furthermore, in the course of product development, we may make contributions to third-party open source projects that could obligate our intellectual property to adverse licensing conditions. for example, to encourage the growth of a software ecosystem that is interoperable with our products, we may need to contribute certain implementations under the open source licensing terms that govern such projects, which may adversely impact our associated intellectual property. developing open source products, while adequately protecting the intellectual property upon which our licensing program depends, may prove burdensome and time-consuming under certain circumstances, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage, and we may not adequately protect our intellectual property. also, our use and our customers' use of open source software may subject our products and our customers' products to governmental and third-party scrutiny and delays in product certification, which could cause customers to view our products as less desirable than our competitors' products. while we believe we have taken appropriate steps and employ adequate controls to protect our intellectual property, our contributions to and use of open source software presents risks that could have an adverse effect on these and on our business. risks related to human capital management we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees. our future success depends upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel, and on our ability to continue to identify, attract, retain and motivate them. implementing our business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, as our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. the market for employees in our industry is extremely competitive, and competitors for talent, particularly engineering talent, increasingly attempt to hire, and to varying degrees have been successful in hiring, our employees, including by establishing local offices near our headquarters in san diego, california. a number of such competitors for talent are significantly larger than us and are able to offer compensation in excess of what we are able to offer. further, existing immigration laws make it more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign national graduates of universities in the united states, making the pool of available talent even smaller. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our business may be harmed. risks related to product defects or security vulnerabilities failures in our products, or in the products of our customers or licensees, including those resulting from security vulnerabilities, defects or errors, could harm our business. our products (including related software) are complex and may contain defects, errors or security vulnerabilities, or experience failures or unsatisfactory performance, due to any number of issues, including issues in materials, design, fabrication, packaging and/or use within a system. further, because of the complexity of our products, defects or errors might only be detected when the products are in use. development of products in new domains of technology, such as the transition to 5g, and the migration to integrated circuit technologies with smaller geometric feature sizes, increases complexity and adds risk to manufacturing yields and reliability, and increases the likelihood of product defects or errors. risks associated with product defects, errors or security vulnerabilities are exacerbated by the fact that our customers typically integrate our products into consumer and other devices. the use of devices containing our products to interact with untrusted systems or otherwise access untrusted content creates a risk of exposing the system hardware and software in those devices to malicious attacks. security vulnerabilities in our products could expose our customers or end users to hackers or other unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that could attack our products or those of our customers. while we continue to focus on this issue and take measures to safeguard our products from cybersecurity threats, device capabilities continue to evolve, enabling more elaborate functionality and applications, and increasing the risk of security failures. our products may be responsible for critical functions in our customers' products and networks. failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, errors or security vulnerabilities, could lead to substantial damage to the products we sell to our customers, the devices into which our products are integrated and to the end users of such devices. 32 such defects, errors or security vulnerabilities could give rise to significant costs, including costs related to developing solutions, recalling products, repairing or replacing defective products, writing down defective inventory, or the indemnification clauses in our agreements, and could result in the loss of sales and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts. in addition, defects, errors or security vulnerabilities in our products could result in failure to achieve market acceptance, a loss of design wins, a shifting of business to our competitors, and litigation or regulatory action against us, and could harm our reputation, our relationships with customers and partners and our ability to attract new customers, as well as the perceptions of our brand. other potential adverse impacts of product defects, errors or security vulnerabilities include shipment delays, write-offs of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, and losses on unfavorable purchase commitments. in addition, defects, errors or security vulnerabilities in the products of our customers or licensees could cause a delay or decrease in demand for the products into which our products are integrated, and thus for our products. in addition, the occurrence of defects may give rise to product liability claims, particularly if defects in our products or the products into which they are integrated result in personal injury or death, and could result in significant costs, expenses and losses. if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant, and could divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and harm our business, even if we are successful. we may be named in product liability claims even if there is no evidence that our products caused the damage in question, and even though we may have indemnity from our customers, and such claims could result in significant costs and expenses. further, our business liability insurance may be inadequate, or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could adversely impact our financial results. the above is exacerbated by the fact that our products may be used, and perform critical functions, in various high-risk applications such as automobiles, including autonomous driver assistance programs; cameras and artificial intelligence, including home and enterprise security; home automation, including smoke and noxious gas detectors; medical condition monitoring; location and asset tracking and management, including wearables for child safety and elderly health; robotics, including public safety drones and autonomous municipality vehicles; and extended reality (xr) for treatment of phobias or ptsd, early detection of disorders or special needs, among others. accordingly, defects, errors or security vulnerabilities in our products could have an adverse impact on us, on our customers and the end users of our customers' products. if any of these risks materialize, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. general risk factors we operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns. we are also susceptible to declines in global, regional and local economic conditions generally. our stock price and financial results are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations due to these dynamics, among others. the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, volatile, subject to downturns and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, price erosion, evolving technical standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and fluctuations in product supply and demand. periods of downturns have been characterized by diminished demand for end-user products, high inventory levels, excess or obsolete inventory adjustments, underutilization of manufacturing capacity, changes in revenue mix and erosion of average selling prices. we expect our business to continue to be subject to such cyclical downturns. consequently, our revenues may decline, and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted. a decline in global, regional or local economic conditions or a slow-down in economic growth, particularly in geographic regions with high concentrations of wireless voice and data users or high concentrations of our customers or licensees, could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on our business and financial results, including a decrease in demand for our products and technologies; a decrease in demand for the products and services of our customers or licensees; the inability of our suppliers to deliver on their supply commitments to us, our inability to supply our products to our customers and/or the inability of our customers or licensees to supply their products to end users; the insolvency of key suppliers, customers or licensees; delays in reporting or payments from our customers or licensees; failures by counterparties; and/or negative effects on wireless device inventories. in addition, our customers' and licensees' ability to purchase or pay for our products and intellectual property and network operators' ability to upgrade their wireless networks could be adversely affected, potentially leading to a reduction, cancellation or delay of orders for our products. our stock price and financial results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our stock and our financial results include those identified above and throughout this risk factors section; volatility of the stock market in general and technology and semiconductor companies in particular; announcements concerning us, our suppliers, our competitors or our customers or licensees; and variations between our actual financial results or guidance and expectations of securities analysts or investors, among others. in the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities, among other reasons. we are and may in the future be the target of securities litigation. securities litigation could result in substantial uninsured costs and divert management's attention and our resources. certain legal matters, including certain securities litigation brought against us, are described more fully in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 7. commitments and contingencies. 33 our business may suffer due to the impact of, or our failure to comply with, the various existing, new or amended laws, regulations, policies or standards to which we are subject. our business and products, and those of our customers and licensees, are subject to various laws, rules and regulations globally as well as government policies and the specifications of international, national and regional communications standards bodies (collectively, regulations). compliance with, or changes in the interpretation of, existing regulations, changes in the oversight of our activities by governments or standards bodies, or rulings in court, regulatory, administrative or other proceedings relating to such regulations, including, among others, regulations affecting patent licensing practices; antitrust, competition and competitive business practices; the flow of funds out of certain countries (e.g., china); cybersecurity; import and export regulations such as the u.s. export administration regulations administered by the u.s. department of commerce; protection of intellectual property; trade and trade protection including tariffs; foreign policy and national security; environmental protection, health and safety; supply chain, responsible sourcing, including the use of conflict minerals, and human rights; spectrum availability and license issuance; adoption of standards; taxation; privacy and data protection; labor, employment and human capital; corporate governance; public disclosure; or business conduct, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. see also the risk factors entitled our business may suffer as a result of adverse rulings in government investigations or proceedings, changes in our patent licensing practices, whether due to governmental investigations or private legal proceedings challenging those practices, or otherwise, could adversely impact our business and results of operations, a significant portion of our business is concentrated in china, and the risks of such concentration are exacerbated by u.s./china trade and national security tensions, there are numerous risks associated with the operation and control of our manufacturing facilities, including a higher portion of fixed costs relative to a fabless model, environmental compliance and liability, issues related to climate change, exposure to natural disasters, timely supply of equipment and materials, and various manufacturing issues, and tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. regulations are complex and changing (which may create uncertainty regarding compliance), are subject to varying interpretations, and their application in practice may evolve over time. as a result, our efforts to comply with regulations may fail, particularly if there is ambiguity as to how they should be applied in practice. failure to comply with any regulation may adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. new regulations or evolving interpretations thereof, may cause us to incur higher costs as we revise current practices, policies or procedures and may divert management time and attention to compliance activities. there are risks associated with our debt. our outstanding debt and any additional debt we incur may have negative consequences on our business, including, among others: requiring us to use cash to pay the principal of and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends, general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, industries or the market. our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which is subject to economic and political conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, we may be required to, among other things: refinance or restructure all or a portion of our debt; reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures; reduce, suspend or eliminate our dividend payments and/or our stock repurchase program; or sell selected assets. such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. in addition, any such refinancing, restructuring or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all, and if prevailing interest rates at the time of any such refinancing or restructuring are higher than our current rates, interest expense related to such refinancing or restructuring would increase. further, if there are adverse changes in the ratings assigned to our debt securities by credit rating agencies, our borrowing costs, our ability to access debt in the future and the terms of such debt could be adversely affected. tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. we regularly are subject to examination of our tax returns and reports by taxing authorities in the united states federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions, most notably in countries where we earn a routine return and the tax authorities believe substantial value-add activities are performed. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related legal proceedings could materially differ from amounts reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. in such case, our income tax provision, results of operations and cash flows in the period or periods in which that determination is made could be negatively affected. tax rules may change in a manner that adversely affects our future reported results of operations or the way we conduct our business. in response to the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act and to better align our profits with our activities, we implemented certain restructuring in fiscal 2018 and 2019. after our restructuring, most of our income is taxable in the united states with a significant portion qualifying for preferential treatment as fdii (foreign-derived intangible income). beginning in fiscal 2027, the effective tax rate for fdii increases from 13% to 16%. further, if u.s. tax rates increase or the fdii deduction is eliminated or reduced, our provision for income taxes, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. also, if our customers move manufacturing operations to the united states, our fdii deduction will be reduced. 34 we have tax incentives in singapore that require we meet specified employment and other criteria. although our profit in singapore has declined as a result of our 2018 restructuring, failure to meet these incentive requirements through march 2022 could result in a retroactive singapore tax increase for 2017 and 2018. further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting (beps) project that was undertaken by the organization for economic co-operation and development (oecd). the oecd, which represents a coalition of member countries, recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles related to transfer pricing and continues to develop new proposals including allocating greater taxing rights to countries where customers are located and establishing a minimum tax on global income. these changes, as adopted by countries, may increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes, results of operations and cash flows. partially to address beps, we moved certain intellectual property from singapore to the united states as part of our 2018 and 2019 restructuring. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk marketable securities we have made investments in marketable equity securities of companies of varying size, style, industry and geography and changes in investment allocations may affect the price volatility of our investments. in fiscal 2018, we announced that we had been authorized to repurchase up to $30 billion of our common stock. the actions taken pursuant to our stock repurchase program have significantly reduced the amount of cash available to fund our investments in marketable securities. equity price risk. at september 27, 2020, the recorded value of our marketable equity securities was $352 million. a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities at september 27, 2020 would have caused a decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities of $35 million. a 10% decrease in the market price of our marketable equity securities at september 29, 2019 would have caused a decrease in the carrying amounts of these securities of $42 million. interest rate risk. we invest a portion of our cash in a number of diversified fixed- and floating-rate securities consisting of cash equivalents, marketable debt securities and time and demand deposits that are subject to interest rate risk. at september 27, 2020, a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 basis points across the entire yield curve on our holdings would have resulted in a decrease of $32 million in the fair value of our holdings. at september 29, 2019, a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 basis points across the entire yield curve on our holdings would have resulted in a negligible decrease in the fair value of our holdings. other investments equity price risk. we hold investments in non-marketable equity instruments in privately held companies that may be impacted by equity price risks. beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2020, the rapid, global spread of covid-19 and the uncertainty it has created has resulted in significant volatility in the condition of economies and financial markets globally and has led to a global recession. this has adversely affected certain of our non-marketable equity investments. volatility in the equity markets could negatively affect our investees' ability to raise additional capital as well as our ability to realize value from our investments through initial public offerings, mergers and private sales. consequently, we could incur significant losses on our non-marketable equity investments. at september 27, 2020, the aggregate carrying value of our non-marketable equity investments was included in other noncurrent assets and was $982 million. debt interest rate risk. as substantially all of our debt is comprised of unsecured fixed-rate notes, we are not subject to significant interest rate risk. at september 27, 2020, we had an aggregate principal amount of $500 million in unsecured floating-rate notes due january 30, 2023. the interest rates on our floating-rate notes are based on libor. at september 27, 2020, a hypothetical increase in libor-based interest rates of 100 basis points would cause a negligible increase to interest expense on an annualized basis as it relates to our floating-rate notes. at september 27, 2020, we also had $500 million in commercial paper outstanding, for which our exposure to interest rate risk is negligible based on the original maturities of approximately three months or less. additional information regarding our notes and commercial paper program is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1. significant accounting policies and notes to consolidated financial statements, note 6. debt. foreign exchange risk we manage our exposure to foreign exchange market risks, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial counterparties. we utilize such derivative financial instruments for hedging or risk management purposes rather than for speculative purposes. counterparties to our derivative contracts are all major banking institutions. in the event of the financial insolvency or distress of a counterparty to our derivative financial instruments, we may be unable to settle transactions if the counterparty does not provide us with sufficient collateral to secure its net settlement obligations to us, which could have a negative impact on our results. a description of our foreign currency accounting policies is provided in this annual report in notes to consolidated financial statements, note 1. significant accounting policies. foreign currency options. at september 27, 2020, our net liability related to foreign currency options designated as hedges of foreign currency risk on royalties earned from certain licensees was negligible. if our forecasted royalty revenues for currencies in which we hedge were to decline by 10% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 10% in our hedged foreign currency, we would not incur a loss as our hedge positions would continue to be fully effective. based on forecasts at september 29, 2019, assuming the same hypothetical market conditions, we would also not have incurred a loss. foreign currency forwards. at september 27, 2020, our net asset related to foreign currency forward contracts designated as hedges of foreign currency risk on certain operating expenditure transactions was $49 million. if our forecasted operating expenditures for currencies in which we hedge were to decline by 10% and foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 10% in our hedged foreign currency, we would not incur a loss as our hedge positions would continue to be fully effective. based on forecasts at september 29, 2019, assuming the same hypothetical market conditions, we would also not have incurred a loss. 50 at september 27, 2020, our net liability related to foreign currency forward contracts not designated as hedging instruments used to manage foreign currency risk on certain receivables and payables was negligible. if the foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 10% in our hedged foreign currency, we would not incur a loss as the change in the fair value of the foreign currency option and forward contracts would be offset by the change in fair value of the related receivables and/or payables being economically hedged. based on forecasts at september 29, 2019, assuming the same hypothetical market conditions, we would also not have incurred a loss. net investment hedges. at september 27, 2020, we have designated $1.4 billion of foreign currency-denominated liabilities, excluding accrued interest, as hedges of our net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. if foreign exchange rates were to change unfavorably by 10% in our hedged foreign currency, there would be an increase of $144 million in the accumulated other comprehensive loss attributable to the cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment at september 27, 2020 related to our net investment hedges. the change in value recorded in cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment would be expected to offset a corresponding foreign currency translation gain or loss from our investment in foreign subsidiaries. functional currency. financial assets and liabilities held by consolidated subsidiaries that are not denominated in the functional currency of those entities are subject to the effects of currency fluctuations and may affect reported earnings. as a global company, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we may hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and certain anticipated nonfunctional currency transactions. as a result, we could experience unanticipated gains or losses on anticipated foreign currency cash flows, as well as economic loss with respect to the recoverability of investments. while we may hedge certain transactions with non-u.s. customers, declines in currency values in certain regions may, if not reversed, adversely affect future product sales because our products may become more expensive to purchase in the countries of the affected currencies. our analysis methods used to assess and mitigate the risks discussed above should not be considered projections of future risks.