risk factors 26 risk factors in addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results. unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to pinnacle west and its subsidiaries, including aps. regulatory risks our financial condition depends upon aps's ability to recover costs in a timely manner from customers through regulated rates and otherwise execute its business strategy. aps is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence its business, liquidity, results of operations and its ability to fully recover costs from utility customers in a timely manner. the acc regulates aps's retail electric rates and ferc regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services. the profitability of aps is affected by the rates it may charge and the timeliness of recovering costs incurred through its rates. consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of any aps rate proceedings and ancillary matters which may come before the acc and ferc. arizona, like certain other states, has a statute that allows the acc to reopen prior decisions and modify otherwise final orders under certain circumstances. the acc must also approve aps's issuance of securities and any significant transfer or encumbrance of aps property used to provide retail electric service, and must approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between us, aps and our respective affiliates. decisions made by the acc or ferc could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. aps's ability to conduct its business operations and avoid fines and penalties depends upon compliance with federal, state or local statutes, regulations and acc requirements, and obtaining and maintaining certain regulatory permits, approvals and certificates. aps must comply in good faith with all applicable statutes, regulations, rules, tariffs, and orders of agencies that regulate aps's business, including ferc, nrc, epa, the acc, and state and local governmental agencies. these agencies regulate many aspects of aps's utility operations, including safety and performance, emissions, siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that aps can charge retail and wholesale customers. failure to comply can subject aps to, among other things, fines and penalties. for example, under the energy policy act of 2005, ferc can impose penalties (up to one million dollars per day per violation) for failure to comply with mandatory electric reliability standards. aps is also required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies. aps believes the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that aps's business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. however, changes in regulations or the imposition 26 table of contents of new or revised laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we are also unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from pending or future regulatory activities of any of these agencies . the operation of aps's nuclear power plant exposes it to substantial regulatory oversight and potentially significant liabilities and capital expenditures. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose safety-related, security-related and other licensing requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. events at nuclear facilities of other operators or impacting the industry generally may lead the nrc to impose additional requirements and regulations on all nuclear generation facilities, including palo verde. as a result of the march 2011 earthquake and tsunamis that caused significant damage to the fukushima daiichi nuclear power plant in japan, various industry organizations are working to analyze information from the japan incident and develop action plans for u.s. nuclear power plants. additionally, the nrc has been performing its own independent review of the events at fukushima daiichi, including a review of the agency's processes and regulations in order to determine whether the agency should promulgate additional regulations and possibly make more fundamental changes to the nrc's system of regulation. we cannot predict when or if the nrc will complete its formal actions as a result of its review. as a result of the fukushima event, however, the nrc has directed nuclear power plants to implement the first tier recommendations of the nrc's near term task force. in response to these recommendations, palo verde expects to spend approximately $40 million for capital enhancements to the plant over the next two years in addition to the approximate $80 million that has already been spent on capital enhancements as of december 31, 2014 (aps's share is 29.1%). we cannot predict whether these amounts will increase or whether additional financial and/or operational requirements on palo verde and aps may be imposed. in the event of noncompliance with its requirements, the nrc has the authority to impose a progressively increased inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut-down of a unit or civil penalties, or both, depending upon the nrc's assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. the increased costs resulting from penalties, a heightened level of scrutiny and implementation of plans to achieve compliance with nrc requirements may adversely affect aps's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. aps is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, and changes in, or liabilities under, existing or new laws or regulations may increase aps's cost of operations or impact its business plans. aps is, or may become, subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, discharges of wastewater and streams originating from fly ash and bottom ash handling facilities, solid waste, hazardous waste, and coal combustion products, which consist of bottom ash, fly ash, and air pollution control wastes. these laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations. these laws and regulations generally require aps to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, and other approvals. if there is a delay or failure to obtain any required environmental regulatory approval, or if aps fails to obtain, maintain, or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to additional expenses. in addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in civil liability as a result of government enforcement actions or private claims or criminal penalties. both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. aps cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. environmental clean up. aps has been named as a prp for a superfund site in phoenix, arizona, and it could be named a prp in the future for other environmental clean-up at sites identified by a regulatory body. 27 table of contents aps cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up costs. there is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all prps. regional haze. aps has received final rulemakings imposing new requirements on four corners, cholla and the navajo plant. pursuant to these rules, epa and adeq will require these plants to install pollution control equipment that constitutes bart to lessen the impacts of emissions on visibility surrounding the plants. the financial impact of installing and operating the required pollution control equipment could jeopardize the economic viability of these plants or the ability of individual participants to continue their participation in these plants. coal ash. in december 2014, epa issued final regulations governing the handling and disposal of ccr, which are generated as a result of burning coal and consist of, among other things, fly ash and bottom ash. the rule regulates ccr as a non-hazardous waste. aps currently disposes of ccr in ash ponds and dry storage areas at cholla and four corners and in a dry landfill storage area at the navajo plant. to the extent the rule requires the closure or modification of these ccr units or the construction of new ccr units beyond what we currently anticipate, aps could incur significant additional costs for ccr disposal. effluent limitation guidelines. epa is expected to finalize revised effluent limitation guidelines establishing technology-based wastewater discharge limitations for fossil-fired egus in 2015. epa has indicated that it expects the revised standards to target metals and other pollutants in wastewater streams originating from fly ash and bottom ash handling activities and scrubber-related operations. aps currently disposes of fly ash waste and bottom ash in ash ponds at four corners. changes required by the rule could significantly increase ash disposal costs at four corners. ozone national ambient air quality standards. in december 2014, epa proposed revisions to the national ambient air quality standards, which would set new, more stringent standards intended to protect human health and human welfare. depending on the stringency of the final standards and the implementation requirements, aps may be required to invest in new pollution control technologies and to generate emission offsets for new projects or facility expansions located in ozone nonattainment areas. new source review. epa has taken the position that many projects electric utilities have performed are major modifications that trigger nsr requirements under the clean air act. the utilities generally have taken the position that these projects are routine maintenance, repair and replacement and did not result in emissions increases, and thus are not subject to nsr. in 2009, aps received and responded to a request from epa regarding projects and operations at four corners. several environmental non-governmental organizations filed suit against the four corners participants for alleged violations of the clean air act's nsr and nsps programs. if epa seeks to impose nsr requirements at four corners or any other aps plant, or if the citizens groups prevail in their clean air act lawsuit, capital investments could be required to install new pollution control technologies. epa could also seek civil penalties. aps cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to it. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by aps are not fully recoverable from aps's customers, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. due to current or potential future regulations or legislation, the economics of continuing to own certain resources, particularly coal facilities, may deteriorate, warranting early retirement of those plants, which may result in asset impairments. aps would seek recovery in rates for the book value of any remaining investments in the plants as well as other costs related to early retirement, but cannot predict whether it would obtain such recovery. 28 table of contents aps faces physical and operational risks related to climate effects, and potential financial risks resulting from climate change litigation and legislative and regulatory efforts to limit ghg emissions. concern over climate change has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit co2, which is a major byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuel, and other ghg emissions. financial risks - potential greenhouse gas regulation. in 2014, epa proposed a rule to limit carbon dioxide emissions from existing power plants. epa expects to finalize the proposal in summer 2015. epa's proposal for arizona would result in a shift in in-state generation from coal to natural gas and renewable generation. such a substantial change in aps's generation portfolio could require additional capital investments and increased operating costs, and thus have a significant financial impact on the company. physical and operational risks. weather extremes such as drought and high temperature variations are common occurrences in the southwest's desert area, and these are risks that aps considers in the normal course of business in the engineering and construction of its electric system. large increases in ambient temperatures could require evaluation of certain materials used within its system and represent a greater challenge. deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition, which could have a significant adverse impact on aps's business and its results of operations. in 1999, the acc approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in arizona. retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on aps due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital. although some very limited retail competition existed in aps's service area in 1999 and 2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to aps's customers. on may 9, 2013, the acc voted to re-examine the facilitation of a deregulated retail electric market in arizona. the acc subsequently opened a docket for this matter and received comments from a number of interested parties on the considerations involved in establishing retail electric deregulation in the state. one of these considerations is whether various aspects of a deregulated market, including setting utility rates on a market basis, would be consistent with the requirements of the arizona constitution. on september 11, 2013, after receiving legal advice from the acc staff, the acc voted 4-1 to close the current docket and await full arizona constitutional authority before any further examination of this matter. the motion approved by the acc also included opening one or more new dockets in the future to explore options to offer more rate choices to customers and innovative changes within the existing cost-of-service regulatory model that could include elements of competition. one of these options could be a continuation or expansion of aps's existing ag (alternative generation) 1 program, which essentially allows up to 200 mw of cumulative load to be served via a buy-through arrangement with competitive suppliers of generation. we cannot predict future regulatory or legislative action that might result in increased competition. in 2010, the acc issued a decision holding that solar vendors that install and operate solar facilities for non-profit schools and governments pursuant to a specific type of contract that calculates payments based on the energy produced are not public service corporations under the arizona constitution, and are therefore not regulated by the acc. a second matter is pending with the acc to determine whether that ruling should extend to solar providers who serve a broader customer base under the same business model. the use of such products by customers within our territory results in some level of competition. aps cannot predict whether the acc will deem these vendors public service corporations subject to acc regulation and when, and the extent to which, additional service providers will enter aps's service territory, increasing the level of competition in the market. 29 table of contents operational risks aps's results of operations can be adversely affected by various factors impacting demand for electricity. weather conditions. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities. electric power demand is generally a seasonal business. in arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. as a result, aps's overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, aps has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. as a result, unusually mild weather could diminish aps's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. higher temperatures may decrease the snowpack, which might result in lowered soil moisture and an increased threat of forest fires. forest fires could threaten aps's communities and electric transmission lines and facilities. any damage caused as a result of forest fires could negatively impact aps's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. effects of energy conservation measures and distributed energy. the acc has enacted rules regarding energy efficiency that mandate a 22% annual energy savings requirement by 2020. this will likely increase participation by aps customers in energy efficiency and conservation programs and other demand-side management efforts, which in turn will impact the demand for electricity. the rules also include a requirement for the acc to review and address financial disincentives, recovery of fixed costs and the recovery of net lost income/revenue that would result from lower sales due to increased energy efficiency requirements. to that end, the settlement agreement in aps's most recent retail rate case (the 2012 settlement agreement ) includes a mechanism, the lfcr, to address these matters. aps must also meet certain distributed energy requirements. a portion of aps's total renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of distributed energy resources (generally, small scale renewable technologies located on customers' properties). the distributed energy requirement was 25% of the overall res requirement of 3% in 2011 and increased to 30% of the applicable res requirement for 2012 and subsequent years. customer participation in distributed energy programs would result in lower demand, since customers would be meeting some or all of their own energy needs. reduced demand due to these energy efficiency and distributed energy requirements, unless substantially offset through ratemaking mechanisms, could have a material adverse impact on aps's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. customer and sales growth. for the three years 2012 through 2014, aps's retail customer growth averaged 1.3% per year. we currently expect annual customer growth to average in the range of 2.0-3.0% for 2015 through 2017 based on our assessment of modestly improving economic conditions in arizona. for the three years 2012 through 2014, aps experienced annual decreases in retail electricity sales averaging 0.2%, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations. we currently estimate that annual retail electricity sales in kwh will increase on average in the range of 0.5-1.5% during 2015 through 2017, including the effects of customer conservation and energy efficiency and distributed renewable generation initiatives, but excluding the effects of weather variations. actual customer and sales growth may differ from our projections as a result of numerous factors, such as economic conditions, customer growth, usage patterns and energy conservation, impacts of energy efficiency programs and growth in distributed generation, and responses to retail price changes. additionally, recovery of a substantial portion of our fixed costs of providing service is based upon the volumetric amount of our sales. if our customer growth rate does not continue to improve as projected, or if it declines, or if the arizona economy fails to improve, we may be unable to reach our estimated demand level and sales projections, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 30 table of contents the operation of power generation facilities and transmission systems involves risks that could result in reduced output or unscheduled outages, which could materially affect aps's results of operations . the operation of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other complications, occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of aps's business. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the larger transmission power grid, and the operation or failure of our facilities could adversely affect the operations of others. if aps's facilities operate below expectations, especially during its peak seasons, it may lose revenue or incur additional expenses, including increased purchased power expenses. concerns over physical security of these assets is also increasing, which may require us to incur additional capital and operating costs to address. damage to certain of our facilities due to vandalism or other deliberate acts could lead to outages or other adverse effects. the inability to successfully develop or acquire generation resources to meet reliability requirements, new or evolving standards or regulations could adversely impact our business. potential changes in regulatory standards, impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, and the need to obtain certain regulatory approvals create uncertainty surrounding our generation portfolio. the current abundance of low, stably priced natural gas, together with environmental and other concerns surrounding coal-fired generation resources, create strategic questions related to the appropriate generation portfolio and fuel diversification mix. in addition, aps is required by the acc to meet certain energy resource portfolio requirements such as the ees and the res. the development of any generation facility is subject to many risks, including risks related to financing, siting, permitting, technology, the construction of sufficient transmission capacity to support these facilities and stresses to generation and transmission resources from intermittent generation characteristics of renewable resources. aps's inability to adequately develop or acquire the necessary generation resources could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. the lack of access to sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on aps's business and results of operations. assured supplies of water are important for aps's generating plants. water in the southwestern united states is limited, and various parties have made conflicting claims regarding the right to access and use such limited supply of water. both groundwater and surface water in areas important to aps's generating plants have been and are the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings. in addition, the region in which aps's power plants are located is prone to drought conditions, which could potentially affect the plants' water supplies. aps's inability to access sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. the ownership and operation of power generation and transmission facilities on indian lands could result in uncertainty related to continued leases, easements and rights-of-way, which could have a significant impact on our business. certain aps power plants, including four corners, and portions of the transmission lines that carry power from these plants are located on indian lands pursuant to leases, easements or other rights-of-way that are effective for specified periods. aps is unable to predict the final outcome of pending and future approvals by applicable governing bodies with respect to renewals of these leases, easements and rights-of-way. 31 table of contents there are inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health, fuel supply, spent fuel disposal, regulatory and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack. aps has an ownership interest in and operates, on behalf of a group of participants, palo verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the united states. palo verde constitutes approximately 18% of our owned and leased generation capacity. palo verde is subject to environmental, health and financial risks, such as the ability to obtain adequate supplies of nuclear fuel; the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. aps maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. in addition, aps may be required under federal law to pay up to $111 million (but not more than $16.5 million per year) of liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident occurring not only at palo verde, but at any other nuclear power plant in the united states. although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at palo verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit and to promulgate new regulations that could require significant capital expenditures and/or increase operating costs. the use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. aps's operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices. aps is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas and coal to the extent that unhedged positions exist. we have established procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives, including exchange traded futures and options and over-the-counter forwards, options, and swaps. as part of our overall risk management program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and fuels. the changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity. to the extent that commodity markets are illiquid, we may not be able to execute our risk management strategies, which could result in greater unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given time and financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ( dodd-frank act ) contains measures aimed at increasing the transparency and stability of the over-the counter, or otc, derivative markets and preventing excessive speculation. the dodd-frank act could restrict, among other things, trading positions in the energy futures markets, require different collateral or settlement positions, or increase regulatory reporting over derivative positions. based on the provisions included in the dodd-frank act and the implementation of regulations, these changes could, among other things, impact our ability to hedge commodity price and interest rate risk or increase the costs associated with our hedging programs. we are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties. we use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties. despite the fact that the majority of aps's trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default, which could result in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. 32 table of contents changes in technology could create challenges for aps's existing business. research and development activities are ongoing to develop and commercialize alternative technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption or emissions, including renewable technologies including photovoltaic (solar) cells, customer-sited generation, energy storage (batteries), and efficiency technologies. advances in these, or other technologies could reduce the cost of power production, making aps's existing generating facilities less economical. in addition, advances in technology and equipment/appliance efficiency could reduce the demand for power supply, which could adversely affect aps's business. aps has, and continues to pursue and implement, smart grid technologies, including advanced transmission and distribution system technologies, as well as digital meters enabling two-way communications between the utility and its customers. many of the products and processes resulting from these and other alternative technologies have not yet been widely used or tested on a long-term basis, and their use on large-scale systems is not as established or mature as aps's existing technologies and equipment. widespread installation and acceptance of these technologies could enable the entry of new market participants, such as technology companies, into the interface between aps and its customers and could have other unpredictable effects on aps's business. we are subject to employee workforce factors that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. like most companies in the electric utility industry, our workforce is maturing, with approximately 37% of employees eligible to retire by the end of 2017. although we have undertaken efforts to recruit and train new employees, we face increased competition for talent. we are subject to other employee workforce factors, such as the availability of qualified personnel, the need to negotiate collective bargaining agreements with union employees and potential work stoppages. these or other employee workforce factors could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to information security risks and risks of unauthorized access to our systems. in the regular course of our business, we handle a range of sensitive security, customer and business systems information. a security breach of our information systems such as theft or the inappropriate release of certain types of information, including confidential customer, employee, financial or system operating information, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. despite implementation of security measures, our technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access. our generation, transmission and distribution facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems and physical assets could be targets of such unauthorized access. failures or breaches of our systems could impact the reliability of our generation, transmission and distribution systems and also subject us to financial harm. if our technology systems were to fail or be breached and if we are unable to recover in a timely way, we may not be able to fulfill critical business functions and sensitive confidential data could be compromised, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are subject to laws and rules issued by multiple government agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining the confidentiality of our security, customer and business information. one of these agencies, nerc, has issued comprehensive regulations and standards surrounding the security of our operating systems, and is continually in the process of developing updated and additional requirements with which the utility industry must comply. the increasing promulgation of nerc rules and standards will increase our compliance costs and our exposure to the potential risk of violations of the standards. 33 table of contents while we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and attempted intrusions, none of them to date has been material to the company. the implementation of additional security measures could increase costs and have a material adverse impact on our financial results. we have obtained cyber insurance to provide coverage for a portion of the losses and damages that may result from a security breach of our information technology systems, but such insurance may not cover the total loss or damage caused by a breach. these types of events could also require significant management attention and resources, and could adversely affect pinnacle west's and aps's reputation with customers and the public. financial risks financial market disruptions or new rules or regulations may increase our financing costs or limit our access to various financial markets, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to implement our financial strategy. pinnacle west and aps rely on access to credit markets as a significant source of liquidity and the capital markets for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flow from our operations. we believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets. however, certain market disruptions or rules or regulations may cause our cost of borrowing to increase generally, and/or otherwise adversely affect our ability to access these financial markets. in addition, the credit commitments of our lenders under our bank facilities may not be satisfied or continued beyond current commitment periods for a variety of reasons, including new rules and regulations, periods of financial distress or liquidity issues affecting our lenders or financial markets, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of our liquidity sources and the cost of maintaining these sources. changes in economic conditions, monetary policy, financial regulation or other factors could result in higher interest rates, which would increase interest expense on our existing variable rate debt and new debt we expect to issue in the future, and thus reduce funds available to us for our current plans. additionally, an increase in our leverage, whether as a result of these factors or otherwise, could adversely affect us by: causing a downgrade of our credit ratings; increasing the cost of future debt financing and refinancing; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and requiring us to dedicate an increased portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future investment in our business or other purposes. a downgrade of our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our current ratings are set forth in liquidity and capital resources credit ratings in item 7. we cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. any downgrade or withdrawal could adversely affect the market price of pinnacle west's and aps's securities, limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. we would be required to pay a higher interest rate for future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. in addition, borrowing costs under our existing credit facilities 34 table of contents depend on our credit ratings. a downgrade could also require us to provide additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties. if our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it could severely limit access to the commercial paper market. we note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. investment performance, changing interest rates and other economic factors could decrease the value of our benefit plan assets and nuclear decommissioning trust funds and increase the valuation of our related obligations, resulting in significant additional funding requirements. we are subject to risks related to the provision of employee healthcare benefits and recent healthcare reform legislation. any inability to fully recover these costs in our utility rates would negatively impact our financial condition. we have significant pension plan and other postretirement benefits plan obligations to our employees and retirees, and legal obligations to fund nuclear decommissioning trusts for palo verde. we hold and invest substantial assets in these trusts that are designed to provide funds to pay for certain of these obligations as they arise. declines in market values of the fixed income and equity securities held in these trusts may increase our funding requirements into the related trusts. additionally, the valuation of liabilities related to our pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans are impacted by a discount rate, which is the interest rate used to discount future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. declining interest rates decrease the discount rate, increase the valuation of the plan liabilities and may result in increases in pension and other postretirement benefit costs, cash contributions, regulatory assets, and charges to oci. changes in demographics, including increased number of retirements or changes in life expectancy and changes in other actuarial assumptions, may also result in similar impacts. the minimum contributions required under these plans are impacted by federal legislation. increasing liabilities or otherwise increasing funding requirements under these plans, resulting from adverse changes in legislation or otherwise, could result in significant cash funding obligations that could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we recover most of the pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs and all of the nuclear decommissioning costs in our regulated rates. any inability to fully recover these costs in a timely manner would have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. employee healthcare costs in recent years have continued to rise. the patient protection and affordable care act is expected to result in additional healthcare cost increases. costs and other effects of the legislation, which may include the cost of compliance and potentially increased costs of providing for medical insurance for our employees, cannot be determined with certainty at this time. our cash flow depends on the performance of aps. we derive essentially all of our revenues and earnings from our wholly owned subsidiary, aps. accordingly, our cash flow and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of aps and its distributions to us. aps is a separate and distinct legal entity and has no obligation to make distributions to us. aps's financing agreements may restrict its ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us. in addition, an acc financing order requires aps to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow aps to pay common dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold. the common equity ratio, as defined in the acc order, is total shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long-term debt, including current maturities of long-term debt. 35 table of contents pinnacle west's ability to meet its debt service obligations could be adversely affected because its debt securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of its subsidiaries. because pinnacle west is structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to our debt securities. the assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service their own debt and other obligations. our ability to have the benefit of their cash flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries, would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their creditors have been satisfied. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our quarterly operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; developments generally affecting industries in which we operate; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; favorable or adverse regulatory or legislative developments; our dividend policy; future sales by the company of equity or equity-linked securities; and general domestic and international economic conditions. in addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of arizona law make it difficult for shareholders to change the composition of our board and may discourage takeover attempts. these provisions, which could preclude our shareholders from receiving a change of control premium, include the following: restrictions on our ability to engage in a wide range of business combination transactions with an interested shareholder (generally, any person who owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting power or any of our affiliates or associates) or any affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, unless specific conditions are met; anti-greenmail provisions of arizona law and our bylaws that prohibit us from purchasing shares of our voting stock from beneficial owners of more than 5% of our outstanding shares unless specified conditions are satisfied; the ability of the board of directors to increase the size of the board of directors and fill vacancies on the board of directors, whether resulting from such increase, or from death, resignation, disqualification or otherwise; and 36 table of contents the ability of our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and, with respect to preferred stock, the other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without shareholder approval. while these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 71 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see market and credit risks in item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks. 71 table of contentsrisk factors 27 risk factors in addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results. unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to pinnacle west and its subsidiaries, including aps. regulatory risks our financial condition depends upon aps's ability to recover costs in a timely manner from customers through regulated rates and otherwise execute its business strategy. aps is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence its business, liquidity, results of operations and its ability to fully recover costs from utility customers in a timely manner. the acc regulates aps's retail electric rates and ferc regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services. the profitability of aps is affected by the rates it may charge and the timeliness of recovering costs incurred through its rates. consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of any aps rate proceedings and ancillary matters which may come before the acc and ferc, including in some cases how court challenges to these regulatory decisions are resolved. arizona, like certain other states, has a statute that allows the acc to reopen prior decisions and modify otherwise final orders under certain circumstances. aps is currently pursuing certain activities, such as microgrid investments and construction of renewable facilities intended for specific customers. to date, aps has not received regulatory assurance of cost recovery for such investments. as aps engages in these activities, we will have to demonstrate to regulators that these investments are both prudent and useful in providing electric service to customers. the acc must also approve aps's issuance of securities and any significant transfer or encumbrance of aps property used to provide retail electric service, and must approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between us, aps and our respective affiliates. decisions made by the acc or ferc could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 27 table of contents in a recent appellate challenge to an acc rate decision regarding a water company (referred to in note 3 as "sib"), the arizona court of appeals considered the question of how the acc should determine the fair value of a utility's property, as specified in the arizona constitution, in connection with authorizing the recovery of costs through rate adjustors or surcharges outside of a rate case. the court of appeals reversed the acc's method of finding fair value in that case, and raised questions concerning the relationship between fair value findings and the recovery of capital and certain other utility costs through adjustors. the acc sought review by the arizona supreme court of this decision and aps filed a brief supporting the acc's petition to the arizona supreme court for review of the court of appeals' decision. on february 9, 2016, the arizona supreme court granted review of the decision and oral argument is set for march 22, 2016. if the decision is upheld by the supreme court without modification, certain aps rate adjustors may require modification. this could in turn have an impact on aps's ability to recover certain costs in between rate cases. aps cannot predict the outcome of this matter. aps's ability to conduct its business operations and avoid fines and penalties depends upon compliance with federal, state or local statutes, regulations and acc requirements, and obtaining and maintaining certain regulatory permits, approvals and certificates. aps must comply in good faith with all applicable statutes, regulations, rules, tariffs, and orders of agencies that regulate aps's business, including ferc, nrc, epa, the acc, and state and local governmental agencies. these agencies regulate many aspects of aps's utility operations, including safety and performance, emissions, siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that aps can charge retail and wholesale customers. failure to comply can subject aps to, among other things, fines and penalties. for example, under the energy policy act of 2005, ferc can impose penalties (up to one million dollars per day per violation) for failure to comply with mandatory electric reliability standards. aps is also required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies. aps believes the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that aps's business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. however, changes in regulations or the imposition of new or revised laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we are also unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from pending or future regulatory activities of any of these agencies . on january 28, 2016, an acc commissioner, robert l. burns, sent aps a notice of investigation pursuant to an arizona statute that authorizes a commissioner and his agents to inspect the accounts, books, papers and documents of any public service corporation, and examine under oath any officer, agent or employee of such corporation in relation to the business and affairs of the corporation. the notice states that commissioner burns intends to investigate whether aps has used funds recoverable from ratepayers for political contributions, lobbying, or charitable donations purposes; whether aps's corporate affiliates have made contributions or donations under aps' brand name; and the degree to which aps and pinnacle west are intertwined in terms of organization, management and operations. aps intends to cooperate with this investigation to the full extent that the matter is lawfully authorized, but cannot predict its timing or outcome. the operation of aps's nuclear power plant exposes it to substantial regulatory oversight and potentially significant liabilities and capital expenditures. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose safety-related, security-related and other licensing requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. events at nuclear facilities of other operators or impacting the industry generally may lead the nrc to impose additional requirements and regulations on all nuclear generation facilities, including palo verde. as a result of the march 2011 earthquake and tsunamis that caused significant damage to the fukushima daiichi nuclear power plant in japan, various industry organizations analyzed information from the japan incident and develop action plans for u.s. nuclear power plants. additionally, the nrc performed its own independent review of the events at fukushima daiichi, including a review of the agency's processes and regulations in order to determine whether the agency 28 table of contents should promulgate additional regulations and possibly make more fundamental changes to the nrc's system of regulation. as a result of the fukushima event, the nrc has directed nuclear power plants to implement the first tier recommendations of the nrc's near term task force. in response to these recommendations, palo verde expects to spend approximately $0.5 million for capital enhancements to the plant over the next year in addition to the approximate $125 million that has already been spent on capital enhancements as of december 31, 2015 (aps's share is 29.1%). we cannot predict whether these amounts will increase or whether additional financial and/or operational requirements on palo verde and aps may be imposed. in the event of noncompliance with its requirements, the nrc has the authority to impose a progressively increased inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut-down of a unit or civil penalties, or both, depending upon the nrc's assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. the increased costs resulting from penalties, a heightened level of scrutiny and implementation of plans to achieve compliance with nrc requirements may adversely affect aps's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. aps is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, and changes in, or liabilities under, existing or new laws or regulations may increase aps's cost of operations or impact its business plans. aps is, or may become, subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, discharges of wastewater and streams originating from fly ash and bottom ash handling facilities, solid waste, hazardous waste, and coal combustion products, which consist of bottom ash, fly ash, and air pollution control wastes. these laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations. these laws and regulations generally require aps to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, and other approvals. if there is a delay or failure to obtain any required environmental regulatory approval, or if aps fails to obtain, maintain, or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to additional expenses. in addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in civil liability as a result of government enforcement actions or private claims or criminal penalties. both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. aps cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. environmental clean up. aps has been named as a prp for a superfund site in phoenix, arizona, and it could be named a prp in the future for other environmental clean-up at sites identified by a regulatory body. aps cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up costs. there is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all prps. regional haze. aps has received final rulemakings imposing new requirements on four corners, cholla and the navajo plant. pursuant to these rules, epa and adeq will require these plants to install pollution control equipment that constitutes bart to lessen the impacts of emissions on visibility surrounding the plants. the financial impact of installing and operating the required pollution control equipment could jeopardize the economic viability of these plants or the ability of individual participants to continue their participation in these plants. coal ash. in december 2014, epa issued final regulations governing the handling and disposal of ccr, which are generated as a result of burning coal and consist of, among other things, fly ash and bottom ash. the rule regulates ccr as a non-hazardous waste. aps currently disposes of ccr in ash ponds and dry storage areas at cholla and four corners and in a dry landfill storage area at the navajo plant. to the extent the rule requires the closure or modification of these ccr units or the construction of new ccr units beyond what we currently anticipate, aps would incur significant additional costs for ccr disposal. 29 table of contents ozone national ambient air quality standards. in 2015, epa finalized revisions to the national ambient air quality standards for nitrogen oxides, which set new, more stringent standards intended to protect human health and human welfare. depending on the stringency of the final standards and the implementation requirements, aps may be required to invest in new pollution control technologies and to generate emission offsets for new projects or facility expansions located in ozone nonattainment areas. aps cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to it. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by aps are not fully recoverable from aps's customers, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. due to current or potential future regulations or legislation coupled with trends in natural gas and coal prices, the economics of continuing to own certain resources, particularly coal facilities, may deteriorate, warranting early retirement of those plants, which may result in asset impairments. aps would seek recovery in rates for the book value of any remaining investments in the plants as well as other costs related to early retirement, but cannot predict whether it would obtain such recovery. aps faces physical and operational risks related to climate effects, and potential financial risks resulting from climate change litigation and legislative and regulatory efforts to limit ghg emissions. concern over climate change has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit co2, which is a major byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuel, and other ghg emissions. financial risks - greenhouse gas regulation and the clean power plan. in 2015, epa finalized a rule to limit carbon dioxide emissions from existing power plants. the implementation of this rule within the jurisdictions where aps operates could result in a shift in in-state generation from coal to natural gas and renewable generation. such a substantial change in aps's generation portfolio could require additional capital investments and increased operating costs, and thus have a significant financial impact on the company. see note 10 for additional risks and uncertainties resulting from the clean power plan. physical and operational risks. weather extremes such as drought and high temperature variations are common occurrences in the southwest's desert area, and these are risks that aps considers in the normal course of business in the engineering and construction of its electric system. large increases in ambient temperatures could require evaluation of certain materials used within its system and represent a greater challenge. deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition, which could have a significant adverse impact on aps's business and its results of operations. in 1999, the acc approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in arizona. retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on aps due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital. although some very limited retail competition existed in aps's service area in 1999 and 2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to aps's customers. on may 9, 2013, the acc voted to re-examine the facilitation of a deregulated retail electric market in arizona. the acc subsequently opened a docket for this matter and received comments from a number of interested parties on the considerations involved in establishing retail electric deregulation in the state. one of these considerations is whether various aspects of a deregulated market, including setting utility rates on a market basis, would be consistent with the requirements of the arizona constitution. on september 11, 2013, after receiving legal advice from the acc staff, the acc voted 4-1 to close the current docket and await full arizona constitutional authority 30 table of contents before any further examination of this matter. the motion approved by the acc also included opening one or more new dockets in the future to explore options to offer more rate choices to customers and innovative changes within the existing cost-of-service regulatory model that could include elements of competition. one of these options would be a continuation or expansion of aps's existing ag (alternative generation) - 1 program, which essentially allows up to 200 mw of cumulative load to be served via a buy-through arrangement with competitive suppliers of generation. on november 25, 2015, the acc issued an order approving a request by several ag-1 customers and suppliers to extend the term of the program from july 1, 2016 to the conclusion of aps's next general rate case. the order also authorized aps to defer for future recovery unmitigated unrecovered costs attributable to the program at 90% of the first $10 million per year and at 100% of amounts above $10 million per year. in 2010, the acc issued a decision holding that solar vendors that install and operate solar facilities for non-profit schools and governments pursuant to a specific type of contract that calculates payments based on the energy produced are not public service corporations under the arizona constitution, and are therefore not regulated by the acc. the use of such products by customers within our territory results in some level of competition. aps cannot predict when, and the extent to which, additional service providers will enter aps's service territory, increasing the level of competition in the market. proposals to enable or support retail electric competition are made from time to time in legislative or other forums in arizona. we cannot predict future regulatory or legislative action that might result in increased competition. operational risks aps's results of operations can be adversely affected by various factors impacting demand for electricity. weather conditions. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities. electric power demand is generally a seasonal business. in arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. as a result, aps's overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, aps has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. as a result, unusually mild weather could diminish aps's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. higher temperatures may decrease the snowpack, which might result in lowered soil moisture and an increased threat of forest fires. forest fires could threaten aps's communities and electric transmission lines and facilities. any damage caused as a result of forest fires could negatively impact aps's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. effects of energy conservation measures and distributed energy. the acc has enacted rules regarding energy efficiency that mandate a 22% annual energy savings requirement by 2020. this will likely increase participation by aps customers in energy efficiency and conservation programs and other demand-side management efforts, which in turn will impact the demand for electricity. the rules also include a requirement for the acc to review and address financial disincentives, recovery of fixed costs and the recovery of net lost income/revenue that would result from lower sales due to increased energy efficiency requirements. to that end, the settlement agreement in aps's most recent retail rate case (the 2012 settlement agreement ) includes a mechanism, the lfcr, to address these matters. aps must also meet certain distributed energy requirements. a portion of aps's total renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of distributed energy resources (generally, small 31 table of contents scale renewable technologies located on customers' properties). the distributed energy requirement was 25% of the overall res requirement of 3% in 2011 and increased to 30% of the applicable res requirement for 2012 and subsequent years. customer participation in distributed energy programs would result in lower demand, since customers would be meeting some or all of their own energy needs. reduced demand due to these energy efficiency and distributed energy requirements, unless substantially offset through ratemaking mechanisms, could have a material adverse impact on aps's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. customer and sales growth. for the three years 2013 through 2015, aps's retail customer growth averaged 1.3% per year. we currently expect annual customer growth to average in the range of 2.0-3.0% for 2016 through 2018 based on our assessment of modestly improving economic conditions in arizona. for the three years 2013 through 2015 aps experienced annual increases in retail electricity sales averaging 0.1%, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations. we currently estimate that annual retail electricity sales in kwh will increase on average in the range of 0.5-1.5% during 2016 through 2018, including the effects of customer conservation and energy efficiency and distributed renewable generation initiatives, but excluding the effects of weather variations. actual customer and sales growth may differ from our projections as a result of numerous factors, such as economic conditions, customer growth, usage patterns and energy conservation, impacts of energy efficiency programs and growth in distributed generation, and responses to retail price changes. additionally, recovery of a substantial portion of our fixed costs of providing service is based upon the volumetric amount of our sales. if our customer growth rate does not continue to improve as projected, or if it declines, or if the arizona economy fails to improve, we may be unable to reach our estimated demand level and sales projections, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the operation of power generation facilities and transmission systems involves risks that could result in reduced output or unscheduled outages, which could materially affect aps's results of operations . the operation of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other complications, occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of aps's business. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the larger transmission power grid, and the operation or failure of our facilities could adversely affect the operations of others. if aps's facilities operate below expectations, especially during its peak seasons, it may lose revenue or incur additional expenses, including increased purchased power expenses. concerns over physical security of these assets is also increasing, which may require us to incur additional capital and operating costs to address. damage to certain of our facilities due to vandalism or other deliberate acts could lead to outages or other adverse effects. the inability to successfully develop or acquire generation resources to meet reliability requirements, new or evolving standards or regulations could adversely impact our business. potential changes in regulatory standards, impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, and the need to obtain certain regulatory approvals create uncertainty surrounding our generation portfolio. the current abundance of low, stably priced natural gas, together with environmental and other concerns surrounding coal-fired generation resources, create strategic questions related to the appropriate generation portfolio and fuel diversification mix. in addition, aps is required by the acc to meet certain energy resource portfolio requirements such as the ees and the res. the development of any generation facility is subject to many risks, including risks related to financing, siting, permitting, technology, the construction of sufficient transmission capacity to support these facilities and stresses to generation and transmission resources from intermittent generation characteristics of renewable resources. 32 table of contents aps's inability to adequately develop or acquire the necessary generation resources could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. the lack of access to sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on aps's business and results of operations. assured supplies of water are important for aps's generating plants. water in the southwestern united states is limited, and various parties have made conflicting claims regarding the right to access and use such limited supply of water. both groundwater and surface water in areas important to aps's generating plants have been and are the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings. in addition, the region in which aps's power plants are located is prone to drought conditions, which could potentially affect the plants' water supplies. aps's inability to access sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. we are subject to cybersecurity risks and risks of unauthorized access to our systems. in the regular course of our business, we handle a range of sensitive security, customer and business systems information. a security breach of our information systems such as theft or the inappropriate release of certain types of information, including confidential customer, employee, financial or system operating information, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. despite implementation of security measures, our technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access. our generation, transmission and distribution facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems and physical assets could be targets of such unauthorized access. failures or breaches of our systems could impact the reliability of our generation, transmission and distribution systems and also subject us to financial harm. if our technology systems were to fail or be breached and if we are unable to recover in a timely way, we may not be able to fulfill critical business functions and sensitive confidential data could be compromised, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are subject to laws and rules issued by multiple government agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining the confidentiality of our security, customer and business information. one of these agencies, nerc, has issued comprehensive regulations and standards surrounding the security of our operating systems, and is continually in the process of developing updated and additional requirements with which the utility industry must comply. the increasing promulgation of nerc rules and standards will increase our compliance costs and our exposure to the potential risk of violations of the standards. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and attempted intrusions. the implementation of additional security measures could increase costs and have a material adverse impact on our financial results. we have obtained cyber insurance to provide coverage for a portion of the losses and damages that may result from a security breach of our information technology systems, but such insurance may not cover the total loss or damage caused by a breach. these types of events could also require significant management attention and resources, and could adversely affect pinnacle west's and aps's reputation with customers and the public. 33 table of contents the ownership and operation of power generation and transmission facilities on indian lands could result in uncertainty related to continued leases, easements and rights-of-way, which could have a significant impact on our business. certain aps power plants and portions of the transmission lines that carry power from these plants are located on indian lands pursuant to leases, easements or other rights-of-way that are effective for specified periods. aps is unable to predict the final outcome of pending and future approvals by applicable governing bodies with respect to renewals of these leases, easements and rights-of-way. there are inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health, fuel supply, spent fuel disposal, regulatory and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack. aps has an ownership interest in and operates, on behalf of a group of participants, palo verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the united states. palo verde constitutes approximately 19% of our owned and leased generation capacity. palo verde is subject to environmental, health and financial risks, such as the ability to obtain adequate supplies of nuclear fuel; the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. aps maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. in addition, aps may be required under federal law to pay up to $111 million (but not more than $16.6 million per year) of liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident occurring not only at palo verde, but at any other nuclear power plant in the united states. although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at palo verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit and to promulgate new regulations that could require significant capital expenditures and/or increase operating costs. the use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. aps's operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices. aps is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas and coal to the extent that unhedged positions exist. we have established procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives, including exchange traded futures and options and over-the-counter forwards, options, and swaps. as part of our overall risk management program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and fuels. the changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity. to the extent that commodity markets are illiquid, we may not be able to execute our risk management strategies, which could result in greater unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given time and financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ( dodd-frank act ) contains measures aimed at increasing the transparency and stability of the over-the counter, or otc, derivative markets and preventing excessive speculation. the dodd-frank act could restrict, among other things, trading positions in the energy futures markets, require different collateral or settlement positions, or increase regulatory reporting over derivative positions. based on the provisions included in the dodd-frank act and the implementation of regulations, these changes could, among other things, impact our ability to hedge commodity price and interest rate risk or increase the costs associated with our hedging programs. 34 table of contents we are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties. we use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties. despite the fact that the majority of aps's trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default, which could result in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. changes in technology could create challenges for aps's existing business. alternative energy technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption or emissions are being developed and commercialized, including renewable technologies such as photovoltaic (solar) cells, customer-sited generation, energy storage (batteries), and efficiency technologies. advances in technology and equipment/appliance efficiency could reduce the demand for supply from conventional generation, which could adversely affect aps's business. aps continues to pursue and implement advanced grid technologies, including transmission and distribution system technologies and digital meters enabling two-way communications between the utility and its customers. many of the products and processes resulting from these and other alternative technologies have not yet been widely used or tested on a long-term basis, and their use on large-scale systems is not as established or mature as aps's existing technologies and equipment. widespread installation and acceptance of new technologies could enable the entry of new market participants, such as technology companies, into the interface between aps and its customers and could have other unpredictable effects on aps's business. deployment of renewable energy technologies is expected to continue across the western states and result in a larger portion of the overall energy production coming from these sources. these trends, which have benefited from historical and continuing government subsidies for certain technologies, have the potential to put downward pressure on wholesale power prices throughout the western states which could make aps's existing generating facilities less economical and impact their operational patterns and long-term viability. we are subject to employee workforce factors that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. like most companies in the electric utility industry, our workforce is maturing, with approximately 36% of employees eligible to retire by the end of 2018. although we have undertaken efforts to recruit and train new employees, we face increased competition for talent. we are subject to other employee workforce factors, such as the availability of qualified personnel, the need to negotiate collective bargaining agreements with union employees and potential work stoppages. these or other employee workforce factors could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. financial risks financial market disruptions or new rules or regulations may increase our financing costs or limit our access to various financial markets, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to implement our financial strategy. pinnacle west and aps rely on access to credit markets as a significant source of liquidity and the capital markets for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flow from our operations. we believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets. however, certain market disruptions or rules or regulations may cause our cost of borrowing to increase generally, and/or otherwise adversely affect our ability to access these financial markets. 35 table of contents in addition, the credit commitments of our lenders under our bank facilities may not be satisfied or continued beyond current commitment periods for a variety of reasons, including new rules and regulations, periods of financial distress or liquidity issues affecting our lenders or financial markets, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of our liquidity sources and the cost of maintaining these sources. changes in economic conditions, monetary policy, financial regulation or other factors could result in higher interest rates, which would increase interest expense on our existing variable rate debt and new debt we expect to issue in the future, and thus reduce funds available to us for our current plans. additionally, an increase in our leverage, whether as a result of these factors or otherwise, could adversely affect us by: causing a downgrade of our credit ratings; increasing the cost of future debt financing and refinancing; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and requiring us to dedicate an increased portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future investment in our business or other purposes. a downgrade of our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our current ratings are set forth in liquidity and capital resources credit ratings in item 7. we cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. any downgrade or withdrawal could adversely affect the market price of pinnacle west's and aps's securities, limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. we would be required to pay a higher interest rate for future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. in addition, borrowing costs under our existing credit facilities depend on our credit ratings. a downgrade could also require us to provide additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties. if our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it could severely limit access to the commercial paper market. we note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. investment performance, changing interest rates and other economic factors could decrease the value of our benefit plan assets and nuclear decommissioning trust funds and increase the valuation of our related obligations, resulting in significant additional funding requirements. we are subject to risks related to the provision of employee healthcare benefits and healthcare reform legislation. any inability to fully recover these costs in our utility rates would negatively impact our financial condition. we have significant pension plan and other postretirement benefits plan obligations to our employees and retirees, and legal obligations to fund nuclear decommissioning trusts for palo verde. we hold and invest substantial assets in these trusts that are designed to provide funds to pay for certain of these obligations as they arise. declines in market values of the fixed income and equity securities held in these trusts may increase our funding requirements into the related trusts. additionally, the valuation of liabilities related to our pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans are impacted by a discount rate, which is the interest rate used to discount future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. declining interest rates decrease the discount rate, increase the valuation of the plan liabilities and may result in increases in pension and other 36 table of contents postretirement benefit costs, cash contributions, regulatory assets, and charges to oci. changes in demographics, including increased number of retirements or changes in life expectancy and changes in other actuarial assumptions, may also result in similar impacts. the minimum contributions required under these plans are impacted by federal legislation. increasing liabilities or otherwise increasing funding requirements under these plans, resulting from adverse changes in legislation or otherwise, could result in significant cash funding obligations that could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we recover most of the pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs and all of the nuclear decommissioning costs in our regulated rates. any inability to fully recover these costs in a timely manner would have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. employee healthcare costs in recent years have continued to rise. most of the patient protection and affordable care act provisions have been implemented; however, costs and other effects of the legislation, which may include the cost of compliance and potentially increased costs of providing for medical insurance for our employees, cannot be determined with certainty at this time. our cash flow depends on the performance of aps. we derive essentially all of our revenues and earnings from our wholly owned subsidiary, aps. accordingly, our cash flow and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of aps and its distributions to us. aps is a separate and distinct legal entity and has no obligation to make distributions to us. aps's financing agreements may restrict its ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us. in addition, an acc financing order requires aps to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow aps to pay common dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold. the common equity ratio, as defined in the acc order, is total shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long-term debt, including current maturities of long-term debt. pinnacle west's ability to meet its debt service obligations could be adversely affected because its debt securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of its subsidiaries. because pinnacle west is structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to our debt securities. the assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service their own debt and other obligations. our ability to have the benefit of their cash flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries, would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their creditors have been satisfied. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our quarterly operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; 37 table of contents changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; developments generally affecting industries in which we operate; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; favorable or adverse regulatory or legislative developments; our dividend policy; future sales by the company of equity or equity-linked securities; and general domestic and international economic conditions. in addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of arizona law make it difficult for shareholders to change the composition of our board and may discourage takeover attempts. these provisions, which could preclude our shareholders from receiving a change of control premium, include the following: restrictions on our ability to engage in a wide range of business combination transactions with an interested shareholder (generally, any person who owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting power or any of our affiliates or associates) or any affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, unless specific conditions are met; anti-greenmail provisions of arizona law and our bylaws that prohibit us from purchasing shares of our voting stock from beneficial owners of more than 5% of our outstanding shares unless specified conditions are satisfied; the ability of the board of directors to increase the size of the board of directors and fill vacancies on the board of directors, whether resulting from such increase, or from death, resignation, disqualification or otherwise; and the ability of our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and, with respect to preferred stock, the other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without shareholder approval. while these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see market and credit risks in item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks. 72 table of contentsrisk factors 29 risk factors in addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results. unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to pinnacle west and its subsidiaries, including aps. regulatory risks our financial condition depends upon aps's ability to recover costs in a timely manner from customers through regulated rates and otherwise execute its business strategy. aps is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence its business, liquidity, results of operations and its ability to fully recover costs from utility customers in a timely manner. the acc regulates aps's retail electric rates and ferc regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services. the profitability of aps is affected by the rates it may charge and the timeliness of recovering costs incurred through its rates. consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of any aps rate proceedings and ancillary matters which may come before the acc and ferc, including in some cases how court challenges to these regulatory decisions are resolved. arizona, like certain other states, has a statute that allows the acc to reopen prior decisions and modify otherwise final orders under certain circumstances. aps is currently pursuing certain activities, such as microgrid investments and construction of renewable facilities intended for specific customers. to date, aps has not received regulatory assurance of cost recovery for such investments. as aps engages in these activities, we will have to demonstrate to regulators, as we do with all other capital investments, that these investments are both prudent and useful in providing electric service to customers. the acc must also approve aps's issuance of securities and any significant transfer or encumbrance of aps property used to provide retail electric service, and must approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between us, aps and our respective affiliates. decisions made by the acc or ferc could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. aps's ability to conduct its business operations and avoid fines and penalties depends upon compliance with federal, state or local statutes, regulations and acc requirements, and obtaining and maintaining certain regulatory permits, approvals and certificates. aps must comply in good faith with all applicable statutes, regulations, rules, tariffs, and orders of agencies that regulate aps's business, including ferc, nrc, epa, the acc, and state and local governmental agencies. these agencies regulate many aspects of aps's utility operations, including safety and performance, emissions, siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that aps can charge retail and wholesale customers. failure to comply can subject aps to, among other things, fines and penalties. for example, under the energy policy act of 2005, ferc can impose penalties (up to one million dollars per day per violation) for failure to comply with mandatory electric reliability standards. aps is also required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies. aps believes the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that aps's business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. however, changes in regulations or the imposition of new or revised laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we are also unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from pending or future regulatory activities of any of these agencies . 29 table of contents the operation of aps's nuclear power plant exposes it to substantial regulatory oversight and potentially significant liabilities and capital expenditures. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose safety-related, security-related and other licensing requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. events at nuclear facilities of other operators or impacting the industry generally may lead the nrc to impose additional requirements and regulations on all nuclear generation facilities, including palo verde. in the event of noncompliance with its requirements, the nrc has the authority to impose a progressively increased inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut-down of a unit or civil penalties, or both, depending upon the nrc's assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. the increased costs resulting from penalties, a heightened level of scrutiny and implementation of plans to achieve compliance with nrc requirements may adversely affect aps's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. aps is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, and changes in, or liabilities under, existing or new laws or regulations may increase aps's cost of operations or impact its business plans. aps is, or may become, subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations, including air emissions of conventional pollutants and greenhouse gases, water quality, discharges of wastewater and streams originating from fly ash and bottom ash handling facilities, solid waste, hazardous waste, and coal combustion products, which consist of bottom ash, fly ash, and air pollution control wastes. these laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations. these laws and regulations generally require aps to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, and other approvals. if there is a delay or failure to obtain any required environmental regulatory approval, or if aps fails to obtain, maintain, or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to additional expenses. in addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in civil liability as a result of government enforcement actions or private claims or criminal penalties. both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. aps cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. environmental clean up. aps has been named as a prp for a superfund site in phoenix, arizona, and it could be named a prp in the future for other environmental clean-up at sites identified by a regulatory body. aps cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up costs. there is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all prps. regional haze. aps has received final rulemakings imposing new requirements on four corners, cholla and the navajo plant. pursuant to these rules, epa and adeq will require these plants to install pollution control equipment that constitutes bart to lessen the impacts of emissions on visibility surrounding the plants. the financial impact of installing and operating the required pollution control equipment could jeopardize the economic viability of these plants or the ability of individual participants to continue their participation in these plants. coal ash. in december 2014, epa issued final regulations governing the handling and disposal of ccr, which are generated as a result of burning coal and consist of, among other things, fly ash and bottom ash. the rule regulates ccr as a non-hazardous waste. aps currently disposes of ccr in ash ponds and dry storage areas at cholla and four corners and in a dry landfill storage area at the navajo plant. to the extent 30 table of contents the rule requires the closure or modification of these ccr units or the construction of new ccr units beyond what we currently anticipate, aps would incur significant additional costs for ccr disposal. ozone national ambient air quality standards. in 2015, epa finalized revisions to the national ambient air quality standards for nitrogen oxides, which set new, more stringent standards intended to protect human health and human welfare. depending on the final attainment designations for the new standards and the state implementation requirements, aps may be required to invest in new pollution control technologies and to generate emission offsets for new projects or facility expansions located in ozone nonattainment areas. aps cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to it. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by aps are not fully recoverable from aps's customers, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. due to current or potential future regulations or legislation coupled with trends in natural gas and coal prices, the economics of continuing to own certain resources, particularly coal facilities, may deteriorate, warranting early retirement of those plants, which may result in asset impairments. aps would seek recovery in rates for the book value of any remaining investments in the plants as well as other costs related to early retirement, but cannot predict whether it would obtain such recovery. aps faces potential financial risks resulting from climate change litigation and legislative and regulatory efforts to limit ghg emissions, as well as physical and operational risks related to climate effects. concern over climate change has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit co2, which is a major byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuel, and other ghg emissions. potential financial risks - greenhouse gas regulation, the clean power plan and potential litigation. in 2015, epa finalized a rule to limit carbon dioxide emissions from existing power plants. the implementation of this rule within the jurisdictions where aps operates could result in a shift in in-state generation from coal to natural gas and renewable generation. such a substantial change in aps's generation portfolio could require additional capital investments and increased operating costs, and thus have a significant financial impact on the company. see note 10 for additional risks and uncertainties resulting from the clean power plan. depending on the final outcome of the pending judicial review of the clean power plan, or any related legislative or regulatory activity, the utility industry may face alternative efforts from private parties seeking to establish alternative ghg emission limitations from power plants. alternative ghg emission limitations may arise from litigation under either federal or state common laws or citizen suit provisions of federal environmental statutes that attempt to force federal agency rulemaking or imposing direct facility emission limitations. such lawsuits may also seek damages from harm alleged to have resulted from power plant ghg emissions. physical and operational risks. weather extremes such as drought and high temperature variations are common occurrences in the southwest's desert area, and these are risks that aps considers in the normal course of business in the engineering and construction of its electric system. large increases in ambient temperatures could require evaluation of certain materials used within its system and represent a greater challenge. 31 table of contents co-owners of our jointly owned generation facilities may have unaligned goals and positions due to the effects of legislation, regulations, economic conditions or changes in our industry, which could have a significant impact on our ability to continue operations of such facilities. aps owns certain of our power plants jointly with other owners with varying ownership interests in such facilities. changes in the nature of our industry and the economic viability of certain plants, including impacts resulting from types and availability of other resources, fuel costs, legislation and regulation, together with timing considerations related to expiration of leases or other agreements for such facilities, could result in unaligned positions among co-owners. such differences in the co-owners' willingness or ability to continue their participation could ultimately lead to disagreements among the parties as to how and whether to continue operation of such plants, which could lead to eventual shut down of units or facilities and uncertainty related to the resulting cost recovery of such assets. deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition, which could have a significant adverse impact on aps's business and its results of operations. in 1999, the acc approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in arizona. retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on aps due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital. although some very limited retail competition existed in aps's service area in 1999 and 2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to aps's customers. on may 9, 2013, the acc voted to re-examine the facilitation of a deregulated retail electric market in arizona. the acc subsequently opened a docket for this matter and received comments from a number of interested parties on the considerations involved in establishing retail electric deregulation in the state. one of these considerations is whether various aspects of a deregulated market, including setting utility rates on a market basis, would be consistent with the requirements of the arizona constitution. on september 11, 2013, after receiving legal advice from the acc staff, the acc voted 4-1 to close the current docket and await full arizona constitutional authority before any further examination of this matter. the motion approved by the acc also included opening one or more new dockets in the future to explore options to offer more rate choices to customers and innovative changes within the existing cost-of-service regulatory model that could include elements of competition. one of these options would be a continuation or expansion of aps's existing ag (alternative generation) - 1 pilot program, which essentially allows up to 200 mw of cumulative load to be served via a buy-through arrangement with competitive suppliers of generation. on november 25, 2015, the acc issued an order approving a request by several ag-1 customers and suppliers to extend the term of the program from july 1, 2016 to the conclusion of aps's pending general rate case. the order also authorized aps to defer for future recovery unmitigated unrecovered costs attributable to the program at 90% of the first $10 million per year and at 100% of amounts above $10 million per year. proposals to enable or support retail electric competition may be made from time to time through ballot initiatives, legislative or other forums in arizona. we cannot predict future regulatory or legislative action that might result in increased competition. changes in tax legislation or regulation may affect our financial results. we are subject to taxation by various taxing authorities at the federal, state and local levels. legislation or regulation could be enacted by any of these governmental authorities which could affect the company's tax positions. the prospects for broad-based federal tax reform have increased due to the results of the 2016 elections. any such reform may impact the company's effective tax rate, cash taxes paid and other financial results such as earnings per share, gross revenues and cash flows. we cannot predict the timing or extent of 32 table of contents such tax-related developments which, absent appropriate regulatory treatment, could have a negative impact on our financial results. operational risks aps's results of operations can be adversely affected by various factors impacting demand for electricity. weather conditions. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities. electric power demand is generally a seasonal business. in arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. as a result, aps's overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, aps has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. as a result, unusually mild weather could diminish aps's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. higher temperatures may decrease the snowpack, which might result in lowered soil moisture and an increased threat of forest fires. forest fires could threaten aps's communities and electric transmission lines and facilities. any damage caused as a result of forest fires could negatively impact aps's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. effects of energy conservation measures and distributed energy resources. the acc has enacted rules regarding energy efficiency that mandate a 22% cumulative annual energy savings requirement by 2020. this will likely increase participation by aps customers in energy efficiency and conservation programs and other demand-side management efforts, which in turn will impact the demand for electricity. the rules also include a requirement for the acc to review and address financial disincentives, recovery of fixed costs and the recovery of net lost income/revenue that would result from lower sales due to increased energy efficiency requirements. to that end, the settlement agreement in aps's most recent retail rate case (the 2012 settlement agreement ) includes a mechanism, the lfcr, to address these matters. aps must also meet certain distributed energy requirements. a portion of aps's total renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of distributed energy resources (generally, small scale renewable technologies located on customers' properties). the distributed energy requirement was 25% of the overall res requirement of 3% in 2011 and increased to 30% of the applicable res requirement for 2012 and subsequent years. customer participation in distributed energy programs would result in lower demand, since customers would be meeting some of their own energy needs. in addition to these rules and requirements, energy efficiency technologies and distributed energy resources continue to evolve, which may have similar impacts on demand for electricity. reduced demand due to these energy efficiency requirements, distributed energy requirements and other emerging technologies, unless substantially offset through ratemaking mechanisms, could have a material adverse impact on aps's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. actual and projected customer and sales growth. retail customers in aps's service territory increased 1.4% for the year ended december 31, 2016 compared with the prior year. for the three years 2014 through 2016, aps's retail customer growth averaged 1.3% per year. we currently project annual customer growth to be 1.5-2.5% for 2017 and to average in the range of 2.0-3.0% for 2017 through 2019 based on our assessment of modestly improving economic conditions in arizona. retail electricity sales in kwh, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations, were flat for the year ended december 31, 2016 compared with the prior year. improving economic conditions and customer growth and an additional day of sales due to leap year were equally offset by energy savings driven by 33 table of contents customer conservation, energy efficiency and distributed renewable generation initiatives. for the three years 2014 through 2016, aps experienced annual increases in retail electricity sales averaging 0.2%, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations. we currently project that annual retail electricity sales in kwh will increase in the range of 0-1.0% for 2017 and increase on average in the range of 0.5-1.5% during 2017 through 2019, including the effects of customer conservation and energy efficiency and distributed renewable generation initiatives, but excluding the effects of weather variations. actual customer and sales growth may differ from our projections as a result of numerous factors, such as economic conditions, customer growth, usage patterns and energy conservation, impacts of energy efficiency programs and growth in distributed renewable generation, and responses to retail price changes. additionally, recovery of a substantial portion of our fixed costs of providing service is based upon the volumetric amount of our sales. if our customer growth rate does not continue to improve as projected, or if we experience acceleration of expected effects of customer conservation, energy efficiency or distributed renewable generation initiatives, we may be unable to reach our estimated sales projections, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the operation of power generation facilities and transmission systems involves risks that could result in reduced output or unscheduled outages, which could materially affect aps's results of operations . the operation of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other complications, occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of aps's business. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the larger transmission power grid, and the operation or failure of our facilities could adversely affect the operations of others. concerns over physical security of these assets include damage to certain of our facilities due to vandalism or other deliberate acts that could lead to outages or other adverse effects. if aps's facilities operate below expectations, especially during its peak seasons, it may lose revenue or incur additional expenses, including increased purchased power expenses. the inability to successfully develop or acquire generation resources to meet reliability requirements and other new or evolving standards or regulations could adversely impact our business. potential changes in regulatory standards, impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, and the need to obtain various regulatory approvals create uncertainty surrounding our generation portfolio. the current abundance of low, stably priced natural gas, together with environmental and other concerns surrounding coal-fired generation resources, create strategic challenges as to the appropriate generation portfolio and fuel diversification mix. in addition, aps is required by the acc to meet certain energy resource portfolio requirements, including those related to renewables development and energy efficiency measures. the development of any generation facility is subject to many risks, including those related to financing, siting, permitting, new and evolving technology, the construction of sufficient transmission capacity to support these facilities and stresses to generation and transmission resources from the intermittent generation characteristics of renewable resources. aps's inability to adequately develop or acquire the necessary generation resources could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. in expressing concerns about the environmental and climate-related impacts from continued extraction, transportation, delivery and combustion of fossil fuels, environmental advocacy groups and other third parties have in recent years undertaken greater efforts to oppose the permitting and construction of fossil fuel 34 table of contents infrastructure projects. these efforts may increase in scope and frequency depending on a number of variables, including the future course of federal environmental regulation and the increasing financial resources devoted to these opposition activities. aps cannot predict the effect that any such opposition may have on our ability to develop and construct fossil fuel infrastructure projects in the future. the lack of access to sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on aps's business and results of operations. assured supplies of water are important for aps's generating plants. water in the southwestern united states is limited, and various parties have made conflicting claims regarding the right to access and use such limited supply of water. both groundwater and surface water in areas important to aps's generating plants have been and are the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings. in addition, the region in which aps's power plants are located is prone to drought conditions, which could potentially affect the plants' water supplies. aps's inability to access sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. we are subject to cybersecurity risks and risks of unauthorized access to our systems. in the regular course of our business, we handle a range of sensitive security, customer and business systems information. a security breach of our information systems such as theft or the inappropriate release of certain types of information, including confidential customer, employee, financial or system operating information, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. despite implementation of security measures, our technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access. our generation, transmission and distribution facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems and physical assets could be targets of such unauthorized access. failures or breaches of our systems could impact the reliability of our generation, transmission and distribution systems and also subject us to financial harm. if our technology systems were to fail or be breached and if we are unable to recover in a timely way, we may not be able to fulfill critical business functions and sensitive confidential data could be compromised, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are subject to laws and rules issued by multiple government agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining the confidentiality of our security, customer and business information. one of these agencies, nerc, has issued comprehensive regulations and standards surrounding the security of bulk power systems, and is continually in the process of developing updated and additional requirements with which the utility industry must comply. the increasing promulgation of nerc rules and standards will increase our compliance costs and our exposure to the potential risk of violations of the standards, which includes potential financial penalties. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, threats and attempted intrusions to our information technology systems and we could experience such threats and attempted intrusions to our operational control systems. the implementation of additional security measures could increase costs and have a material adverse impact on our financial results. we have obtained cyber insurance to provide coverage for a portion of the losses and damages that may result from a security breach of our information technology systems, but such insurance may not cover the total loss or damage caused by a breach. these types of events could also require significant management attention and resources, and could adversely affect pinnacle west's and aps's reputation with customers and the public. 35 table of contents the ownership and operation of power generation and transmission facilities on indian lands could result in uncertainty related to continued leases, easements and rights-of-way, which could have a significant impact on our business. certain aps power plants and portions of certain aps transmission lines are located on indian lands pursuant to leases, easements or other rights-of-way that are effective for specified periods. aps is unable to predict the final outcomes of pending and future approvals by the applicable sovereign governing bodies with respect to renewals of these leases, easements and rights-of-way. there are inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health, fuel supply, spent fuel disposal, regulatory and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack. aps has an ownership interest in and operates, on behalf of a group of participants, palo verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the united states. palo verde constitutes approximately 18% of our owned and leased generation capacity. palo verde is subject to environmental, health and financial risks, such as the ability to obtain adequate supplies of nuclear fuel; the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. aps maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. in addition, aps may be required under federal law to pay up to $111 million (but not more than $16.6 million per year) of liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident occurring not only at palo verde, but at any other nuclear power plant in the united states. although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at palo verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit and to promulgate new regulations that could require significant capital expenditures and/or increase operating costs. the use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. aps's operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices. aps is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas and coal to the extent that unhedged positions exist. we have established procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives, including exchange traded futures and options and over-the-counter forwards, options, and swaps. as part of our overall risk management program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and fuels. the changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity. to the extent that commodity markets are illiquid, we may not be able to execute our risk management strategies, which could result in greater unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given time and financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ( dodd-frank act ) contains measures aimed at increasing the transparency and stability of the over-the counter, or otc, derivative markets and preventing excessive speculation. the dodd-frank act could restrict, among other things, trading positions in the energy futures markets, require different collateral or settlement positions, or increase regulatory reporting over derivative positions. based on the provisions included in the dodd-frank act and the implementation of regulations, these changes could, among other things, impact our ability to hedge commodity price and interest rate risk or increase the costs associated with our hedging programs. 36 table of contents we are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties. we use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties. despite the fact that the majority of aps's trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default, which could result in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. changes in technology could create challenges for aps's existing business. alternative energy technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption or emissions are being developed and commercialized, including renewable technologies such as photovoltaic (solar) cells, customer-sited generation, energy storage (batteries), and efficiency technologies. advances in technology and equipment/appliance efficiency could reduce the demand for supply from conventional generation and increase the complexity of managing aps's information technology and power system operations, which could adversely affect aps's business. aps continues to pursue and implement advanced grid technologies, including transmission and distribution system technologies and digital meters enabling two-way communications between the utility and its customers. many of the products and processes resulting from these and other alternative technologies have not yet been widely used or tested on a long-term basis, and their use on large-scale systems is not as established or mature as aps's existing technologies and equipment. the implementation of new and additional technologies adds complexity to the information technology and operational technology systems, which could require additional infrastructure and resources. widespread installation and acceptance of new technologies could also enable the entry of new market participants, such as technology companies, into the interface between aps and its customers and could have other unpredictable effects on aps's traditional business model. deployment of renewable energy technologies is expected to continue across the western states and result in a larger portion of the overall energy production coming from these sources. these trends, which have benefited from historical and continuing government support for certain technologies, have the potential to put downward pressure on wholesale power prices throughout the western states which could make aps's existing generating facilities less economical and impact their operational patterns and long-term viability. we are subject to employee workforce factors that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. like most companies in the electric utility industry, our workforce is maturing, with approximately 35% of employees eligible to retire by the end of 2019. although we have undertaken efforts to recruit and train new employees, we face increased competition for talent. we are subject to other employee workforce factors, such as the availability of qualified personnel, the need to negotiate collective bargaining agreements with union employees and potential work stoppages. these or other employee workforce factors could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. 37 table of contents financial risks financial market disruptions or new rules or regulations may increase our financing costs or limit our access to various financial markets, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to implement our financial strategy. pinnacle west and aps rely on access to credit markets as a significant source of liquidity and the capital markets for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flow from our operations. we believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets. however, certain market disruptions or rules or regulations may cause our cost of borrowing to increase generally, and/or otherwise adversely affect our ability to access these financial markets. in addition, the credit commitments of our lenders under our bank facilities may not be satisfied or continued beyond current commitment periods for a variety of reasons, including new rules and regulations, periods of financial distress or liquidity issues affecting our lenders or financial markets, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of our liquidity sources and the cost of maintaining these sources. changes in economic conditions, monetary policy, financial regulation or other factors could result in higher interest rates, which would increase interest expense on our existing variable rate debt and new debt we expect to issue in the future, and thus reduce funds available to us for our current plans. additionally, an increase in our leverage, whether as a result of these factors or otherwise, could adversely affect us by: causing a downgrade of our credit ratings; increasing the cost of future debt financing and refinancing; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and requiring us to dedicate an increased portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future investment in our business or other purposes. a downgrade of our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our current ratings are set forth in liquidity and capital resources credit ratings in item 7. we cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. any downgrade or withdrawal could adversely affect the market price of pinnacle west's and aps's securities, limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. we would be required to pay a higher interest rate for future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. in addition, borrowing costs under our existing credit facilities depend on our credit ratings. a downgrade could also require us to provide additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties. if our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it could severely limit access to the commercial paper market. we note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 38 table of contents investment performance, changing interest rates and other economic, social and political factors could decrease the value of our benefit plan assets and nuclear decommissioning trust funds or increase the valuation of our related obligations, resulting in significant additional funding requirements. we are subject to risks related to the provision of employee healthcare benefits and healthcare reform legislation. any inability to fully recover these costs in our utility rates would negatively impact our financial condition. we have significant pension plan and other postretirement benefits plan obligations to our employees and retirees, and legal obligations to fund nuclear decommissioning trusts for palo verde. we hold and invest substantial assets in these trusts that are designed to provide funds to pay for certain of these obligations as they arise. declines in market values of the fixed income and equity securities held in these trusts may increase our funding requirements into the related trusts. additionally, the valuation of liabilities related to our pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans are impacted by a discount rate, which is the interest rate used to discount future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. declining interest rates decrease the discount rate, increase the valuation of the plan liabilities and may result in increases in pension and other postretirement benefit costs, cash contributions, regulatory assets, and charges to oci. changes in demographics, including increased number of retirements or changes in life expectancy and changes in other actuarial assumptions, may also result in similar impacts. the minimum contributions required under these plans are impacted by federal legislation. increasing liabilities or otherwise increasing funding requirements under these plans, resulting from adverse changes in legislation or otherwise, could result in significant cash funding obligations that could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we recover most of the pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs and all of the nuclear decommissioning costs in our regulated rates. any inability to fully recover these costs in a timely manner would have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. employee healthcare costs in recent years have continued to rise. while most of the patient protection and affordable care act provisions have been implemented, changes to the act or other potential legislation could increase costs of providing medical insurance for our employees. any potential changes and resulting cost impacts cannot be determined with certainty at this time. our cash flow depends on the performance of aps. we derive essentially all of our revenues and earnings from our wholly owned subsidiary, aps. accordingly, our cash flow and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of aps and its distributions to us. aps is a separate and distinct legal entity and has no obligation to make distributions to us. aps's financing agreements may restrict its ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us. in addition, an acc financing order requires aps to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow aps to pay common dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold. the common equity ratio, as defined in the acc order, is total shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long-term debt, including current maturities of long-term debt. 39 table of contents pinnacle west's ability to meet its debt service obligations could be adversely affected because its debt securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of its subsidiaries. because pinnacle west is structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to our debt securities. the assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service their own debt and other obligations. our ability to have the benefit of their cash flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries, would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their creditors have been satisfied. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our quarterly operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; developments generally affecting industries in which we operate; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; favorable or adverse regulatory or legislative developments; our dividend policy; future sales by the company of equity or equity-linked securities; and general domestic and international economic conditions. in addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of arizona law make it difficult for shareholders to change the composition of our board and may discourage takeover attempts. these provisions, which could preclude our shareholders from receiving a change of control premium, include the following: restrictions on our ability to engage in a wide range of business combination transactions with an interested shareholder (generally, any person who owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting power or any of our affiliates or associates) or any affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, unless specific conditions are met; anti-greenmail provisions of arizona law and our bylaws that prohibit us from purchasing shares of our voting stock from beneficial owners of more than 5% of our outstanding shares unless specified conditions are satisfied; the ability of the board of directors to increase the size of the board of directors and fill vacancies on the board of directors, whether resulting from such increase, or from death, resignation, disqualification or otherwise; and 40 table of contents the ability of our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and, with respect to preferred stock, the other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without shareholder approval. while these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 77 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see market and credit risks in item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks. 77 table of contentsrisk factors 28 risk factors in addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results. unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to pinnacle west and its subsidiaries, including aps. regulatory risks our financial condition depends upon aps's ability to recover costs in a timely manner from customers through regulated rates and otherwise execute its business strategy. aps is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence its business, liquidity and results of operations and its ability to fully recover costs from utility customers in a timely manner. the acc regulates aps's retail electric rates and ferc regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services. the profitability of aps is affected by the rates it may charge and the timeliness of recovering costs incurred through its rates. consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of any aps rate proceedings and ancillary matters which may come before the acc and ferc, including in some cases how court challenges to these regulatory decisions are resolved. arizona, like certain other states, has a statute that allows the acc to reopen prior decisions and modify otherwise final orders under certain circumstances. the acc must also approve aps's issuance of securities and any significant transfer or encumbrance of aps property used to provide retail electric service, and must approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between us, aps and our respective affiliates. decisions made by the acc or ferc could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. aps's ability to conduct its business operations and avoid fines and penalties depends upon compliance with federal, state and local statutes, regulations and acc requirements, and obtaining and maintaining certain regulatory permits, approvals and certificates. aps must comply in good faith with all applicable statutes, regulations, rules, tariffs, and orders of agencies that regulate aps's business, including ferc, nrc, epa, the acc, and state and local governmental agencies. these agencies regulate many aspects of aps's utility operations, including safety and performance, emissions, siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that aps can charge retail and wholesale customers. failure to comply can subject aps to, among other things, fines and penalties. for example, under the energy policy act of 2005, ferc can impose penalties (approximately $1.2 million dollars per day per violation) for failure to comply with mandatory electric reliability standards. aps is also required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies. aps believes the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that aps's business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. however, changes in regulations or the imposition of new or revised laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we are also unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from pending or future regulatory activities of any of these agencies . the operation of aps's nuclear power plant exposes it to substantial regulatory oversight and potentially significant liabilities and capital expenditures. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose safety-related, security-related and other licensing requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. events at nuclear facilities of other 28 table of contents operators or impacting the industry generally may lead the nrc to impose additional requirements and regulations on all nuclear generation facilities, including palo verde. in the event of noncompliance with its requirements, the nrc has the authority to impose a progressively increased inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut-down of a unit or civil penalties, or both, depending upon the nrc's assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. the increased costs resulting from penalties, a heightened level of scrutiny and implementation of plans to achieve compliance with nrc requirements may adversely affect aps's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. aps is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, and changes in, or liabilities under, existing or new laws or regulations may increase aps's cost of operations or impact its business plans. aps is, or may become, subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations, including air emissions of conventional pollutants and greenhouse gases, water quality, discharges of wastewater and streams originating from fly ash and bottom ash handling facilities, solid waste, hazardous waste, and coal combustion products, which consist of bottom ash, fly ash, and air pollution control wastes. these laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations. these laws and regulations generally require aps to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, and other approvals. if there is a delay or failure to obtain any required environmental regulatory approval, or if aps fails to obtain, maintain, or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to additional expenses. in addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in civil liability as a result of government enforcement actions or private claims or criminal penalties. both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. aps cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. environmental clean up. aps has been named as a prp for a superfund site in phoenix, arizona, and it could be named a prp in the future for other environmental clean-up at sites identified by a regulatory body. aps cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up costs. there is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all prps. coal ash. in december 2014, epa issued final regulations governing the handling and disposal of ccr, which are generated as a result of burning coal and consist of, among other things, fly ash and bottom ash. the rule regulates ccr as a non-hazardous waste. aps currently disposes of ccr in ash ponds and dry storage areas at cholla and four corners and in a dry landfill storage area at the navajo plant. to the extent the rule requires the closure or modification of these ccr units or the construction of new ccr units beyond what we currently anticipate, aps would incur significant additional costs for ccr disposal. ozone national ambient air quality standards. in 2015, epa finalized revisions to the national ambient air quality standards for nitrogen oxides, which set new, more stringent standards intended to protect human health and human welfare. depending on the final attainment designations for the new standards and the state implementation requirements, aps may be required to invest in new pollution control technologies and to generate emission offsets for new projects or facility expansions located in ozone nonattainment areas. aps cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to it. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by aps are not fully recoverable from aps's customers, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. due to current or potential future regulations or 29 table of contents legislation coupled with trends in natural gas and coal prices, the economics of continuing to own certain resources, particularly coal facilities, may deteriorate, warranting early retirement of those plants, which may result in asset impairments. aps would seek recovery in rates for the book value of any remaining investments in the plants as well as other costs related to early retirement, but cannot predict whether it would obtain such recovery. aps faces potential financial risks resulting from climate change litigation and legislative and regulatory efforts to limit ghg emissions, as well as physical and operational risks related to climate effects. concern over climate change has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit co 2 , which is a major byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuel, and other ghg emissions. potential financial risks - greenhouse gas regulation, the clean power plan and potential litigation. in 2015, epa finalized a rule to limit carbon dioxide emissions from existing power plants. the implementation of this rule within the jurisdictions where aps operates could result in a shift in in-state generation from coal to natural gas and renewable generation. such a substantial change in aps's generation portfolio could require additional capital investments and increased operating costs, and thus have a significant financial impact on the company. epa took action in october 2017 to potentially repeal these regulations and is currently taking public comments on whether or how epa could take action to replace the clean power plan with a new set of regulations. depending on the final outcome of a pending judicial review of the clean power plan, along with related regulatory activity to repeal or replace these regulations, the utility industry may face alternative efforts from private parties seeking to establish alternative ghg emission limitations from power plants. alternative ghg emission limitations may arise from litigation under either federal or state common laws or citizen suit provisions of federal environmental statutes that attempt to force federal agency rulemaking or imposing direct facility emission limitations. such lawsuits may also seek damages from harm alleged to have resulted from power plant ghg emissions. physical and operational risks. weather extremes such as drought and high temperature variations are common occurrences in the southwest's desert area, and these are risks that aps considers in the normal course of business in the engineering and construction of its electric system. large increases in ambient temperatures could require evaluation of certain materials used within its system and represent a greater challenge. co-owners of our jointly owned generation facilities may have unaligned goals and positions due to the effects of legislation, regulations, economic conditions or changes in our industry, which could have a significant impact on our ability to continue operations of such facilities. aps owns certain of our power plants jointly with other owners with varying ownership interests in such facilities. changes in the nature of our industry and the economic viability of certain plants, including impacts resulting from types and availability of other resources, fuel costs, legislation and regulation, together with timing considerations related to expiration of leases or other agreements for such facilities, could result in unaligned positions among co-owners. such differences in the co-owners' willingness or ability to continue their participation could ultimately lead to disagreements among the parties as to how and whether to continue operation of such plants, which could lead to eventual shut down of units or facilities and uncertainty related to the resulting cost recovery of such assets. see note 3 for a discussion of the co-owners' plans to cease operations of the navajo plant and the related risks associated with aps's continued recovery of its remaining investment in the plant. 30 table of contents deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition, which could have a significant adverse impact on aps's business and its results of operations. in 1999, the acc approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in arizona. retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on aps due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital. although some very limited retail competition existed in aps's service area in 1999 and 2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to aps's customers. on may 9, 2013, the acc voted to re-examine the facilitation of a deregulated retail electric market in arizona. the acc subsequently opened a docket for this matter and received comments from a number of interested parties on the considerations involved in establishing retail electric deregulation in the state. one of these considerations is whether various aspects of a deregulated market, including setting utility rates on a market basis, would be consistent with the requirements of the arizona constitution. on september 11, 2013, after receiving legal advice from the acc staff, the acc voted 4-1 to close the current docket and await full arizona constitutional authority before any further examination of this matter. the motion approved by the acc also included opening one or more new dockets in the future to explore options to offer more rate choices to customers and innovative changes within the existing cost-of-service regulatory model that could include elements of competition. one of these options would be a continuation or expansion of aps's existing ag (alternative generation)-x program, which essentially allows up to 200 mw of cumulative load to be served via a buy-through arrangement with competitive suppliers of generation. the ag-x program was approved by the acc as part of the 2017 settlement agreement. proposals to enable or support retail electric competition may be made from time to time through ballot initiatives, legislative action or other forums in arizona. we cannot predict future regulatory or legislative action that might result in increased competition. operational risks aps's results of operations can be adversely affected by various factors impacting demand for electricity. weather conditions. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities. electric power demand is generally a seasonal business. in arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. as a result, aps's overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, aps has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. as a result, unusually mild weather could diminish aps's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. higher temperatures may decrease the snowpack, which might result in lowered soil moisture and an increased threat of forest fires. forest fires could threaten aps's communities and electric transmission lines and facilities. any damage caused as a result of forest fires could negatively impact aps's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. effects of energy conservation measures and distributed energy resources. the acc has enacted rules regarding energy efficiency that mandate a 22% cumulative annual energy savings requirement by 2020. this will likely increase participation by aps customers in energy efficiency and conservation programs and other demand-side management efforts, which in turn will impact the demand for electricity. the rules also include a requirement for the acc to review and address financial disincentives, recovery of fixed costs and 31 table of contents the recovery of net lost income/revenue that would result from lower sales due to increased energy efficiency requirements. to that end, the lfcr is designed to address these matters. aps must also meet certain distributed energy requirements. a portion of aps's total renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of distributed energy resources (generally, small scale renewable technologies located on customers' properties). the distributed energy requirement was 25% of the overall res requirement of 3% in 2011 and increased to 30% of the applicable res requirement for 2012 and subsequent years. customer participation in distributed energy programs would result in lower demand, since customers would be meeting some of their own energy needs. in addition to these rules and requirements, energy efficiency technologies and distributed energy resources continue to evolve, which may have similar impacts on demand for electricity. reduced demand due to these energy efficiency requirements, distributed energy requirements and other emerging technologies, unless substantially offset through ratemaking mechanisms, could have a material adverse impact on aps's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. actual and projected customer and sales growth. retail customers in aps's service territory increased 1.8% for the year ended december 31, 2017 compared with the prior year. for the three years 2015 through 2017, aps's retail customer growth averaged 1.5% per year. we currently project annual customer growth to be 1.5-2.5% for 2018 and to average in the range of 2-3% for 2018 through 2020 based on our assessment of modestly improving economic conditions in arizona. retail electricity sales in kwh, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations, decreased 0.3% for the year ended december 31, 2017 compared with the prior year. improving economic conditions and customer growth were more than offset by energy savings driven by customer conservation, energy efficiency, distributed renewable generation initiatives and one fewer day of sales due to the leap year in 2016. for the three years 2015 through 2017, aps experienced annual increases in retail electricity sales averaging 0.1%, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations. we currently project that annual retail electricity sales in kwh will increase in the range of 0.5-1.5% for 2018 and increase on average in the range of 0.5-1.5% during 2018 through 2020, including the effects of customer conservation and energy efficiency and distributed renewable generation initiatives, but excluding the effects of weather variations. a slower recovery of the arizona economy or acceleration of the expected effects of customer conservation, energy efficiency or distributed renewable generation initiatives could further impact these estimates. actual customer and sales growth may differ from our projections as a result of numerous factors, such as economic conditions, customer growth, usage patterns and energy conservation, impacts of energy efficiency programs and growth in distributed renewable generation, and responses to retail price changes. additionally, recovery of a substantial portion of our fixed costs of providing service is based upon the volumetric amount of our sales. if our customer growth rate does not continue to improve as projected, or if we experience acceleration of expected effects of customer conservation, energy efficiency or distributed renewable generation initiatives, we may be unable to reach our estimated sales projections, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 32 table of contents the operation of power generation facilities and transmission systems involves risks that could result in reduced output or unscheduled outages, which could materially affect aps's results of operations . the operation of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other complications, occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of aps's business. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the larger transmission power grid, and the operation or failure of our facilities could adversely affect the operations of others. concerns over physical security of these assets could include damage to certain of our facilities due to vandalism or other deliberate acts that could lead to outages or other adverse effects. if aps's facilities operate below expectations, especially during its peak seasons, it may lose revenue or incur additional expenses, including increased purchased power expenses. the inability to successfully develop or acquire generation resources to meet reliability requirements and other new or evolving standards or regulations could adversely impact our business. potential changes in regulatory standards, impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, and the need to obtain various regulatory approvals create uncertainty surrounding our generation portfolio. the current abundance of low, stably priced natural gas, together with environmental and other concerns surrounding coal-fired generation resources, create strategic challenges as to the appropriate generation portfolio and fuel diversification mix. in addition, aps is required by the acc to meet certain energy resource portfolio requirements, including those related to renewables development and energy efficiency measures. the development of any generation facility is subject to many risks, including those related to financing, siting, permitting, new and evolving technology, the construction of sufficient transmission capacity to support these facilities and stresses to generation and transmission resources from the intermittent generation characteristics of renewable resources. aps's inability to adequately develop or acquire the necessary generation resources could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. in expressing concerns about the environmental and climate-related impacts from continued extraction, transportation, delivery and combustion of fossil fuels, environmental advocacy groups and other third parties have in recent years undertaken greater efforts to oppose the permitting and construction of fossil fuel infrastructure projects. these efforts may increase in scope and frequency depending on a number of variables, including the future course of federal environmental regulation and the increasing financial resources devoted to these opposition activities. aps cannot predict the effect that any such opposition may have on our ability to develop and construct fossil fuel infrastructure projects in the future. the lack of access to sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on aps's business and results of operations. assured supplies of water are important for aps's generating plants. water in the southwestern united states is limited, and various parties have made conflicting claims regarding the right to access and use such limited supply of water. both groundwater and surface water in areas important to aps's generating plants have been and are the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings. in addition, the region in which aps's power plants are located is prone to drought conditions, which could potentially affect the plants' water supplies. aps's inability to access sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 33 table of contents we are subject to cybersecurity risks and risks of unauthorized access to our systems. we operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. in the regular course of our business, we handle a range of sensitive security, customer and business systems information. there appears to be an increasing level of activity, sophistication and maturity of threat actors, in particular nation state actors, that seek to exploit potential vulnerabilities in the electric utility industry and wish to disrupt the u.s. bulk power, transmission and distribution system. our information technology systems, generation (including our palo verde nuclear facility), transmission and distribution facilities, and other infrastructure facilities and systems and physical assets could be targets of unauthorized access and are critical areas of cyber protection for us. despite implementation of security measures, our technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access. if a significant cybersecurity event or breach were to occur, we may not be able to fulfill critical business functions and we could (i) experience property damage, disruptions to our business, theft of or unauthorized access to customer, employee, financial or system operation information or other information; (ii) experience loss of revenue or incur significant costs for repair, remediation and breach notification, and increased capital and operating costs to implement increased security measures and (iii) be subject to increased regulation, litigation and reputational damage. these types of events could also require significant management attention and resources, and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are subject to laws and rules issued by multiple government agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining the confidentiality of our security, customer and business information. one of these agencies, nerc, has issued comprehensive regulations and standards surrounding the security of bulk power systems, and is continually in the process of developing updated and additional requirements with which the utility industry must comply. the nrc also has issued regulations and standards related to the protection of critical digital assets at commercial nuclear power plants. the increasing promulgation of nerc and nrc rules and standards will increase our compliance costs and our exposure to the potential risk of violations of the standards. experiencing a cybersecurity incident could cause us to be non-compliant with applicable laws and regulations, such as those promulgated by nerc and the nrc, or contracts that require us to securely maintain confidential data, causing us to incur costs related to legal claims or proceedings and regulatory fines or penalties. the risk of these system-related events and security breaches occurring continues to intensify. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, threats and attempted intrusions to our information technology systems and we could experience such threats and attempted intrusions to our operational control systems. to date we have not experienced a material breach or disruption to our network or information systems or our service operations. however, as such attacks continue to increase in sophistication and frequency, we may be unable to prevent all such attacks from being successful in the future. we have obtained cyber insurance to provide coverage for a portion of the losses and damages that may result from a security breach of our information technology systems, but such insurance is subject to a number of exclusions and may not cover the total loss or damage caused by a breach. the market for cybersecurity insurance is relatively new and coverage available for cybersecurity events may evolve as the industry matures. in the future, adequate insurance may not be available at rates that we believe are reasonable, and the costs of responding to and recovering from a cyber incident may not be covered by insurance or recoverable in rates. 34 table of contents the ownership and operation of power generation and transmission facilities on indian lands could result in uncertainty related to continued leases, easements and rights-of-way, which could have a significant impact on our business. certain aps power plants and portions of certain aps transmission lines are located on indian lands pursuant to leases, easements or other rights-of-way that are effective for specified periods. aps is unable to predict the final outcomes of pending and future approvals by the applicable sovereign governing bodies with respect to renewals of these leases, easements and rights-of-way. there are inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health, fuel supply, spent fuel disposal, regulatory and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack. aps has an ownership interest in and operates, on behalf of a group of participants, palo verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the united states. palo verde constitutes approximately 18% of our owned and leased generation capacity. palo verde is subject to environmental, health and financial risks, such as the ability to obtain adequate supplies of nuclear fuel; the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. aps maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. in addition, aps may be required under federal law to pay up to $111 million (but not more than $16.6 million per year) of liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident occurring not only at palo verde, but at any other nuclear power plant in the united states. although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at palo verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit and to promulgate new regulations that could require significant capital expenditures and/or increase operating costs. the use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. aps's operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices. aps is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas and coal to the extent that unhedged positions exist. we have established procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives, including exchange traded futures and over-the-counter forwards, options, and swaps. as part of our overall risk management program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and fuels. the changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity. to the extent that commodity markets are illiquid, we may not be able to execute our risk management strategies, which could result in greater unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given time and financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ( dodd-frank act ) contains measures aimed at increasing the transparency and stability of the over-the counter, or otc, derivative markets and preventing excessive speculation. the dodd-frank act could restrict, among other things, trading positions in the energy futures markets, require different collateral or settlement positions, or increase regulatory reporting over derivative positions. based on the provisions included in the dodd-frank act and the implementation of regulations, these changes could, among other things, impact our ability to hedge commodity price and interest rate risk or increase the costs associated with our hedging programs. 35 table of contents we are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties. we use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties. despite the fact that the majority of aps's trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default, which could result in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. changes in technology could create challenges for aps's existing business. alternative energy technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption or emissions are being developed and commercialized, including renewable technologies such as photovoltaic (solar) cells, customer-sited generation, energy storage (batteries), and efficiency technologies. advances in technology and equipment/appliance efficiency could reduce the demand for supply from conventional generation and increase the complexity of managing aps's information technology and power system operations, which could adversely affect aps's business. aps continues to pursue and implement advanced grid technologies, including transmission and distribution system technologies and digital meters enabling two-way communications between the utility and its customers. many of the products and processes resulting from these and other alternative technologies have not yet been widely used or tested on a long-term basis, and their use on large-scale systems is not as established or mature as aps's existing technologies and equipment. the implementation of new and additional technologies adds complexity to our information technology and operational technology systems, which could require additional infrastructure and resources. widespread installation and acceptance of new technologies could also enable the entry of new market participants, such as technology companies, into the interface between aps and its customers and could have other unpredictable effects on aps's traditional business model. deployment of renewable energy technologies is expected to continue across the western states and result in a larger portion of the overall energy production coming from these sources. these trends, which have benefited from historical and continuing government support for certain technologies, have the potential to put downward pressure on wholesale power prices throughout the western states which could make aps's existing generating facilities less economical and impact their operational patterns and long-term viability. we are subject to employee workforce factors that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. like many companies in the electric utility industry, our workforce is maturing, with approximately 30% of employees eligible to retire by the end of 2020. although we have undertaken efforts to recruit, train and develop new employees, we face increased competition for talent. we are subject to other employee workforce factors, such as the availability of qualified personnel, the need to negotiate collective bargaining agreements with union employees and potential work stoppages. these or other employee workforce factors could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. 36 table of contents financial risks financial market disruptions or new rules or regulations may increase our financing costs or limit our access to various financial markets, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to implement our financial strategy. pinnacle west and aps rely on access to credit markets as a significant source of liquidity and the capital markets for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flow from our operations. we believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets. however, certain market disruptions or rules or regulations may cause our cost of borrowing to increase generally, and/or otherwise adversely affect our ability to access these financial markets. in addition, the credit commitments of our lenders under our bank facilities may not be satisfied or continued beyond current commitment periods for a variety of reasons, including new rules and regulations, periods of financial distress or liquidity issues affecting our lenders or financial markets, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of our liquidity sources and the cost of maintaining these sources. changes in economic conditions, monetary policy, financial regulation or other factors could result in higher interest rates, which would increase interest expense on our existing variable rate debt and new debt we expect to issue in the future, and thus reduce funds available to us for our current plans. additionally, an increase in our leverage, whether as a result of these factors or otherwise, could adversely affect us by: causing a downgrade of our credit ratings; increasing the cost of future debt financing and refinancing; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and requiring us to dedicate an increased portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future investment in our business or other purposes. a downgrade of our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our current ratings are set forth in liquidity and capital resources credit ratings in item 7. we cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. any downgrade or withdrawal could adversely affect the market price of pinnacle west's and aps's securities, limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. we would be required to pay a higher interest rate for future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. in addition, borrowing costs under our existing credit facilities depend on our credit ratings. a downgrade could also require us to provide additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties. if our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it could severely limit access to the commercial paper market. we note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 37 table of contents investment performance, changing interest rates and other economic, social and political factors could decrease the value of our benefit plan assets and nuclear decommissioning trust funds or increase the valuation of our related obligations, resulting in significant additional funding requirements. we are also subject to risks related to the provision of employee healthcare benefits and healthcare reform legislation. any inability to fully recover these costs in our utility rates would negatively impact our financial condition. we have significant pension plan and other postretirement benefits plan obligations to our employees and retirees, and legal obligations to fund our pension trust and nuclear decommissioning trusts for palo verde. we hold and invest substantial assets in these trusts that are designed to provide funds to pay for certain of these obligations as they arise. declines in market values of the fixed income and equity securities held in these trusts may increase our funding requirements into the related trusts. additionally, the valuation of liabilities related to our pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans are impacted by a discount rate, which is the interest rate used to discount future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. declining interest rates decrease the discount rate, increase the valuation of the plan liabilities and may result in increases in pension and other postretirement benefit costs, cash contributions, regulatory assets, and charges to oci. changes in demographics, including increased number of retirements or changes in life expectancy and changes in other actuarial assumptions, may also result in similar impacts. the minimum contributions required under these plans are impacted by federal legislation and related regulations. increasing liabilities or otherwise increasing funding requirements under these plans, resulting from adverse changes in legislation or otherwise, could result in significant cash funding obligations that could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we recover most of the pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs and all of the nuclear decommissioning costs in our regulated rates. any inability to fully recover these costs in a timely manner would have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. employee healthcare costs in recent years have continued to rise. while most of the patient protection and affordable care act provisions have been implemented, changes to that act or other potential legislation could increase costs of providing medical insurance for our employees. any potential changes and resulting cost impacts cannot be determined with certainty at this time. our cash flow depends on the performance of aps. we derive essentially all of our revenues and earnings from our wholly-owned subsidiary, aps. accordingly, our cash flow and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of aps and its distributions to us. aps is a separate and distinct legal entity and has no obligation to make distributions to us. aps's financing agreements may restrict its ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us. in addition, an acc financing order requires aps to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow aps to pay common dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold. the common equity ratio, as defined in the acc order, is total shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long-term debt, including current maturities of long-term debt. 38 table of contents pinnacle west's ability to meet its debt service obligations could be adversely affected because its debt securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of its subsidiaries. because pinnacle west is structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to our debt securities. the assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service their own debt and other obligations. our ability to have the benefit of their cash flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries, would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their creditors have been satisfied. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our quarterly operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; developments generally affecting industries in which we operate; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; favorable or adverse regulatory or legislative developments; our dividend policy; future sales by the company of equity or equity-linked securities; and general domestic and international economic conditions. in addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of arizona law make it difficult for shareholders to change the composition of our board and may discourage takeover attempts. these provisions, which could preclude our shareholders from receiving a change of control premium, include the following: restrictions on our ability to engage in a wide range of business combination transactions with an interested shareholder (generally, any person who owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting power or any of our affiliates or associates) or any affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, unless specific conditions are met; anti-greenmail provisions of arizona law and our bylaws that prohibit us from purchasing shares of our voting stock from beneficial owners of more than 5% of our outstanding shares unless specified conditions are satisfied; the ability of the board of directors to increase the size of the board of directors and fill vacancies on the board of directors, whether resulting from such increase, or from death, resignation, disqualification or otherwise; and 39 table of contents the ability of our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and, with respect to preferred stock, the other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without shareholder approval. while these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. our financial results could be adversely affected if 4ca is unable to reach resolution with ntec regarding the future ownership of 4ca's 7% interest in four corners and ntec is unwilling or unable to satisfy its contractual obligations. on july 6, 2016, 4ca purchased el paso's 7% interest in four corners. ntec had the option to purchase the 7% interest within a certain timeframe pursuant to an option granted to ntec. on december 29, 2015, ntec provided notice of its intent to exercise the option. the purchase did not occur during the originally contemplated timeframe. the parties are currently in discussions as to the future of the option transaction. the 2016 coal supply agreement contains alternate pricing terms for the 7% interest in the event ntec does not purchase the interest. at this time, since ntec has not yet purchased the 7% interest, the alternate pricing provisions are applicable to 4ca as the holder of the 7% interest. these terms include a formula under which ntec must make certain payments to 4ca for reimbursement of operations and maintenance costs and a specified rate of return, offset by revenue generated by 4ca's power sales. such payments are due to 4ca at the end of each calendar year. a $10 million payment was due to 4ca at december 31, 2017, which ntec satisfied by directing to 4ca a prepayment from aps of a portion of a future mine reclamation obligation. the balance of the amount under this formula at december 31, 2017 is approximately $20 million, which is due to 4ca at december 31, 2018. in future years there may be similar payments due from ntec to 4ca under this formula. 4ca believes ntec should continue to satisfy its contractual obligations related to these payments; however, if ntec fails to meet its contractual obligations when due, 4ca will consider appropriate measures. if ntec is unwilling or unable to ultimately assume ownership of the 7% interest of four corners on terms acceptable to 4ca, and if ntec is unwilling or unable to satisfy its contractual obligations related to payments owed to 4ca under the 2016 coal supply agreement, 4ca will consider potential impacts to the company's financial statements, which may negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 4ca and ntec are in active discussions regarding these matters and cannot predict the outcome of those discussions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 81 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see market and credit risks in item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks. 81 table of contentsrisk factors 29 risk factors in addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results. unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to pinnacle west and its subsidiaries, including aps. regulatory risks our financial condition depends upon aps's ability to recover costs in a timely manner from customers through regulated rates and otherwise execute its business strategy. aps is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence its business, liquidity and results of operations and its ability to fully recover costs from utility customers in a timely manner. the acc regulates aps's retail electric rates and ferc regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services. the profitability of aps is affected by the rates it may charge and the timeliness of recovering costs incurred through its rates. consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of any aps rate proceedings and ancillary matters which may come before the acc and ferc, including in some cases how court challenges to these regulatory decisions are resolved. arizona, like certain other states, has a statute that allows the acc to reopen prior decisions and modify otherwise final orders under certain circumstances. 29 table of contents the acc must also approve aps's issuance of securities and any significant transfer or encumbrance of aps property used to provide retail electric service, and must approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between us, aps and our respective affiliates. decisions made by the acc or ferc could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. aps's ability to conduct its business operations and avoid fines and penalties depends upon compliance with federal, state and local statutes, regulations and acc requirements, and obtaining and maintaining certain regulatory permits, approvals and certificates. aps must comply in good faith with all applicable statutes, regulations, rules, tariffs, and orders of agencies that regulate aps's business, including ferc, nrc, epa, the acc, and state and local governmental agencies. these agencies regulate many aspects of aps's utility operations, including safety and performance, emissions, siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that aps can charge retail and wholesale customers. failure to comply can subject aps to, among other things, fines and penalties. for example, under the energy policy act of 2005, ferc can impose penalties (approximately $1.2 million dollars per day per violation) for failure to comply with mandatory electric reliability standards. aps is also required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies. aps believes the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that aps's business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. however, changes in regulations or the imposition of new or revised laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we are also unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from pending or future regulatory activities of any of these agencies . the operation of aps's nuclear power plant exposes it to substantial regulatory oversight and potentially significant liabilities and capital expenditures. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose safety-related, security-related and other licensing requirements for the operation of nuclear generating facilities. events at nuclear facilities of other operators or impacting the industry generally may lead the nrc to impose additional requirements and regulations on all nuclear generating facilities, including palo verde. in the event of noncompliance with its requirements, the nrc has the authority to impose a progressively increased inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut-down of a unit or civil penalties, or both, depending upon the nrc's assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. the increased costs resulting from penalties, a heightened level of scrutiny and implementation of plans to achieve compliance with nrc requirements may adversely affect aps's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. aps is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, and changes in, or liabilities under, existing or new laws or regulations may increase aps's cost of operations or impact its business plans. aps is, or may become, subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations, including air emissions of conventional pollutants and greenhouse gases, water quality, discharges of wastewater and waste streams originating from fly ash and bottom ash handling facilities, solid waste, hazardous waste, and coal combustion products, which consist of bottom ash, fly ash, and air pollution control wastes. these laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations. these laws and regulations generally require aps to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, and other approvals. if there is a delay or failure to obtain any required environmental regulatory approval, or if aps fails to obtain, maintain, or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to additional expenses. in addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in civil liability as a result of government 30 table of contents enforcement actions or private claims or criminal penalties. both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. aps cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. environmental clean up. aps has been named as a prp for a superfund site in phoenix, arizona, and it could be named a prp in the future for other environmental clean-up at sites identified by a regulatory body. aps cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up costs. there is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all prps. coal ash. in december 2014, epa issued final regulations governing the handling and disposal of ccr, which are generated as a result of burning coal and consist of, among other things, fly ash and bottom ash. the rule regulates ccr as a non-hazardous waste. aps currently disposes of ccr in ash ponds and dry storage areas at cholla and four corners and in a dry landfill storage area at the navajo plant. to the extent the rule requires the closure or modification of these ccr units or the construction of new ccr units beyond what we currently anticipate, aps would incur significant additional costs for ccr disposal. in addition, the rule may also require corrective action to address releases from ccr disposal units or the presence of ccr constituents within groundwater near ccr disposal units above certain regulatory thresholds. ozone national ambient air quality standards. in 2015, epa finalized revisions to the national ambient air quality standards for nitrogen oxides, which set new, more stringent standards intended to protect human health and human welfare. depending on the final attainment designations for the new standards and the state implementation requirements, aps may be required to invest in new pollution control technologies and to generate emission offsets for new projects or facility expansions located in ozone nonattainment areas. aps cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to it. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by aps are not fully recoverable from aps's customers, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. due to current or potential future regulations or legislation coupled with trends in natural gas and coal prices, the economics of continuing to own certain resources, particularly coal facilities, may deteriorate, warranting early retirement of those plants, which may result in asset impairments. aps would seek recovery in rates for the book value of any remaining investments in the plants as well as other costs related to early retirement, but cannot predict whether it would obtain such recovery. aps faces potential financial risks resulting from climate change litigation and legislative and regulatory efforts to limit ghg emissions, as well as physical and operational risks related to climate effects. concern over climate change has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit co 2 , which is a major byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuel, and other ghg emissions. potential financial risks - greenhouse gas regulation, the clean power plan and potential litigation. in 2015, epa finalized a rule to limit carbon dioxide emissions from existing power plants. the implementation of this rule within the jurisdictions where aps operates could result in a shift in in-state generation from coal to natural gas and renewable generation. such a substantial change in aps's generation portfolio could require additional capital investments and increased operating costs, and thus have a significant financial impact on the company. epa took action in october 2017 to repeal these regulations and in august 2018 epa proposed the affordable clean energy rule to replace the clean power plan with a new set of regulations. 31 table of contents depending on the final outcome of a pending judicial review of the clean power plan, along with related regulatory activity to repeal or replace these regulations, the utility industry may face alternative efforts from private parties seeking to establish alternative ghg emission limitations from power plants. alternative ghg emission limitations may arise from litigation under either federal or state common laws or citizen suit provisions of federal environmental statutes that attempt to force federal agency rulemaking or imposing direct facility emission limitations. such lawsuits may also seek damages from harm alleged to have resulted from power plant ghg emissions. physical and operational risks. weather extremes such as drought and high temperature variations are common occurrences in the southwest's desert area, and these are risks that aps considers in the normal course of business in the engineering and construction of its electric system. large increases in ambient temperatures could require evaluation of certain materials used within its system and represent a greater challenge. co-owners of our jointly owned generation facilities may have unaligned goals and positions due to the effects of legislation, regulations, economic conditions or changes in our industry, which could have a significant impact on our ability to continue operations of such facilities. aps owns certain of our power plants jointly with other owners with varying ownership interests in such facilities. changes in the nature of our industry and the economic viability of certain plants, including impacts resulting from types and availability of other resources, fuel costs, legislation and regulation, together with timing considerations related to expiration of leases or other agreements for such facilities, could result in unaligned positions among co-owners. such differences in the co-owners' willingness or ability to continue their participation could ultimately lead to disagreements among the parties as to how and whether to continue operation of such plants, which could lead to eventual shut down of units or facilities and uncertainty related to the resulting cost recovery of such assets. see note 3 for a discussion of the co-owners' plans to cease operations of the navajo plant and the related risks associated with aps's continued recovery of its remaining investment in the plant. deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition, which could have a significant adverse impact on aps's business and its results of operations. in 1999, the acc approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in arizona. retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on aps due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital. although some very limited retail competition existed in aps's service area in 1999 and 2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to aps's customers. this is in large part due to a 2004 arizona court of appeals decision that found critical components of the acc's rules to be violative of the arizona constitution. the ruling also voided the operating authority of all the competitive providers previously authorized by the acc. on may 9, 2013, the acc voted to re-examine the facilitation of a deregulated retail electric market in arizona. the acc subsequently opened a docket for this matter and received comments from a number of interested parties on the considerations involved in establishing retail electric deregulation in the state. one of these considerations is whether various aspects of a deregulated market, including setting utility rates on a market basis, would be consistent with the requirements of the arizona constitution. on september 11, 2013, after receiving legal advice from the acc staff, the acc voted 4-1 to close the current docket and await full arizona constitutional authority before any further examination of this matter. the motion approved by the acc also included opening one or more new dockets in the future to explore options to offer more rate choices to customers and innovative changes within the existing cost-of-service regulatory model that could include elements of competition. one of these options would be a continuation or expansion of aps's existing ag (alternative generation)-x program, which essentially allows up to 200 mw of cumulative load to be served via a buy- 32 table of contents through arrangement with competitive suppliers of generation. the ag-x program was approved by the acc as part of the 2017 settlement agreement. in november 2018, the acc voted to again re-examine retail competition. interested parties were asked to submit written comments, which are still being submitted. in addition, proposals to enable or support retail electric competition may be made from time to time through ballot initiatives, legislative action or other forums in arizona. the acc held one workshop on retail competition in december 2018 and is planning at least one more workshop on the issue in 2019. we cannot predict future regulatory or legislative action that might result in increased competition. proposals to change policy in arizona or other states made through ballot initiatives or referenda may increase the company's cost of operations or impact its business plans. in arizona and other states, a person or organization may file a ballot initiative or referendum with the arizona secretary of state or other applicable state agency and, if a sufficient number of verifiable signatures are presented, the initiative or referendum may be placed on the ballot for the public to vote on the matter. ballot initiatives and referenda may relate to any matter, including policy and regulation related to the electric industry, and may change statutes or the state constitution in ways that could impact arizona utility customers, the arizona economy and the company. some ballot initiatives and referenda are drafted in an unclear manner and their potential industry and economic impact can be subject to varied and conflicting interpretations. we may oppose certain initiatives or referenda (including those that could result in negative impacts to our customers, the state or the company) via the electoral process, litigation, traditional legislative mechanisms, agency rulemaking or otherwise, which could result in significant costs to the company. the passage of certain initiatives or referenda could result in laws and regulations that impact our business plans and have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. operational risks aps's results of operations can be adversely affected by various factors impacting demand for electricity. weather conditions. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities. electric power demand is generally a seasonal business. in arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. as a result, aps's overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, aps has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. as a result, unusually mild weather could diminish aps's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. higher temperatures may decrease the snowpack, which might result in lowered soil moisture and an increased threat of forest fires. forest fires could threaten aps's communities and electric transmission lines and facilities. any damage caused as a result of forest fires could negatively impact aps's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. effects of energy conservation measures and distributed energy resources. the acc has enacted rules regarding energy efficiency that mandate a 22% cumulative annual energy savings requirement by 2020. this will likely increase participation by aps customers in energy efficiency and conservation programs and other demand-side management efforts, which in turn will impact the demand for electricity. the rules also include a requirement for the acc to review and address financial disincentives, recovery of fixed costs and the recovery of net lost income/revenue that would result from lower sales due to increased energy efficiency requirements. to that end, the lfcr is designed to address these matters. 33 table of contents aps must also meet certain distributed energy requirements. a portion of aps's total renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of distributed energy resources (generally, small scale renewable technologies located on customers' properties). the distributed energy requirement was 25% of the overall res requirement of 3% in 2011 and increased to 30% of the applicable res requirement for 2012 and subsequent years. customer participation in distributed energy programs would result in lower demand, since customers would be meeting some of their own energy needs. in addition to these rules and requirements, energy efficiency technologies and distributed energy resources continue to evolve, which may have similar impacts on demand for electricity. reduced demand due to these energy efficiency requirements, distributed energy requirements and other emerging technologies, unless substantially offset through ratemaking mechanisms, could have a material adverse impact on aps's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. actual and projected customer and sales growth. retail customers in aps's service territory increased 1.7% for the year ended december 31, 2018 compared with the prior year. for the three years 2016 through 2018, aps's retail customer growth averaged 1.6% per year. we currently project annual customer growth to be 1.5 - 2.5% for 2019 and to average in the range of 1.5 - 2.5% for 2019 through 2021 based on our assessment of improving economic conditions in arizona. retail electricity sales in kwh, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations, increased 0.1% for the year ended december 31, 2018 compared with the prior year. improving economic conditions and customer growth were offset by energy savings driven by customer conservation, energy efficiency, and distributed renewable generation initiatives. for the three years 2016 through 2018, annual retail electricity sales were about flat, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations. we currently project that annual retail electricity sales in kwh will increase in the range of 1.0 - 2.0% for 2019 and increase on average in the range of 1.5 - 2.5% during 2019 through 2021, including the effects of customer conservation and energy efficiency and distributed renewable generation initiatives, but excluding the effects of weather variations. a slower recovery of the arizona economy or acceleration of the expected effects of customer conservation, energy efficiency or distributed renewable generation initiatives could further impact these estimates. actual customer and sales growth may differ from our projections as a result of numerous factors, such as economic conditions, customer growth, usage patterns and energy conservation, impacts of energy efficiency programs and growth in distributed renewable generation, and responses to retail price changes. additionally, recovery of a substantial portion of our fixed costs of providing service is based upon the volumetric amount of our sales. if our customer growth rate does not continue to improve as projected, or if we experience acceleration of expected effects of customer conservation, energy efficiency or distributed renewable generation initiatives, we may be unable to reach our estimated sales projections, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the operation of power generation facilities and transmission systems involves risks that could result in reduced output or unscheduled outages, which could materially affect aps's results of operations . the operation of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other complications, occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of aps's business. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the larger transmission power grid, and the operation or failure of our facilities could adversely affect the operations of others. concerns over physical security of these assets could include damage to certain of our facilities due to vandalism or other 34 table of contents deliberate acts that could lead to outages or other adverse effects. if aps's facilities operate below expectations, especially during its peak seasons, it may lose revenue or incur additional expenses, including increased purchased power expenses. the impact of wildfires could negatively affect aps's results of operations. wildfires have the potential to affect the communities that aps serves and aps's vast network of electric transmission lines and facilities. the potential likelihood of wildfires has increased due to many of the same weather impacts existing in arizona as those that led to the recent wildfires in northern california. while we proactively take steps to mitigate wildfire risk in the areas of our electrical assets, given aps's expansive service territory, wildfire risk is always present. aps could be held liable for damages incurred as a result of wildfires that were caused by or enhanced due to aps's negligence. the arizona liability standard is different from that of california, which generally imposes liability for resulting damages without regard to fault. any damage caused to our assets, loss of service to our customers or liability imposed as a result of wildfires could negatively impact aps's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the inability to successfully develop or acquire generation resources to meet reliability requirements and other new or evolving standards or regulations could adversely impact our business. potential changes in regulatory standards, impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, and the need to obtain various regulatory approvals create uncertainty surrounding our generation portfolio. the current abundance of low, stably priced natural gas, together with environmental and other concerns surrounding coal-fired generation resources, create strategic challenges as to the appropriate generation portfolio and fuel diversification mix. in addition, aps is required by the acc to meet certain energy resource portfolio requirements, including those related to renewables development and energy efficiency measures. the development of any generation facility is subject to many risks, including those related to financing, siting, permitting, new and evolving technology, and the construction of sufficient transmission capacity to support these facilities. aps's inability to adequately develop or acquire the necessary generation resources could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. in expressing concerns about the environmental and climate-related impacts from continued extraction, transportation, delivery and combustion of fossil fuels, environmental advocacy groups and other third parties have in recent years undertaken greater efforts to oppose the permitting and construction of fossil fuel infrastructure projects. these efforts may increase in scope and frequency depending on a number of variables, including the future course of federal environmental regulation and the increasing financial resources devoted to these opposition activities. aps cannot predict the effect that any such opposition may have on our ability to develop and construct fossil fuel infrastructure projects in the future. the lack of access to sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on aps's business and results of operations. assured supplies of water are important for aps's generating plants. water in the southwestern united states is limited, and various parties have made conflicting claims regarding the right to access and use such limited supply of water. both groundwater and surface water in areas important to aps's generating plants have been and are the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings. in addition, the region in which aps's power plants are located is prone to drought conditions, which could potentially affect the plants' water supplies. aps's inability to access sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 35 table of contents we are subject to cybersecurity risks and risks of unauthorized access to our systems. we operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. in the regular course of our business, we handle a range of sensitive security, customer and business systems information. there appears to be an increasing level of activity, sophistication and maturity of threat actors, in particular nation state actors, that seek to exploit potential vulnerabilities in the electric utility industry and wish to disrupt the u.s. bulk power, transmission and distribution system. our information technology systems, generation (including our palo verde nuclear facility), transmission and distribution facilities, and other infrastructure facilities and systems and physical assets could be targets of unauthorized access and are critical areas of cyber protection for us. despite implementation of security measures, our technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access. if a significant cybersecurity event or breach were to occur, we may not be able to fulfill critical business functions and we could (i) experience property damage, disruptions to our business, theft of or unauthorized access to customer, employee, financial or system operation information or other information; (ii) experience loss of revenue or incur significant costs for repair, remediation and breach notification, and increased capital and operating costs to implement increased security measures; and (iii) be subject to increased regulation, litigation and reputational damage. these types of events could also require significant management attention and resources, and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are subject to laws and rules issued by multiple government agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining the confidentiality of our security, customer and business information. one of these agencies, nerc, has issued comprehensive regulations and standards surrounding the security of bulk power systems, and is continually in the process of developing updated and additional requirements with which the utility industry must comply. the nrc also has issued regulations and standards related to the protection of critical digital assets at commercial nuclear power plants. the increasing promulgation of nerc and nrc rules and standards will increase our compliance costs and our exposure to the potential risk of violations of the standards. experiencing a cybersecurity incident could cause us to be non-compliant with applicable laws and regulations, such as those promulgated by nerc and the nrc, or contracts that require us to securely maintain confidential data, causing us to incur costs related to legal claims or proceedings and regulatory fines or penalties. the risk of these system-related events and security breaches occurring continues to intensify. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, threats and attempted intrusions to our information technology systems and we could experience such threats and attempted intrusions to our operational control systems. to date we have not experienced a material breach or disruption to our network or information systems or our service operations. however, as such attacks continue to increase in sophistication and frequency, we may be unable to prevent all such attacks from being successful in the future. we have obtained cyber insurance to provide coverage for a portion of the losses and damages that may result from a security breach of our information technology systems, but such insurance is subject to a number of exclusions and may not cover the total loss or damage caused by a breach. the market for cybersecurity insurance is relatively new and coverage available for cybersecurity events may evolve as the industry matures. in the future, adequate insurance may not be available at rates that we believe are reasonable, and the costs of responding to and recovering from a cyber incident may not be covered by insurance or recoverable in rates. 36 table of contents the ownership and operation of power generation and transmission facilities on indian lands could result in uncertainty related to continued leases, easements and rights-of-way, which could have a significant impact on our business. certain aps power plants and portions of certain aps transmission lines are located on indian lands pursuant to leases, easements or other rights-of-way that are effective for specified periods. aps is unable to predict the final outcomes of pending and future approvals by the applicable sovereign governing bodies with respect to renewals of these leases, easements and rights-of-way. there are inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health, fuel supply, spent fuel disposal, regulatory and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack. aps has an ownership interest in and operates, on behalf of a group of participants, palo verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the united states. palo verde constitutes approximately 18% of our owned and leased generation capacity. palo verde is subject to environmental, health and financial risks, such as the ability to obtain adequate supplies of nuclear fuel; the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. aps maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. in addition, aps may be required under federal law to pay up to $120.1 million (but not more than $17.9 million per year) of liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident occurring not only at palo verde, but at any other nuclear power reactor in the united states. although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at palo verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit and to promulgate new regulations that could require significant capital expenditures and/or increase operating costs. the use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. aps's operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices. aps is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas and coal to the extent that unhedged positions exist. we have established procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives, including exchange traded futures and over-the-counter forwards, options, and swaps. as part of our overall risk management program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and fuels. the changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity. to the extent that commodity markets are illiquid, we may not be able to execute our risk management strategies, which could result in greater unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given time and financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ( dodd-frank act ) contains measures aimed at increasing the transparency and stability of the over-the counter, or otc, derivative markets and preventing excessive speculation. the dodd-frank act could restrict, among other things, trading positions in the energy futures markets, require different collateral or settlement positions, or increase regulatory reporting over derivative positions. based on the provisions included in the dodd-frank act and the implementation of regulations, these changes could, among other things, impact our ability to hedge commodity price and interest rate risk or increase the costs associated with our hedging programs. 37 table of contents we are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties. we use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties. despite the fact that the majority of aps's trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default, which could result in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. changes in technology could create challenges for aps's existing business. alternative energy technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption or emissions are being developed and commercialized, including renewable technologies such as photovoltaic (solar) cells, customer-sited generation, energy storage (batteries), and efficiency technologies. advances in technology and equipment/appliance efficiency could reduce the demand for supply from conventional generation and increase the complexity of managing aps's information technology and power system operations, which could adversely affect aps's business. aps continues to pursue and implement advanced grid technologies, including transmission and distribution system technologies and digital meters enabling two-way communications between the utility and its customers. many of the products and processes resulting from these and other alternative technologies have not yet been widely used or tested on a long-term basis, and their use on large-scale systems is not as established or mature as aps's existing technologies and equipment. the implementation of new and additional technologies adds complexity to our information technology and operational technology systems, which could require additional infrastructure and resources. widespread installation and acceptance of new technologies could also enable the entry of new market participants, such as technology companies, into the interface between aps and its customers and could have other unpredictable effects on aps's traditional business model. deployment of renewable energy technologies is expected to continue across the western states and result in a larger portion of the overall energy production coming from these sources. these trends, which have benefited from historical and continuing government support for certain technologies, have the potential to put downward pressure on wholesale power prices throughout the western states which could make aps's existing generating facilities less economical and impact their operational patterns and long-term viability. we are subject to employee workforce factors that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. like many companies in the electric utility industry, our workforce is maturing, with approximately 30% of employees eligible to retire by the end of 2020. although we have undertaken efforts to recruit, train and develop new employees, we face increased competition for talent. we are subject to other employee workforce factors, such as the availability and retention of qualified personnel and the need to negotiate collective bargaining agreements with union employees. these or other employee workforce factors could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. 38 table of contents financial risks financial market disruptions or new rules or regulations may increase our financing costs or limit our access to various financial markets, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to implement our financial strategy. pinnacle west and aps rely on access to credit markets as a significant source of liquidity and the capital markets for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flow from our operations. we believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets. however, certain market disruptions or rules or regulations may cause our cost of borrowing to increase generally, and/or otherwise adversely affect our ability to access these financial markets. in addition, the credit commitments of our lenders under our bank facilities may not be satisfied or continued beyond current commitment periods for a variety of reasons, including new rules and regulations, periods of financial distress or liquidity issues affecting our lenders or financial markets, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of our liquidity sources and the cost of maintaining these sources. changes in economic conditions, monetary policy, financial regulation or other factors could result in higher interest rates, which would increase interest expense on our existing variable rate debt and new debt we expect to issue in the future, and thus reduce funds available to us for our current plans. additionally, an increase in our leverage, whether as a result of these factors or otherwise, could adversely affect us by: causing a downgrade of our credit ratings; increasing the cost of future debt financing and refinancing; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and requiring us to dedicate an increased portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future investment in our business or other purposes. a downgrade of our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our current ratings are set forth in liquidity and capital resources credit ratings in item 7. we cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. any downgrade or withdrawal could adversely affect the market price of pinnacle west's and aps's securities, limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. we would be required to pay a higher interest rate for future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. in addition, borrowing costs under our existing credit facilities depend on our credit ratings. a downgrade could also require us to provide additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties. if our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it could severely limit access to the commercial paper market. we note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 39 table of contents investment performance, changing interest rates and other economic, social and political factors could decrease the value of our benefit plan assets and nuclear decommissioning trust funds or increase the valuation of our related obligations, resulting in significant additional funding requirements. we are also subject to risks related to the provision of employee healthcare benefits and healthcare reform legislation. any inability to fully recover these costs in our utility rates would negatively impact our financial condition. we have significant pension plan and other postretirement benefits plan obligations to our employees and retirees, and legal obligations to fund our pension trust and nuclear decommissioning trusts for palo verde. we hold and invest substantial assets in these trusts that are designed to provide funds to pay for certain of these obligations as they arise. declines in market values of the fixed income and equity securities held in these trusts may increase our funding requirements into the related trusts. additionally, the valuation of liabilities related to our pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans are impacted by a discount rate, which is the interest rate used to discount future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. declining interest rates decrease the discount rate, increase the valuation of the plan liabilities and may result in increases in pension and other postretirement benefit costs, cash contributions, regulatory assets, and charges to oci. changes in demographics, including increased number of retirements or changes in life expectancy and changes in other actuarial assumptions, may also result in similar impacts. the minimum contributions required under these plans are impacted by federal legislation and related regulations. increasing liabilities or otherwise increasing funding requirements under these plans, resulting from adverse changes in legislation or otherwise, could result in significant cash funding obligations that could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we recover most of the pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs and all of the currently estimated nuclear decommissioning costs in our regulated rates. any inability to fully recover these costs in a timely manner would have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. employee healthcare costs in recent years have continued to rise. while most of the patient protection and affordable care act provisions have been implemented, changes to or repeal of that act and pending or future federal or state legislative or regulatory activity or court proceedings could increase costs of providing medical insurance for our employees and retirees. any potential changes and resulting cost impacts cannot be determined with certainty at this time. our cash flow depends on the performance of aps. we derive essentially all of our revenues and earnings from our wholly-owned subsidiary, aps. accordingly, our cash flow and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of aps and its distributions to us. aps is a separate and distinct legal entity and has no obligation to make distributions to us. aps's financing agreements may restrict its ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us. in addition, an acc financing order requires aps to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow aps to pay common dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold. the common equity ratio, as defined in the acc order, is total shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long-term debt, including current maturities of long-term debt. 40 table of contents pinnacle west's ability to meet its debt service obligations could be adversely affected because its debt securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of its subsidiaries. because pinnacle west is structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to our debt securities. the assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service their own debt and other obligations. our ability to have the benefit of their cash flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries, would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their creditors have been satisfied. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our quarterly operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; developments generally affecting industries in which we operate; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; favorable or adverse regulatory or legislative developments; our dividend policy; future sales by the company of equity or equity-linked securities; and general domestic and international economic conditions. in addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of arizona law make it difficult for shareholders to change the composition of our board and may discourage takeover attempts. these provisions, which could preclude our shareholders from receiving a change of control premium, include the following: restrictions on our ability to engage in a wide range of business combination transactions with an interested shareholder (generally, any person who owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting power or any of our affiliates or associates) or any affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, unless specific conditions are met; anti-greenmail provisions of arizona law and our bylaws that prohibit us from purchasing shares of our voting stock from beneficial owners of more than 5% of our outstanding shares unless specified conditions are satisfied; the ability of the board of directors to increase the size of the board of directors and fill vacancies on the board of directors, whether resulting from such increase, or from death, resignation, disqualification or otherwise; and 41 table of contents the ability of our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and, with respect to preferred stock, the other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without shareholder approval. while these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 85 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see market and credit risks in item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks. 85 table of contentsrisk factors 28 risk factors in addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results. unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to pinnacle west and its subsidiaries, including aps. regulatory risks our financial condition depends upon aps's ability to recover costs in a timely manner from customers through regulated rates and otherwise execute its business strategy. aps is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence its business, liquidity and results of operations and its ability to fully recover costs from utility customers in a timely manner. the acc regulates aps's retail electric rates and ferc regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services. the profitability of aps is affected by the rates it may charge and the timeliness of recovering costs incurred through its rates. consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of any aps rate proceedings and ancillary matters which may come before the acc and ferc, including in some cases how court challenges to these regulatory decisions are resolved. arizona, like certain other states, has a statute that allows the acc to reopen prior decisions and modify otherwise final orders under certain circumstances. the acc must also approve aps's issuance of equity and debt securities and any significant transfer or encumbrance of aps property used to provide retail electric service, and must approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between us, aps and our respective affiliates, including the infusion of equity into aps. decisions made by the acc or ferc could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. aps's ability to conduct its business operations and avoid fines and penalties depends upon compliance with federal, state and local statutes, regulations and acc requirements, and obtaining and maintaining certain regulatory permits, approvals and certificates. aps must comply in good faith with all applicable statutes, regulations, rules, tariffs, and orders of agencies that regulate aps's business, including ferc, nrc, epa, the acc, and state and local governmental agencies. these agencies regulate many aspects of aps's utility operations, including safety and performance, emissions, siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that aps can charge retail and wholesale customers. failure to comply can subject aps to, among other things, fines and penalties. for example, under the energy policy act of 2005, ferc can impose penalties (approximately $1.2 million dollars per day per violation) for failure to comply with mandatory electric reliability standards. aps is also required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies. aps believes the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that aps's business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. however, changes in regulations or the imposition 28 table of contents of new or revised laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we are also unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from pending or future regulatory activities of any of these agencies . the operation of aps's nuclear power plant exposes it to substantial regulatory oversight and potentially significant liabilities and capital expenditures. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose safety-related, security-related and other licensing requirements for the operation of nuclear generating facilities. events at nuclear facilities of other operators or impacting the industry generally may lead the nrc to impose additional requirements and regulations on all nuclear generating facilities, including palo verde. in the event of noncompliance with its requirements, the nrc has the authority to impose a progressively increased inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut-down of a unit or civil penalties, or both, depending upon the nrc's assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. the increased costs resulting from penalties, a heightened level of scrutiny and implementation of plans to achieve compliance with nrc requirements may adversely affect aps's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. aps is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, and changes in, or liabilities under, existing or new laws or regulations may increase aps's cost of operations or impact its business plans. aps is, or may become, subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations, including air emissions of conventional pollutants and greenhouse gases, water quality, discharges of wastewater and waste streams originating from fly ash and bottom ash handling facilities, solid waste, hazardous waste, and coal combustion products, which consist of bottom ash, fly ash, and air pollution control wastes. these laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations. these laws and regulations generally require aps to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, and other approvals. if there is a delay or failure to obtain any required environmental regulatory approval, or if aps fails to obtain, maintain, or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to additional expenses. in addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in civil liability as a result of government enforcement actions or private claims or criminal penalties. both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. aps cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. environmental clean up. aps has been named as a prp for a superfund site in phoenix, arizona, and it could be named a prp in the future for other environmental clean-up at sites identified by a regulatory body. aps cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up costs. there is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all prps. coal ash. in december 2014, epa issued final regulations governing the handling and disposal of ccr, which are generated as a result of burning coal and consist of, among other things, fly ash and bottom ash. the rule regulates ccr as a non-hazardous waste. aps currently disposes of ccr in ash ponds and dry storage areas at cholla and four corners and in a dry landfill storage area at the navajo plant. to the extent the rule requires the closure or modification of these ccr units or the construction of new ccr units beyond what we currently anticipate, aps would incur significant additional costs for ccr disposal. in addition, the rule may also require corrective action to address releases from ccr disposal units or the presence of ccr constituents within groundwater near ccr disposal units above certain regulatory thresholds. 29 table of contents ozone national ambient air quality standards. in 2015, epa finalized revisions to the national ambient air quality standards for nitrogen oxides, which set new, more stringent standards intended to protect human health and human welfare. depending on the final attainment designations for the new standards and the state implementation requirements, aps may be required to invest in new pollution control technologies and to generate emission offsets for new projects or facility expansions located in ozone nonattainment areas. aps cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to it. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by aps are not fully recoverable from aps's customers, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. due to current or potential future regulations or legislation coupled with trends in natural gas and coal prices, or other clean energy rules or initiatives, the economics or feasibility of continuing to own certain resources, particularly coal facilities, may deteriorate, warranting early retirement of those plants, which may result in asset impairments. aps would seek recovery in rates for the book value of any remaining investments in the plants as well as other costs related to early retirement, but cannot predict whether it would obtain such recovery. aps faces potential financial risks resulting from climate change litigation and legislative and regulatory efforts to limit ghg emissions, as well as physical and operational risks related to climate effects. concern over climate change has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit co 2 , which is a major byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuel, and other ghg emissions. potential financial risks - greenhouse gas regulation, the clean power plan and potential litigation. in 2015, epa finalized a rule to limit carbon dioxide emissions from existing power plants, the cpp. the implementation of this rule within the jurisdictions where aps operates could result in a shift in in-state generation from coal to natural gas and renewable generation. such a substantial change in aps's generation portfolio could require additional capital investments and increased operating costs, and thus have a significant financial impact on the company. epa took action in october 2017 to repeal these regulations and in july 2019, epa published final regulations, the ace rule, to replace the cpp with a new set of regulations. epa's action in 2019 to repeal the cpp and replace it with the ace regulations is currently subject to pending judicial review in the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia. depending on the final outcome of a pending judicial review of ace and repeal of the cpp, along with related regulatory activity to implement the ace regulations, the utility industry may face alternative efforts from private parties seeking to establish alternative ghg emission limitations from power plants. alternative ghg emission limitations may arise from litigation under either federal or state common laws or citizen suit provisions of federal environmental statutes that attempt to force federal agency rulemaking or imposing direct facility emission limitations. such lawsuits may also seek damages from harm alleged to have resulted from power plant ghg emissions. physical and operational risks. weather extremes such as drought and high temperature variations are common occurrences in the southwest united states' desert area, and these are risks that aps considers in the normal course of business in the engineering and construction of its electric system. large increases in ambient temperatures could require evaluation of certain materials used within its system and may represent a greater challenge. as part of conducting its business, aps recognizes that the southwestern united states is particularly susceptible to the risks posed by climate change, which over time is projected to exacerbate high temperature extremes and prolong drought in the area where aps conducts its business. 30 table of contents co-owners of our jointly owned generation facilities may have unaligned goals and positions due to the effects of legislation, regulations, economic conditions or changes in our industry, which could have a significant impact on our ability to continue operations of such facilities. aps owns certain of our power plants jointly with other owners with varying ownership interests in such facilities. changes in the nature of our industry and the economic viability of certain plants, including impacts resulting from types and availability of other resources, fuel costs, legislation and regulation, together with timing considerations related to expiration of leases or other agreements for such facilities, could result in unaligned positions among co-owners. such differences in the co-owners' willingness or ability to continue their participation could ultimately lead to disagreements among the parties as to how and whether to continue operation of such plants, which could lead to eventual shut down of units or facilities and uncertainty related to the resulting cost recovery of such assets. see note 4 for a discussion of the navajo plant and cholla retirement and the related risks associated with aps's continued recovery of its remaining investment in the plant. deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition, which could have a significant adverse impact on aps's business and its results of operations. in 1999, the acc approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in arizona. retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on aps due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital. although some very limited retail competition existed in aps's service area in 1999 and 2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to aps's customers. this is in large part due to a 2004 arizona court of appeals decision that found critical components of the acc's rules to be violative of the arizona constitution. the ruling also voided the operating authority of all the competitive providers previously authorized by the acc. on may 9, 2013, the acc voted to re-examine the facilitation of a deregulated retail electric market in arizona. the acc subsequently opened a docket for this matter and received comments from a number of interested parties on the considerations involved in establishing retail electric deregulation in the state. one of these considerations is whether various aspects of a deregulated market, including setting utility rates on a market basis, would be consistent with the requirements of the arizona constitution. on september 11, 2013, after receiving legal advice from the acc staff, the acc voted 4-1 to close the current docket and await full arizona constitutional authority before any further examination of this matter. the motion approved by the acc also included opening one or more new dockets in the future to explore options to offer more rate choices to customers and innovative changes within the existing cost-of-service regulatory model that could include elements of competition. one of these options would be a continuation or expansion of aps's existing ag (alternative generation)-x program, which essentially allows up to 200 mw of cumulative load to be served via a buy-through arrangement with competitive suppliers of generation. the ag-x program was approved by the acc as part of the 2017 settlement agreement. in november 2018, the acc voted to again re-examine retail competition. in addition, proposals to enable or support retail electric competition may be made from time to time through ballot initiatives, legislative action or other forums in arizona. the acc has scheduled a workshop for february 25-26, 2020 for further consideration and discussion of the retail electric competition rules. aps cannot predict whether these efforts will result in any changes and, if changes to the rules results, what impact these rules would have on aps. 31 table of contents proposals to change policy in arizona or other states made through ballot initiatives or referenda may increase the company's cost of operations or impact its business plans. in arizona and other states, a person or organization may file a ballot initiative or referendum with the arizona secretary of state or other applicable state agency and, if a sufficient number of verifiable signatures are presented, the initiative or referendum may be placed on the ballot for the public to vote on the matter. ballot initiatives and referenda may relate to any matter, including policy and regulation related to the electric industry, and may change statutes or the state constitution in ways that could impact arizona utility customers, the arizona economy and the company. some ballot initiatives and referenda are drafted in an unclear manner and their potential industry and economic impact can be subject to varied and conflicting interpretations. we may oppose certain initiatives or referenda (including those that could result in negative impacts to our customers, the state or the company) via the electoral process, litigation, traditional legislative mechanisms, agency rulemaking or otherwise, which could result in significant costs to the company. the passage of certain initiatives or referenda could result in laws and regulations that impact our business plans and have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. operational risks aps's results of operations can be adversely affected by various factors impacting demand for electricity. weather conditions. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities. electric power demand is generally a seasonal business. in arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. as a result, aps's overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, aps has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. as a result, unusually mild weather could diminish aps's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. apart from the impact upon electricity demand, weather conditions related to prolonged high temperatures or extreme heat events present operational challenges. in the southwestern united states, where aps conducts its business, the effects of climate change are projected to increase the overall average temperature, lead to more extreme temperature events, and exacerbate prolonged drought conditions leading to the declining availability of water resources. extreme heat events and rising temperatures are projected to reduce the generation capacity of thermal-power plants and decrease the efficiency of the transmission grid. these operational risks related to rising temperatures and extreme heat events could affect aps's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. higher temperatures may decrease the snowpack, which might result in lowered soil moisture and an increased threat of forest fires. forest fires could threaten aps's communities and electric transmission lines and facilities. any damage caused as a result of forest fires could negatively impact aps's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, the decrease in snowpack can also lead to reduced water supplies in the areas where aps relies upon non-renewable water resources to supply cooling and process water for electricity generation. prolonged and extreme drought conditions can also affect aps's long-term ability to access the water resources necessary for thermal electricity generation operations. reductions in the availability of water for power plant cooling could negatively impact aps's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. effects of energy conservation measures and distributed energy resources. the acc has enacted rules regarding energy efficiency that mandate a 22% cumulative annual energy savings requirement by 2020. this will likely increase participation by aps customers in energy efficiency and conservation programs and other demand-side management efforts, which in turn will impact the demand for electricity. the rules also 32 table of contents include a requirement for the acc to review and address financial disincentives, recovery of fixed costs and the recovery of net lost revenue that would result from lower sales due to increased energy efficiency requirements. to that end, the lfcr is designed to address these matters. aps must also meet certain distributed energy requirements. a portion of aps's total renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of distributed energy resources (generally, small scale renewable technologies located on customers' properties). the distributed energy requirement is 30% of the applicable res requirement for 2012 and subsequent years. customer participation in distributed energy programs would result in lower demand, since customers would be meeting some of their own energy needs. in addition to these rules and requirements, energy efficiency technologies and distributed energy resources continue to evolve, which may have similar impacts on demand for electricity. reduced demand due to these energy efficiency requirements, distributed energy requirements and other emerging technologies, unless substantially offset through ratemaking mechanisms, could have a material adverse impact on aps's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. actual and projected customer and sales growth. retail customers in aps's service territory increased 2.0% for the year ended december 31, 2019 compared with the prior year. for the three years 2017 through 2019, aps's retail customer growth averaged 1.8% per year. we currently project annual customer growth to be 1.5 - 2.5% for 2020 and for 2020 through 2022 based on our assessment of improving economic conditions in arizona. retail electricity sales in kwh, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations, increased 0.6% for the year ended december 31, 2019 compared with the prior year. improving economic conditions and customer growth were offset by energy savings driven by customer conservation, energy efficiency, and distributed renewable generation initiatives. for the three years 2017 through 2019, annual retail electricity sales were about flat, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations. we currently project that annual retail electricity sales in kwh will increase in the range of 1.0 - 2.0% for 2020 and increase on average in the range of 1.0 - 2.0% during 2020 through 2022, including the effects of customer conservation and energy efficiency and distributed renewable generation initiatives, but excluding the effects of weather variations and excluding the impacts of several new large data centers opening operations in metro phoenix. the impact of new large data centers could raise the range of expected sales annual growth rate over the 2020 to 2022 period, but demand from these customers remains uncertain at this point. slower than expected growth of the arizona economy or acceleration of the expected effects of customer conservation, energy efficiency or distributed renewable generation initiatives could further impact these estimates. actual customer and sales growth may differ from our projections as a result of numerous factors, such as economic conditions, customer growth, usage patterns and energy conservation, impacts of energy efficiency programs and growth in distributed renewable generation, and responses to retail price changes. additionally, recovery of a substantial portion of our fixed costs of providing service is based upon the volumetric amount of our sales. if our customer growth rate does not continue to improve as projected, or if we experience acceleration of expected effects of customer conservation, energy efficiency or distributed renewable generation initiatives, we may be unable to reach our estimated sales projections, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the operation of power generation facilities and transmission systems involves risks that could result in reduced output or unscheduled outages, which could materially affect aps's results of operations . the operation of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected 33 table of contents levels of output or efficiency. unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other complications, occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of aps's business. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the larger transmission power grid, and the operation or failure of our facilities could adversely affect the operations of others. concerns over physical security of these assets could include damage to certain of our facilities due to vandalism or other deliberate acts that could lead to outages or other adverse effects. if aps's facilities operate below expectations, especially during its peak seasons, it may lose revenue or incur additional expenses, including increased purchased power expenses. the impact of wildfires could negatively affect aps's results of operations. wildfires have the potential to affect the communities that aps serves and aps's vast network of electric transmission and distribution lines and facilities. the potential likelihood of wildfires has increased due to many of the same weather impacts existing in arizona as those that led to the catastrophic wildfires in northern california. while we proactively take steps to mitigate wildfire risk in the areas of our electrical assets, wildfire risk is always present due to aps's expansive service territory. aps could be held liable for damages incurred as a result of wildfires that were caused by or enhanced due to aps's negligence. the arizona liability standard is different from that of california, which generally imposes liability for resulting damages without regard to fault. any damage caused to our assets, loss of service to our customers, or liability imposed as a result of wildfires could negatively impact aps's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the inability to successfully develop or acquire generation resources to meet reliability requirements and other new or evolving standards or regulations could adversely impact our business. potential changes in regulatory standards, impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, and the need to obtain various regulatory approvals create uncertainty surrounding our generation portfolio. the current abundance of low, stably priced natural gas, together with environmental and other concerns surrounding coal-fired generation resources, create strategic challenges as to the appropriate generation portfolio and fuel diversification mix. in addition, aps is required by the acc to meet certain energy resource portfolio requirements, including those related to renewables development and energy efficiency measures. the development of any generation facility is subject to many risks, including those related to financing, siting, permitting, new and evolving technology, and the construction of sufficient transmission capacity to support these facilities. aps's inability to adequately develop or acquire the necessary generation resources could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. in expressing concerns about the environmental and climate-related impacts from continued extraction, transportation, delivery and combustion of fossil fuels, environmental advocacy groups and other third parties have in recent years undertaken greater efforts to oppose the permitting and construction of fossil fuel infrastructure projects. these efforts may increase in scope and frequency depending on a number of variables, including the future course of federal environmental regulation and the increasing financial resources devoted to these opposition activities. aps cannot predict the effect that any such opposition may have on our ability to develop and construct fossil fuel infrastructure projects in the future. 34 table of contents the lack of access to sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on aps's business and results of operations. assured supplies of water are important for aps's generating plants. water in the southwestern united states is limited, and various parties have made conflicting claims regarding the right to access and use such limited supply of water. both groundwater and surface water in areas important to aps's generating plants have been and are the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings. in addition, the region in which aps's power plants are located is prone to drought conditions, which could potentially affect the plants' water supplies. climate change is also projected to exacerbate prolonged drought conditions. aps's inability to access sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. we are subject to cybersecurity risks and risks of unauthorized access to our systems that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. we operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. in the regular course of our business, we handle a range of sensitive security, customer and business systems information. there appears to be an increasing level of activity, sophistication and maturity of threat actors, in particular nation state actors, that seek to exploit potential vulnerabilities in the electric utility industry and wish to disrupt the u.s. bulk power, transmission and distribution system. our information technology systems, generation (including our palo verde nuclear facility), transmission and distribution facilities, and other infrastructure facilities and systems and physical assets could be targets of unauthorized access and are critical areas of cyber protection for us. we rely extensively on it systems, networks, and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities, and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms. some of these systems are managed, hosted, provided, or used for third parties to assist in conducting our business. as more third parties are involved in the operation of our business, there is a risk the confidentiality, integrity, privacy or security of data held by, or accessible to, third parties may be compromised. if a significant cybersecurity event or breach were to occur, we may not be able to fulfill critical business functions and we could (i) experience property damage, disruptions to our business, theft of or unauthorized access to customer, employee, financial or system operation information or other information; (ii) experience loss of revenue or incur significant costs for repair, remediation and breach notification, and increased capital and operating costs to implement increased security measures; and (iii) be subject to increased regulation, litigation and reputational damage. if such disruptions or breaches are not detected quickly, their effect could be compounded or could delay our response or the effectiveness of our response and ability to limit our exposure to potential liability. these types of events could also require significant management attention and resources, and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we develop and maintain systems and processes aimed at detecting and preventing information and cybersecurity incidents which require significant investment, maintenance, and ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies and regulatory requirements change. these systems and processes may be insufficient to mitigate the possibility of information and cybersecurity incidents, malicious social engineering, fraudulent or other malicious activities, and human error or malfeasance in the safeguarding of our data. we are subject to laws and rules issued by multiple government agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining the confidentiality of our security, customer and business information. one of these agencies, nerc, has issued comprehensive regulations and standards surrounding the security of bulk power systems, 35 table of contents and is continually in the process of developing updated and additional requirements with which the utility industry must comply. the nrc also has issued regulations and standards related to the protection of critical digital assets at commercial nuclear power plants. the increasing promulgation of nerc and nrc rules and standards will increase our compliance costs and our exposure to the potential risk of violations of the standards. experiencing a cybersecurity incident could cause us to be non-compliant with applicable laws and regulations, such as those promulgated by nerc and the nrc, or contracts that require us to securely maintain confidential data, causing us to incur costs related to legal claims or proceedings and regulatory fines or penalties. the risk of these system-related events and security breaches occurring continues to intensify. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, threats and attempted intrusions to our information technology systems and we could experience such threats and attempted intrusions to our operational control systems. to date we do not believe we have experienced a material breach or disruption to our network or information systems or our service operations. we will not be able to anticipate all cyberattacks or information security breaches, and our ongoing investments in security resources, talent, and business practices may not be effective against all threat actors. as such attacks continue to increase in sophistication and frequency, we may be unable to prevent all such attacks from being successful in the future. we maintain cyber insurance to provide coverage for a portion of the losses and damages that may result from a security breach of our information technology systems, but such insurance is subject to a number of exclusions and may not cover the total loss or damage caused by a breach. the market for cybersecurity insurance is relatively new and coverage available for cybersecurity events may evolve as the industry matures. in the future, adequate insurance may not be available at rates that we believe are reasonable, and the costs of responding to and recovering from a cyber incident may not be covered by insurance or recoverable in rates. the ownership and operation of power generation and transmission facilities on indian lands could result in uncertainty related to continued leases, easements and rights-of-way, which could have a significant impact on our business. four corners and portions of certain aps transmission lines are located on indian lands pursuant to leases, easements or other rights-of-way that are effective for specified periods. aps is unable to predict the final outcomes of pending and future approvals by the applicable sovereign governing bodies with respect to renewals of these leases, easements and rights-of-way. 36 table of contents there are inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health, fuel supply, spent fuel disposal, regulatory and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. aps has an ownership interest in and operates, on behalf of a group of participants, palo verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the united states. palo verde constitutes approximately 18% of our owned and leased generation capacity. palo verde is subject to environmental, health and financial risks, such as the ability to obtain adequate supplies of nuclear fuel; the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. aps maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. in addition, aps may be required under federal law to pay up to $120.1 million (but not more than $17.9 million per year) of liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident occurring not only at palo verde, but at any other nuclear power reactor in the united states. although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at palo verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit and to promulgate new regulations that could require significant capital expenditures and/or increase operating costs. the use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. aps's operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices. aps is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas and coal to the extent that unhedged positions exist. we have established procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives, including exchange traded futures and over-the-counter forwards, options, and swaps. as part of our overall risk management program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and fuels. the changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity. to the extent that commodity markets are illiquid, we may not be able to execute our risk management strategies, which could result in greater unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given time and financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ( dodd-frank act ) contains measures aimed at increasing the transparency and stability of the over-the counter ("otc") derivative markets and preventing excessive speculation. the dodd-frank act could restrict, among other things, trading positions in the energy futures markets, require different collateral or settlement positions, or increase regulatory reporting over derivative positions. based on the provisions included in the dodd-frank act and the implementation of regulations, these changes could, among other things, impact our ability to hedge commodity price and interest rate risk or increase the costs associated with our hedging programs. we are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties. we use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties. despite the fact that the majority of aps's trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default, which could result in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. 37 table of contents changes in technology could create challenges for aps's existing business. alternative energy technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption or emissions are being developed and commercialized, including renewable technologies such as photovoltaic (solar) cells, customer-sited generation, energy storage (batteries) and efficiency technologies. advances in technology and equipment/appliance efficiency could reduce the demand for supply from conventional generation, including carbon-free nuclear generation, and increase the complexity of managing aps's information technology and power system operations, which could adversely affect aps's business. customer-sited alternative energy technologies present challenges to aps's operations due to misalignment with aps's existing operational needs. when these resources lack dispatchability and other elements of utility-side control, they are considered unmanaged resources. the cumulative effect of such unmanaged resources results in added complexity for aps's system management. aps continues to pursue and implement advanced grid technologies, including transmission and distribution system technologies and digital meters enabling two-way communications between the utility and its customers. many of the products and processes resulting from these and other alternative technologies, including energy storage technologies, have not yet been widely used or tested on a long-term basis, and their use on large-scale systems is not as established or mature as aps's existing technologies and equipment. the implementation of new and additional technologies adds complexity to our information technology and operational technology systems, which could require additional infrastructure and resources. widespread installation and acceptance of new technologies could also enable the entry of new market participants, such as technology companies, into the interface between aps and its customers and could have other unpredictable effects on aps's traditional business model. deployment of renewable energy technologies is expected to continue across the western states and result in a larger portion of the overall energy production coming from these sources. these trends, which have benefited from historical and continuing government support for certain technologies, have the potential to put downward pressure on wholesale power prices throughout the western states which could make aps's existing generating facilities less economical and impact their operational patterns and long-term viability. we are subject to employee workforce factors that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. like many companies in the electric utility industry, our workforce is maturing, with approximately 35% of employees eligible to retire by the end of 2024. although we have undertaken efforts to recruit, train and develop new employees, we face increased competition for talent. we are subject to other employee workforce factors, such as the availability and retention of qualified personnel and the need to negotiate collective bargaining agreements with union employees. these or other employee workforce factors could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. 38 table of contents financial risks financial market disruptions or new rules or regulations may increase our financing costs or limit our access to various financial markets, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to implement our financial strategy. pinnacle west and aps rely on access to credit markets as a significant source of liquidity and the capital markets for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flow from our operations. we believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets. however, certain market disruptions or rules or regulations may cause our cost of borrowing to increase generally, and/or otherwise adversely affect our ability to access these financial markets. in addition, the credit commitments of our lenders under our bank facilities may not be satisfied or continued beyond current commitment periods for a variety of reasons, including new rules and regulations, periods of financial distress or liquidity issues affecting our lenders or financial markets, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of our liquidity sources and the cost of maintaining these sources. changes in economic conditions, monetary policy, financial regulation or other factors could result in higher interest rates, which would increase interest expense on our existing variable rate debt and new debt we expect to issue in the future, and thus reduce funds available to us for our current plans. additionally, an increase in our leverage, whether as a result of these factors or otherwise, could adversely affect us by: causing a downgrade of our credit ratings; increasing the cost of future debt financing and refinancing; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and requiring us to dedicate an increased portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future investment in our business or other purposes. a downgrade of our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our current ratings are set forth in liquidity and capital resources credit ratings in item 7. we cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. any downgrade or withdrawal could adversely affect the market price of pinnacle west's and aps's securities, limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs, which would adversely impact our financial results. we could be required to pay a higher interest rate for future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. in addition, borrowing costs under our existing credit facilities depend on our credit ratings. a downgrade could also require us to provide additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties. if our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it could severely limit access to the commercial paper market. we note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 39 table of contents investment performance, changing interest rates and other economic, social and political factors could decrease the value of our benefit plan assets, nuclear decommissioning trust funds and other special use funds or increase the valuation of our related obligations, resulting in significant additional funding requirements. we are also subject to risks related to the provision of employee healthcare benefits and healthcare reform legislation. any inability to fully recover these costs in our utility rates would negatively impact our financial condition. we have significant pension plan and other postretirement benefits plan obligations to our employees and retirees, and legal obligations to fund our pension trust and nuclear decommissioning trusts for palo verde. we hold and invest substantial assets in these trusts that are designed to provide funds to pay for certain of these obligations as they arise. declines in market values of the fixed income and equity securities held in these trusts may increase our funding requirements into the related trusts. additionally, the valuation of liabilities related to our pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans are impacted by a discount rate, which is the interest rate used to discount future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. declining interest rates decrease the discount rate, increase the valuation of the plan liabilities and may result in increases in pension and other postretirement benefit costs, cash contributions, regulatory assets, and charges to oci. changes in demographics, including increased number of retirements or changes in life expectancy and changes in other actuarial assumptions, may also result in similar impacts. the minimum contributions required under these plans are impacted by federal legislation and related regulations. increasing liabilities or otherwise increasing funding requirements under these plans, resulting from adverse changes in legislation or otherwise, could result in significant cash funding obligations that could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we recover most of the pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs and all of the currently estimated nuclear decommissioning costs in our regulated rates. any inability to fully recover these costs in a timely manner would have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. while most of the patient protection and affordable care act provisions have been implemented, changes to or repeal of that act and pending or future federal or state legislative or regulatory activity or court proceedings could increase costs of providing medical insurance for our employees and retirees. any potential changes and resulting cost impacts cannot be determined with certainty at this time. our cash flow depends on the performance of aps and its ability to make distributions. we derive essentially all of our revenues and earnings from our wholly-owned subsidiary, aps. accordingly, our cash flow and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of aps and its distributions to us. aps is a separate and distinct legal entity and has no obligation to make distributions to us. aps's financing agreements may restrict its ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us. in addition, an acc financing order requires aps to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow aps to pay common dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold. the common equity ratio, as defined in the acc order, is total shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long-term debt, including current maturities of long-term debt. 40 table of contents pinnacle west's ability to meet its debt service obligations could be adversely affected because its debt securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of its subsidiaries. because pinnacle west is structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other liabilities of its subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to its own debt securities. the assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service their own debt and other obligations. our ability to have the benefit of their cash flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries, would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their creditors have been satisfied. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our quarterly operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; changes in expectations as to future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; developments generally affecting industries in which we operate; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; favorable or adverse regulatory or legislative developments; our dividend policy; future sales by the company of equity or equity-linked securities; and general domestic and international economic conditions. in addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of arizona law make it difficult for shareholders to change the composition of our board and may discourage takeover attempts. these provisions, which could preclude our shareholders from receiving a change of control premium, include the following: restrictions on our ability to engage in a wide range of business combination transactions with an interested shareholder (generally, any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting power, or any of our affiliates or associates who beneficially owned 10% or more of our outstanding voting power at any time during the prior three years) or any affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, unless specific conditions are met; anti-greenmail provisions of arizona law and our bylaws that prohibit us from purchasing shares of our voting stock from beneficial owners of more than 5% of our outstanding shares unless specified conditions are satisfied; the ability of the board of directors to increase the size of and fill vacancies on the board of directors, whether resulting from such increase, or from death, resignation, disqualification or otherwise; 41 table of contents the ability of our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and, with respect to preferred stock, the other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without shareholder approval; restrictions that limit the rights of our shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders; and restrictions regarding the rights of our shareholders to nominate directors or to submit proposals to be considered at shareholder meetings. while these provisions may have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 74 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see market and credit risks in item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks. 74 table of contentsrisk factors 22 risk factors in addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results. unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to pinnacle west and its subsidiaries, including aps. regulatory risks our financial condition depends upon aps ability to recover costs in a timely manner from customers through regulated rates and otherwise execute its business strategy. aps is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence its business, liquidity, results of operations and its ability to fully recover costs from utility customers in a timely manner. the acc regulates aps retail electric rates and the ferc regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services. while approved electric rates are intended to permit aps to recover its costs of service and earn a reasonable rate of return, the profitability of aps is affected by the rates it may charge. consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of any aps retail rate proceedings and ancillary matters which may come before the acc and the ferc. in connection with its recent rate case settlement agreement, aps agreed not to request its next general retail rate increase to be effective prior to july 1, 2012. the acc must also approve aps issuance of securities and any transfer of aps property used to provide retail electric service, and must approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between us, aps and our respective affiliates. decisions made by the acc and the ferc could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. aps ability to conduct its business operations and avoid fines and penalties depends upon compliance with federal, state or local statutes and regulations, and obtaining and maintaining certain regulatory permits, approvals and certificates. aps must comply in good faith with all applicable statutes, regulations, rules, tariffs, and orders of agencies that regulate aps business, including the ferc, the nrc, the epa and state and local governmental agencies. these agencies regulate many aspects of aps utility operations, including safety and performance, emissions, siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that aps can charge retail and wholesale customers. failure to comply can subject aps to, among other things, fines and penalties. for example, under the energy policy act of 2005, the ferc can impose penalties (up to one million dollars per day per violation) for failure to comply with mandatory electric reliability standards. aps underwent its first mandatory regularly-scheduled triennial audit for compliance with these standards in early 2010 and expects to receive its results by mid-2010. in addition, aps is required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies. aps believes the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that aps business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. however, changes in regulations or the imposition of new or revised laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we are also unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from pending or future regulatory activities of any of these agencies . 22 table of contents the operation of aps nuclear power plant exposes it to substantial regulatory oversight and potentially significant liabilities and capital expenditures. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of noncompliance, the nrc has the authority to impose monetary civil penalties or a progressively increased inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut down of a unit, or both, depending upon the nrc assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. aps was subject to this heightened scrutiny until march 2009, when it exited the nrc enhanced inspection regime. the increased costs resulting from penalties, a heightened level of scrutiny and implementation of plans to achieve compliance with nrc requirements, may adversely affect aps financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. aps is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, and changes in, or liabilities under, existing or new laws or regulations may increase aps cost of operations or impact its business plans. aps is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste, hazardous waste, and coal combustion products, which consist of bottom ash, fly ash and air pollution control wastes. these laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations. these laws and regulations generally require aps to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, and other approvals. if there is a delay or failure to obtain any required environmental regulatory approval, or if aps fails to obtain, maintain or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to additional expenses. in addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in civil liability or criminal penalties. both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. aps cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. environmental clean up. aps has been named as a prp for a superfund site in phoenix, arizona and it could be named a prp in the future for other environmental clean up at sites identified by a regulatory body. aps cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean up costs. there is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. regional haze. aps is currently awaiting final rulemaking from the epa that could impose new requirements on four corners and the navajo plant. aps is also awaiting final rulemaking from adeq that could impose new requirements on cholla. the epa and adeq will require these plants to install pollution control equipment that constitutes the best available retrofit technology to lessen the impacts of emissions on visibility surrounding the plants. depending upon the agencies final determinations of what constitutes bart for these plants, the financial impact of installing the required pollution control equipment could jeopardize the economic viability of the plants or the ability of individual participants to continue their participation in these plants. 23 table of contents coal ash. recently congress directed the epa to propose new federal regulations governing the disposal of ccbs, which are generated as a result of burning coal and consist of, among other things, fly ash and bottom ash. aps currently disposes of ccbs in ash ponds and dry storage areas at four corners and cholla, and also sells a portion of its fly ash for beneficial reuse as a constituent in concrete products. if the epa regulates ccbs as a hazardous solid waste or phases out aps ability to dispose of ccbs through the use of ash ponds, aps could incur significant costs for ccb disposal and may be unable to continue its sale of fly ash for beneficial reuse. new source review. the epa has taken the position that many projects electric utilities have performed are major modifications that trigger nsr requirements under the clean air act. the utilities generally have taken the position that these projects are routine maintenance and did not result in emissions increases, and thus are not subject to nsr. aps received and responded to a request from the epa regarding projects and operations of four corners. if the epa seeks to impose nsr requirements at four corners or any other aps plant, either through a lawsuit or a notice of violation, significant capital investments could be required to install new pollution control technologies. the epa could also seek civil penalties. mercury and other hazardous air pollutants. the epa is required to adopt maximum achievable control technology emissions standards for mercury and other hazardous air pollutants by november 2011. depending on the compliance requirements contained in the final rule, aps may need to make significant capital investments to install additional pollution control equipment to meet these new standards. aps cannot be sure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to it. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by aps are not fully recoverable from aps customers, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. aps faces physical and operational risks related to climate change, and potential financial risks resulting from climate change litigation and legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. concern over climate change, deemed by many to be induced by rising levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit co 2 , which is a major byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuel, and other greenhouse gas emissions. in addition, lawsuits have been filed against companies that emit greenhouse gases, including a lawsuit filed by the native village of kivalina and the city of kivalina, alaska against us and several other utilities seeking damages related to climate change, which was dismissed but has been appealed. physical and operational risks. projections for the southwest united states from climate change models include an increase in the number of extreme hot days in the summer, less precipitation in the form of snow and the earlier runoff of snowmelt, increased wildfire potential, and the potential for water shortages. assuming that the primary physical and operational risks to aps from climate change are increased potential for drought or water shortage, and a mild to moderate increase in ambient temperatures, aps believes it is taking the appropriate steps at this time to respond to these risks. weather extremes such as drought and high temperature variations are common occurrences in the southwest desert area, and these are risk factors that aps considers in the normal course of business in the engineering and construction of its electric system. large increases in ambient temperature due to climate change could require evaluation of certain materials used within its system and represents a greater challenge. 24 table of contents financial risks potential legislation and regulation . in the past several years, the united states congress has considered bills that would regulate domestic greenhouse gas emissions. the house of representatives approved a bill that would establish a greenhouse gas emission cap-and-trade system, and the senate is currently considering proposed legislation. there is growing consensus that some form of regulation or legislation is likely to occur in the near future at the federal level with respect to greenhouse gas emissions. if the united states congress, or individual states or groups of states in which aps operates, ultimately pass legislation regulating the emissions of greenhouse gases, any resulting limitations on generation facility co 2 and other greenhouse gas emissions could result in the creation of substantial additional capital expenditures and operating costs in the form of taxes, emissions allowances or required equipment upgrades and could have a material adverse impact on all fossil fuel fired generation facilities (particularly coal-fired facilities, which constitute approximately 28% of aps generation capacity). a cap-and-trade program may also result in counterparty credit risk and financial liquidity risk since collateral is typically exchanged between counterparties as a means of mitigating risk in the event of a counterparty default. at the state level, the california legislature enacted legislation to address greenhouse gas emissions. this legislation and other state-specific initiatives may affect aps business, including sales into the impacted states or the ability of its out-of-state power plant participants to continue their participation in certain coal-fired power plants, including four corners following expiration of the current lease term in 2016. in addition, the epa recently determined that greenhouse gas emissions endanger public health and welfare. this determination was made in response to a 2007 united states supreme court ruling that greenhouse gases fit within the clean air act broad definition of air pollutant and, as a result, the epa has the authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions of new motor vehicles under the clean air act. the recent endangerment finding could result in the epa issuing new regulatory requirements under the clean air act, beyond those related to motor vehicle emissions, which could impact aps power plants and result in substantial additional costs. excessive costs to comply with future legislation or regulations could force aps and other similarly-situated electric power generators to retire or suspend operations at certain coal-fired facilities. if aps cannot meet or maintain the level of renewable energy required under arizona increasing renewable energy standards or the higher commitment levels established in the settlement agreement, aps may be subject to penalties or fines for non-compliance. the renewable energy standard and tariff ( res ) requires aps to supply an increasing percentage of renewable energy each year, so that the amount of retail electricity sales from eligible renewable resources is at least 2.5% of total retail sales by 2010. this amount increases annually to 15% by 2025. in its recent retail rate case settlement agreement, aps agreed to exceed these standards and committed to an interim renewable energy target of 10% by year end 2015. a portion of this total renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of distributed energy resources (generally, small scale renewable technologies located on customers properties). the distributed energy requirement is 20% of the overall res requirement of 2.5% in 2010 and increases to 30% of the applicable res requirement in 2012 and subsequent years. if aps fails to implement any of its annual acc-approved renewable resource plans, it may be subject to penalties imposed by the acc, including aps inability to recover certain costs. compliance with the distributed resource requirement is contingent upon customer participation. the development of any renewable generation facilities resulting from the res is subject to many other risks, including risks relating to financing, permitting, technology, fuel supply, and the construction of sufficient transmission capacity to support these facilities. 25 table of contents deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition, which could have a significant adverse impact on aps business and its results of operations. in 1999, the acc approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in arizona. retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on aps due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital. although some very limited retail competition existed in aps service area in 1999 and 2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to aps customers. as a result, aps cannot predict if, when, and the extent to which, additional competitors may re-enter aps service territory. currently, there are two matters pending with the acc that involve a business model where customers pay solar vendors for the installation and operation of solar facilities based on the amount of energy produced. the acc must make a determination whether these entities would be considered public service corporations under the arizona constitution, causing them to be regulated by the acc. use of such products by customers within aps territory would result in some level of competition. as a result of changes in federal law and regulatory policy, competition in the wholesale electricity market has greatly increased due to a greater participation by traditional electricity suppliers, non-utility generators, independent power producers, and wholesale power marketers and brokers. this increased competition could affect aps load forecasts, plans for power supply and wholesale energy sales and related revenues. as a result of the changing regulatory environment and the relatively low barriers to entry, we expect wholesale competition to increase, which could adversely affect our business. operational risks aps results of operations can be adversely affected by various factors impacting demand for electricity. weather conditions. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities. electric power demand is generally a seasonal business. in arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. as a result, aps overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, aps has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. as a result, unusually mild weather could diminish aps results of operations and harm its financial condition. higher temperatures may decrease the snowpack, which might result in lowered soil moisture and an increased threat of forest fires. forest fires could threaten aps communities and electric transmission lines. any damage caused as a result of forest fires could negatively impact aps results of operations. 26 table of contents effects of energy conservation measures and distributed energy. the acc has initiated a rulemaking regarding energy efficiency, which includes a proposed 22% annual energy savings requirement by 2020. if adopted, this will likely increase participation by aps customers in energy efficiency and conservation programs and demand-side management efforts, which in turn would impact the demand for electricity. the proposed rules also include a requirement for the acc to review and address financial disincentives, recovery of fixed costs and the recovery of net lost income/revenue that would result from lower sales due to increased energy efficiency requirements. the retail rate case settlement agreement establishes energy efficiency goals for aps that begin in 2010, subjecting aps to energy efficiency requirements in advance of the proposed rules described above. aps must also meet certain distributed energy requirements. a portion of aps total renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of distributed energy resources (generally, small scale renewable technologies located on customers properties). the distributed energy requirement is 20% of the overall res requirement of 2.5% in 2010 and increases to 30% of the applicable res requirement in 2012 and subsequent years. customer participation in distributed energy programs would result in lower demand, since customers would be meeting some or all of their own energy needs. reduced demand due to these energy efficiency and distributed energy requirements, unless offset through regulatory mechanisms, could have a material adverse impact on aps financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the operation of power generation facilities involves risks that could result in unscheduled power outages or reduced output, which could materially affect aps results of operations . the operation of power generation facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other complications, occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of aps business. if aps facilities operate below expectations, especially during its peak seasons, it may lose revenue or incur additional expenses, including increased purchased power expenses. the lack of access to sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on aps business and results of operations. assured supplies of water are important for aps generating plants. water in the southwestern united states is limited and various parties have made conflicting claims regarding the right to access and use such limited supply of water. both groundwater and surface water in areas important to aps generating plants have been the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings. in addition, the four corners region, in which four corners is located, has been experiencing drought conditions that may affect the water supply for the plants if adequate moisture is not received in the watershed that supplies the area. aps inability to access sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. the ownership and operation of power generation and transmission facilities on indian lands could result in uncertainty related to continued easements and rights-of-way, which could have a significant impact on our business. certain aps power plants, including four corners, and portions of the transmission lines that carry power from these plants are located on indian lands pursuant to easements or other rights-of-way that are effective for specified periods. aps is currently unable to predict the outcome of discussions with the appropriate indian tribes with respect to future renewal of these easements and rights-of-way. 27 table of contents there are inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health, fuel supply, spent fuel disposal, regulatory and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack. aps has an ownership interest in and operates, on behalf of a group of owners, palo verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the united states. palo verde is subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as the ability to obtain adequate supplies of nuclear fuel; the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. aps maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. in addition, aps may be required under federal law to pay up to $103 million (but not more than $15 million per year) of liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident occurring not only at palo verde, but at any other nuclear power plant in the united states. although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at palo verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. the operation of palo verde requires licenses that need to be periodically renewed and/or extended. in december 2008, aps applied for renewed operating licenses for all three palo verde units for 20 years beyond the expirations of the current licenses. aps does not anticipate any problems renewing these licenses. however, as a result of potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities, the licensing process could result in increased licensing or compliance costs that are difficult or impossible to predict. the use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. aps operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices. aps is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas and coal to the extent that unhedged positions exist. we have established procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives, including exchange-traded futures and options and over-the-counter forwards, options, and swaps. as part of our overall risk management program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and fuels. the changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity. to the extent that commodity markets are illiquid, we may not be able to execute our risk management strategies, which could result in greater unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given time and financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. congress is considering legislation to impose restrictions on the use of over-the-counter derivatives, including energy derivatives, which could subject aps to governmental regulation relating to these hedging transactions. if such legislation becomes law, aps could potentially face higher costs to hedge its risks, fewer potential counterparties still active in the newly-regulated marketplace and increased liquidity requirements. 28 table of contents we are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties. we use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties. despite the fact that the majority of trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default, which could result in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. changes in technology may adversely affect aps business. research and development activities are ongoing to improve alternative technologies to produce power, including fuel cells, micro turbines, clean coal and coal gasification, photovoltaic (solar) cells and improvements in traditional technologies and equipment, such as more efficient gas turbines. advances in these, or other technologies could reduce the cost of power production, making aps generating facilities less competitive. in addition, advances in technology could reduce the demand for power supply, which could adversely affect aps business. aps is pursuing and implementing advanced technologies, including smart grid transmission and distribution systems and advanced meters for use in customers homes and businesses. many of the products and processes resulting from these and other alternative technologies have not yet been widely used or tested, and their use on large-scale systems is not as advanced and established as aps existing technologies and equipment. uncertainties and unknowns related to these and other advancements in technology and equipment could adversely affect aps business if national standards develop that do not embrace the current technologies or if the technologies and equipment fail to perform as expected. financial risks financial market disruptions may increase our financing costs or limit our access to the credit markets, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to implement our financial strategy. we rely on access to short-term money markets, longer-term capital markets and the bank markets as a significant source of liquidity and for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from our operations. we believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets. however, certain market disruptions may increase our cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to access one or more financial markets. such disruptions could include: continuation of the current economic downturn; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or those of unrelated energy companies; mergers among financial institutions and the overall health of the banking industry; or the overall health of the utility industry. in addition, the credit commitments of our lenders under our bank facilities may not be satisfied for a variety of reasons, including unexpected periods of financial distress affecting our lenders, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of our liquidity sources. 29 table of contents changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, which would increase our interest expense on our debt and reduce funds available to us for our current plans. additionally, an increase in our leverage could adversely affect us by: increasing the cost of future debt financing; reducing our credit ratings; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes. a reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our current ratings are set forth in pinnacle west consolidated liquidity and capital resources credit ratings in item 7. we cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. any downgrade or withdrawal could adversely affect the market price of pinnacle west and aps securities, limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. we would be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. in addition, borrowing costs under certain of our existing credit facilities depend on our credit ratings. a downgrade would also require us to provide substantial additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties. if our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it could completely eliminate any possible future access to the commercial paper market. we note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. market performance, changing interest rates and other economic factors could decrease the value of our benefit plan assets and nuclear decommissioning trust funds and increase our related obligations, resulting in significant additional funding that could negatively impact our business. disruptions in the capital markets may adversely affect the values of fixed income and equity investments held in our employee benefit plan trusts and nuclear decommissioning trusts. we have significant obligations in these areas and hold substantial assets in these trusts. a decline in the market value of these trusts may increase our funding requirements. additionally, the pension plan and other postretirement benefit liabilities are impacted by the discount rate, which is the interest rate used to discount future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. declining interest rates impact the discount rate, and may result in increases in pension and other postretirement benefit costs, cash contributions, regulatory assets, and charges to other comprehensive income. changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. a significant portion of the pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs and all of the nuclear decommissioning costs are recovered in regulated electricity prices. our inability to fully recover these costs in a timely manner or any increased funding obligations could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 30 table of contents we may be required to adopt international financial reporting standards ( ifrs ). the ultimate adoption of such standards could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. ifrs is a comprehensive series of accounting standards published by the international accounting standards board that is being considered by the sec to replace accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ( gaap ) for use in preparation of financial statements. if the sec requires mandatory adoption of ifrs, we may lose our ability to use regulatory accounting treatment, and would follow ifrs rather than gaap for the preparation of our financial statements beginning in 2014. the implementation and adoption of these new standards and the inability to use regulatory accounting could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. our cash flow largely depends on the performance of our subsidiaries. we conduct our operations primarily through subsidiaries. substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by such subsidiaries. accordingly, our cash flow is dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of these subsidiaries and their distributions to us. the subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to make distributions to us. the debt agreements of some of our subsidiaries may restrict their ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us. an acc financing order requires aps to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow aps to pay common dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold. the common equity ratio, as defined in the acc order, is common equity divided by the sum of common equity and long-term debt, including current maturities of long-term debt. our ability to meet our debt service obligations could be adversely affected because our debt securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of our subsidiaries. because we are structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to our debt securities. none of the indentures under which we or our subsidiaries may issue debt securities limits our ability or the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional debt in the future. the assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service their own debt and other obligations. our ability to have the benefit of their assets and cash flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries, would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their creditors have been satisfied. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our quarterly operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; 31 table of contents changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; developments generally affecting industries in which we operate, particularly the energy distribution and energy generation industries; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; favorable or adverse regulatory or legislative developments; our dividend policy; future sales by the company of equity or equity-linked securities; and general domestic and international economic conditions. in addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of arizona law make it difficult for shareholders to change the composition of our board and may discourage takeover attempts. these provisions, which could preclude our shareholders from receiving a change of control premium, include the following: restrictions on our ability to engage in a wide range of business combination transactions with an interested shareholder (generally, any person who owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting power or any of our affiliates or associates) or any affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, unless specific conditions are met; anti-greenmail provisions of arizona law and our bylaws that prohibit us from purchasing shares of our voting stock from beneficial owners of more than 5% of our outstanding shares unless specified conditions are satisfied; the ability of the board of directors to increase the size of the board and fill vacancies on the board, whether resulting from such increase, or from death, resignation, disqualification or otherwise; and the ability of our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and, with respect to preferred stock, the other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without shareholder approval. while these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. 32 table of contents suncor business and financial results would be adversely affected if it is unable to extend, modify or renew its credit facilities or repay its debt through sales of its remaining assets. at december 31, 2009, suncor had borrowings of approximately $57 million under its principal loan facility (the "secured revolver"). the secured revolver matured on january 30, 2010 and suncor and the agent bank for the secured revolver are discussing an extension of the maturity date to allow time for suncor to continue discussions concerning the potential sale of additional properties. in addition to the secured revolver, at december 31, 2009, suncor had approximately $43 million of outstanding debt under other credit facilities ($9 million of which has matured since december 31, 2009 and remains outstanding). if suncor is unable to obtain an extension or renewal of the secured revolver or its other matured debt, or if it is unable to comply with the mandatory repayment and other provisions of any new or modified credit agreements, suncor could be required to immediately repay its outstanding indebtedness under all of its credit facilities as a result of cross-default provisions. such an immediate repayment obligation would have a material adverse impact on suncor's business and financial position and impair its ongoing viability. suncor intends to apply the proceeds of its planned asset sales to the repayment of its outstanding debt. if it is unable to locate suitable buyers and close certain asset sales or obtain sufficient proceeds from these sales to maintain or pay off its existing debt, it may be unable to satisfy obligations under its credit facilities, resulting in the immediate repayment obligations described above. suncor cannot predict the outcome of negotiations with its lenders or its ability to sell assets for sufficient proceeds to repay its outstanding debt. suncor's ability to generate sufficient cash from operations while it pursues lender negotiations and further asset sales is uncertain. the company has not guaranteed any suncor indebtedness. as a result, we do not believe that suncor's inability to meet its financial covenants under the secured revolver or its other outstanding credit facilities would have a material adverse impact on pinnacle west's cash flows or liquidity. any resulting suncor losses would be reflected in pinnacle west's consolidated financial statements. if suncor were required to seek protection under federal bankruptcy laws, pinnacle west could be exposed to the uncertainties and complexities inherent for parent companies in such proceedings. during 2008 and 2009 the real estate market weakened significantly resulting in lower land and home sales and depressed real estate prices. as a result, in 2008 and 2009 suncor recognized certain impairment charges. suncor may be required to record additional impairments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 79 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see market and credit risks in item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 79 table of contentsrisk factors 27 risk factors in addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results. unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to pinnacle west and its subsidiaries, including aps. regulatory risks our financial condition depends upon aps ability to recover costs in a timely manner from customers through regulated rates and otherwise execute its business strategy. aps is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence its business, liquidity, results of operations and its ability to fully recover costs from utility customers in a timely manner. the acc regulates aps retail electric rates and the ferc regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services. the profitability of aps is affected by the rates it may charge. consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of any aps retail rate proceedings and ancillary matters which may come before the acc and the ferc. arizona, like certain other states, has a statute that allows the acc to reopen prior decisions and modify final orders under certain circumstances. the acc must also approve aps issuance of securities and any transfer of aps property used to provide retail electric service, and must approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between us, aps and our respective affiliates. decisions made by the acc and the ferc could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. aps ability to conduct its business operations and avoid fines and penalties depends upon compliance with federal, state or local statutes and regulations, and obtaining and maintaining certain regulatory permits, approvals and certificates. aps must comply in good faith with all applicable statutes, regulations, rules, tariffs, and orders of agencies that regulate aps business, including the ferc, the nrc, the epa and state and local governmental agencies. these agencies regulate many aspects of aps utility operations, including safety and performance, emissions, siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that aps can charge retail and wholesale customers. failure to comply can subject aps to, among other things, fines and penalties. for example, under the energy policy act of 2005, the ferc can impose penalties (up to one million dollars per day per violation) for failure to comply with mandatory electric reliability standards. in addition, aps is required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies. aps believes the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that aps business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. however, changes in regulations or the imposition of new or revised laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we are also unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from pending or future regulatory activities of any of these agencies . the operation of aps nuclear power plant exposes it to substantial regulatory oversight and potentially significant liabilities and capital expenditures. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of noncompliance, the nrc has the authority to impose monetary civil penalties or a progressively increased inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut down of a unit, or both, depending upon the nrc assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. the increased costs resulting from penalties, a heightened level of scrutiny and implementation of plans to achieve compliance with nrc requirements may adversely affect aps financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. aps is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, and changes in, or liabilities under, existing or new laws or regulations may increase aps cost of operations or impact its business plans. aps is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste, hazardous waste, and coal combustion products, which consist of bottom ash, fly ash and air pollution control wastes. these laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations. these laws and regulations generally require aps to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, and other approvals. if there is a delay or failure to obtain any required environmental regulatory approval, or if aps fails to obtain, maintain or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to additional expenses. in addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in civil liability or criminal penalties. both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. aps cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. 27 table of contents environmental clean up. aps has been named as a prp for a superfund site in phoenix, arizona and it could be named a prp in the future for other environmental clean up at sites identified by a regulatory body. aps cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean up costs. there is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. regional haze. aps is currently awaiting a final rulemaking from the epa that could impose new requirements on four corners and the navajo plant. aps is also awaiting a final rulemaking from adeq that could impose new requirements on cholla. the epa and adeq will require these plants to install pollution control equipment that constitutes the best available retrofit technology to lessen the impacts of emissions on visibility surrounding the plants. depending upon the agencies final determinations of what constitutes bart for these plants, the financial impact of installing the required pollution control equipment could jeopardize the economic viability of the plants or the ability of individual participants to continue their participation in these plants. coal ash. the epa released proposed regulations governing the disposal of ccrs, which are generated as a result of burning coal and consist of, among other things, fly ash and bottom ash. the epa proposed regulating ccrs as either non-hazardous or hazardous waste. aps currently disposes of ccrs in ash ponds and dry storage areas at four corners and cholla, and also sells a portion of its fly ash for beneficial reuse as a constituent in concrete products. if the epa regulates ccrs as a hazardous solid waste or phases out aps ability to dispose of ccrs through the use of ash ponds, aps could incur significant costs for ccr disposal and may be unable to continue its sale of fly ash for beneficial reuse. new source review. the epa has taken the position that many projects electric utilities have performed are major modifications that trigger new source review requirements under the clean air act. the utilities generally have taken the position that these projects are routine maintenance and did not result in emissions increases, and thus are not subject to new source review. in 2009, aps received and responded to a request from the epa regarding projects and operations of four corners. a civilian organization notified the four corners participants that it intends to file a citizen suit against the participants for alleged violations of new source review and the nsps program of the clean air act. if the epa seeks to impose new source review requirements at four corners or any other aps plant, or if the citizen suit is filed and the citizens group prevails, significant capital investments could be required to install new pollution control technologies. the epa could also seek civil penalties. mercury and other hazardous air pollutants. the epa is required to adopt maximum achievable control technology emissions standards for mercury and other hazardous air pollutants by november 2011. compliance with the new standards will be required three years after the epa issues its final rule. depending on the compliance requirements contained in the final rule, aps may need to make significant capital investments to install additional pollution control equipment to meet these new standards. aps cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to it. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by aps are not fully recoverable from aps customers, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 28 table of contents aps faces physical and operational risks related to climate change, and potential financial risks resulting from climate change litigation and legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. concern over climate change, deemed by many to be induced by rising levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit co 2 , which is a major byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuel, and other greenhouse gas emissions. in addition, lawsuits have been filed against companies that emit greenhouse gases, including a lawsuit filed by the native village of kivalina and the city of kivalina, alaska against us and several other utilities seeking damages related to climate change, which was dismissed but has been appealed. financial risks potential legislation and regulation . in the past several years, the united states congress has considered bills that would regulate domestic greenhouse gas emissions. it is possible that some form of legislation may occur in the future at the federal level with respect to greenhouse gas emissions. if the united states congress, or individual states or groups of states in which aps operates, ultimately pass legislation regulating the emissions of greenhouse gases, any resulting limitations on co 2 and other greenhouse gas emissions could result in the creation of substantial additional capital expenditures and operating costs in the form of taxes, emissions allowances or required equipment upgrades and could have a material adverse impact on all fossil fuel fired generation facilities (particularly coal-fired facilities, which constitute approximately 28% of aps generation capacity). at the state level, the california legislature enacted legislation to address greenhouse gas emissions and the california air resources board approved regulations that will establish a cap-and-trade program for greenhouse gas. this legislation, regulation and other state-specific initiatives may affect aps business, including sales into the impacted states or the ability of its out-of-state power plant participants to continue their participation in certain coal-fired power plants, including four corners following expiration of the current lease term in 2016. in addition, the epa has determined that greenhouse gas emissions endanger public health and welfare. this determination was made in response to a 2007 united states supreme court ruling that greenhouse gases fit within the clean air act broad definition of air pollutant and, as a result, the epa has the authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions of new motor vehicles under the clean air act. as a result of the endangerment finding, the epa determined that the clean air act required new regulatory requirements for new and modified major greenhouse gas emitting sources, including power plants. several groups have filed lawsuits challenging the epa endangerment finding. aps cannot predict what rules or regulations may ultimately result from the epa endangerment finding, whether the parties challenging the endangerment finding will be successful, or what impact other potential rules or regulations will have on aps operations. excessive costs to comply with future legislation or regulations could force aps and other similarly-situated electric power generators to retire or suspend operations at certain coal-fired facilities. physical and operational risks. assuming that the primary physical and operational risks to aps from climate change are increased potential for drought or water shortage, and a mild to moderate increase in ambient temperatures, aps believes it is taking the appropriate steps to respond to these risks. weather extremes such as drought and high temperature variations are common occurrences in the southwest desert area, and these are risks that aps considers in the normal course of business in the engineering and construction of its electric system. large increases in ambient temperatures could require evaluation of certain materials used within its system and represent a greater challenge. 29 table of contents if aps cannot meet or maintain the level of renewable energy required under arizona increasing renewable energy standards, aps may be subject to penalties or fines for non-compliance. the res requires aps to supply an increasing percentage of renewable energy each year, so that the amount of retail electricity sales from eligible renewable resources is at least 3% of total retail sales by 2011. this amount increases annually to 15% by 2025. in its 2009 retail rate case settlement agreement, aps agreed to exceed these standards and committed to an interim renewable energy target of 1,700 gwh of renewable resources to be in service by year end 2015 in addition to its 2008 renewable resource commitments. taken together, aps commitment is estimated to be 3,400 gwh, or approximately 10% of retail sales, by year end 2015. a portion of this total renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of distributed energy resources (generally, small scale renewable technologies located on customers properties). the distributed energy requirement is 25% of the overall res requirement of 3% in 2011 and increases to 30% of the applicable res requirement in 2012 and subsequent years. if aps fails to implement any of its annual acc-approved renewable implementation plans, it may be subject to penalties imposed by the acc, including aps inability to recover certain costs. compliance with the distributed resource requirement is contingent upon customer participation. the development of any renewable generation facilities resulting from the res is subject to many other risks, including risks relating to financing, permitting, technology, fuel supply, and the construction of sufficient transmission capacity to support these facilities. deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition, which could have a significant adverse impact on aps business and its results of operations. in 1999, the acc approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in arizona. retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on aps due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital. although some very limited retail competition existed in aps service area in 1999 and 2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to aps customers. as a result, aps cannot predict if, when, and the extent to which, additional competitors may re-enter aps service territory. in 2010, the acc issued a decision holding that solar vendors that install and operate solar facilities for non-profit schools and governments pursuant to a specific type of contract that calculates payments based on the energy produced are not public service corporations under the arizona constitution, and are therefore not regulated by the acc. a second matter is pending with the acc to determine whether that ruling should extend to solar providers who serve a broader customer base under the same business model. the use of such products by customers within our territory would result in some level of competition. aps cannot predict whether the acc will deem these vendors public service corporations subject to acc regulation and when, and the extent to which, additional service providers will enter aps service territory, increasing the level of competition in the market. 30 table of contents operational risks aps results of operations can be adversely affected by various factors impacting demand for electricity. weather conditions. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities. electric power demand is generally a seasonal business. in arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. as a result, aps overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, aps has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. as a result, unusually mild weather could diminish aps results of operations. higher temperatures may decrease the snowpack, which might result in lowered soil moisture and an increased threat of forest fires. forest fires could threaten aps communities and electric transmission lines. any damage caused as a result of forest fires could negatively impact aps results of operations. effects of energy conservation measures and distributed energy. the acc has enacted rules regarding energy efficiency that mandate a 22% annual energy savings requirement by 2020. this will likely increase participation by aps customers in energy efficiency and conservation programs and other demand-side management efforts, which in turn will impact the demand for electricity. the rules also include a requirement for the acc to review and address financial disincentives, recovery of fixed costs and the recovery of net lost income/revenue that would result from lower sales due to increased energy efficiency requirements. to that end, the acc passed a policy statement on per customer revenue decoupling in december of 2010. the policy statement will have no effect on aps rates unless implemented in a rate case. the 2009 retail rate case settlement agreement also establishes energy efficiency goals for aps that begin in 2010 that extend through 2012, subjecting aps to energy efficiency requirements slightly greater for those years than required under the rules described above. aps must also meet certain distributed energy requirements. a portion of aps total renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of distributed energy resources (generally, small scale renewable technologies located on customers properties). the distributed energy requirement is 25% of the overall res requirement of 3% in 2011 and increases to 30% of the applicable res requirement in 2012 and subsequent years. customer participation in distributed energy programs would result in lower demand, since customers would be meeting some or all of their own energy needs. reduced demand due to these energy efficiency and distributed energy requirements, unless offset through ratemaking mechanisms, could have a material adverse impact on aps financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the operation of power generation facilities involves risks that could result in unscheduled power outages or reduced output, which could materially affect aps results of operations . the operation of power generation facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other complications, occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of aps business. if aps facilities operate below expectations, especially during its peak seasons, it may lose revenue or incur additional expenses, including increased purchased power expenses. 31 table of contents the lack of access to sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on aps business and results of operations. assured supplies of water are important for aps generating plants. water in the southwestern united states is limited and various parties have made conflicting claims regarding the right to access and use such limited supply of water. both groundwater and surface water in areas important to aps generating plants have been and are the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings. in addition, the four corners region, in which four corners is located, has been experiencing drought conditions that may affect the water supply for the plants if adequate moisture is not received in the watershed that supplies the area. aps inability to access sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. the ownership and operation of power generation and transmission facilities on indian lands could result in uncertainty related to continued leases, easements and rights-of-way, which could have a significant impact on our business. certain aps power plants, including four corners, and portions of the transmission lines that carry power from these plants are located on indian lands pursuant to leases, easements or other rights-of-way that are effective for specified periods. aps is currently unable to predict the final outcome of discussions with the appropriate indian tribes and approval by their respective governing bodies with respect to renewals of these leases, easements and rights-of-way. there are inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health, fuel supply, spent fuel disposal, regulatory and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack. aps has an ownership interest in and operates, on behalf of a group of participants, palo verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the united states. palo verde is subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as the ability to obtain adequate supplies of nuclear fuel; the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. aps maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. in addition, aps may be required under federal law to pay up to $118 million (but not more than $18 million per year) of liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident occurring not only at palo verde, but at any other nuclear power plant in the united states. although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at palo verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. the operation of palo verde requires licenses that need to be periodically renewed and/or extended. in december 2008, aps applied for renewed operating licenses for all three palo verde units for 20 years beyond the expirations of the current licenses. aps does not anticipate any problems renewing these licenses. however, as a result of potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities, the licensing process could result in increased licensing or compliance costs that are difficult to predict. 32 table of contents the use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. aps operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices. aps is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas and coal to the extent that unhedged positions exist. we have established procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives, including exchange-traded futures and options and over-the-counter forwards, options, and swaps. as part of our overall risk management program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and fuels. the changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity. to the extent that commodity markets are illiquid, we may not be able to execute our risk management strategies, which could result in greater unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given time and financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ( dodd-frank act ), which was signed into law in july 2010, contains measures aimed at increasing the transparency and stability of the over-the counter, or otc, derivative markets and preventing excessive speculation. the dodd-frank act could restrict, among other things, trading positions in the energy futures markets, require different collateral or settlement positions, or increase regulatory reporting over derivative positions. based on the provisions included in the dodd-frank act and the implementation of regulations yet to be developed, these changes could, among other things, impact our ability to hedge commodity price and interest rate risk or increase the costs associated with our hedging programs. we are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties. we use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties. despite the fact that the majority of aps trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default, which could result in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. changes in technology could create challenges for aps existing business. research and development activities are ongoing to assess alternative technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption, including clean coal and coal gasification, renewable technologies including photovoltaic (solar) cells, customer-sited generation (solar) and efficiency technologies, and improvements in traditional technologies and equipment, such as more efficient gas turbines. advances in these, or other technologies could reduce the cost of power production, making aps existing generating facilities less economical. in addition, advances in technology could reduce the demand for power supply, which could adversely affect aps business. aps is pursuing and implementing smart grid technologies, including advanced transmission and distribution system technologies, digital meters enabling two-way communications between the utility and its customers, and electric usage monitoring devices for customers homes and businesses. many of the products and processes resulting from these and other alternative technologies have not yet been widely used or tested, and their use on large-scale systems is not as advanced and established as aps existing technologies and equipment. uncertainties and unknowns related to these and other advancements in technology and equipment could adversely affect aps business if national standards develop that do not embrace the current technologies or if the technologies and equipment fail to perform as expected. in addition, widespread installation and acceptance of these devices could enable the entry of new market participants, such as technology companies, into the interface between aps and its customers. 33 table of contents we are subject to employee workforce factors that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. like most companies in the electric utility industry, our workforce is aging and a number of our employees will become eligible to retire within the next few years. although we have undertaken efforts to recruit and train new employees, we may not be successful. we are subject to other employee workforce factors, such as the availability of qualified personnel, the need to negotiate collective bargaining agreements with union employees and potential work stoppages. exposure to these or other employee workforce factors could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to information security risks. in the regular course of our business we handle a range of sensitive security and customer information. we are subject to laws and rules issued by different agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining the confidentiality of this information. a security breach of our information systems such as theft or the inappropriate release of certain types of information, including confidential customer information or system operating information could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. financial risks financial market disruptions may increase our financing costs or limit our access to the credit and capital markets, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to implement our financial strategy. we rely on access to short-term money markets, longer-term capital markets and the bank market as a significant source of liquidity and for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from our operations. we believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets. however, certain market disruptions may increase our cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to access one or more financial markets. such disruptions could include: continuation of the current economic downturn; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks; mergers among financial institutions and the overall health of the banking industry; or the overall health of the utility industry. in addition, the credit commitments of our lenders under our bank facilities may not be satisfied for a variety of reasons, including unexpected periods of financial distress affecting our lenders, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of our liquidity sources. 34 table of contents changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, which would increase our interest expense on our debt and reduce funds available to us for our current plans. additionally, an increase in our leverage could adversely affect us by: reducing our credit ratings; increasing the cost of future debt financing and refinancing; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and requiring us to dedicate an increased portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes. a reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our current ratings are set forth in liquidity and capital resources credit ratings in item 7. we cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. any downgrade or withdrawal could adversely affect the market price of pinnacle west and aps securities, limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. we would be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. in addition, borrowing costs under certain of our existing credit facilities depend on our credit ratings. a downgrade would also require us to provide substantial additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties. if our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it could completely eliminate any possible future access to the commercial paper market. we note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. market performance, changing interest rates and other economic factors could decrease the value of our benefit plan assets and nuclear decommissioning trust funds and increase our related obligations, resulting in significant additional funding that could negatively impact our business. disruptions in the capital markets and/or decline in market value may adversely affect the values of fixed income and equity investments held in our employee benefit plan trusts and nuclear decommissioning trusts. we have significant obligations in these areas and hold substantial assets in these trusts. a decline in the market value of the investments in these trusts may increase our funding requirements. additionally, the pension plan and other postretirement benefit liabilities are impacted by the discount rate, which is the interest rate used to discount future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. declining interest rates impact the discount rate, and may result in increases in pension and other postretirement benefit costs, cash contributions, regulatory assets, and charges to other comprehensive income. changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. a significant portion of the pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs and all of the nuclear decommissioning costs are recovered in regulated electricity prices. our inability to fully recover these costs in a timely manner or any increased funding obligations could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 35 table of contents we may be required to adopt ifrs. the ultimate adoption of such standards could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. ifrs is a comprehensive series of accounting standards published by the international accounting standards board ( iasb ) that is being considered by the sec to replace accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ( gaap ) for use in preparation of financial statements. if the sec requires mandatory adoption of ifrs, we may lose our ability to use regulatory accounting treatment, and would follow ifrs rather than gaap for the preparation of our financial statements beginning in 2014. in the meantime, the fasb and the iasb are working on several accounting standards jointly to converge certain accounting differences before 2014. the implementation and adoption of these new standards and the inability to use regulatory accounting could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. our cash flow largely depends on the performance of aps. we conduct our operations primarily through our subsidiary, aps. substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by aps. accordingly, our cash flow is dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of aps and its distributions to us. aps is a separate and distinct legal entity and has no obligation to make distributions to us. aps debt agreements may restrict its ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us. in addition, an acc financing order requires aps to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow aps to pay common dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold. the common equity ratio, as defined in the acc order, is total shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long-term debt, including current maturities of long-term debt. pinnacle west ability to meet its debt service obligations could be adversely affected because its debt securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of its subsidiaries. because pinnacle west is structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to our debt securities. the assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service their own debt and other obligations. our ability to have the benefit of their assets and cash flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries, would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their creditors have been satisfied. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our quarterly operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; 36 table of contents developments generally affecting industries in which we operate, particularly the energy distribution and energy generation industries; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; favorable or adverse regulatory or legislative developments; our dividend policy; future sales by the company of equity or equity-linked securities; and general domestic and international economic conditions. in addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of arizona law make it difficult for shareholders to change the composition of our board and may discourage takeover attempts. these provisions, which could preclude our shareholders from receiving a change of control premium, include the following: restrictions on our ability to engage in a wide range of business combination transactions with an interested shareholder (generally, any person who owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting power or any of our affiliates or associates) or any affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, unless specific conditions are met; anti-greenmail provisions of arizona law and our bylaws that prohibit us from purchasing shares of our voting stock from beneficial owners of more than 5% of our outstanding shares unless specified conditions are satisfied; the ability of the board of directors to increase the size of the board and fill vacancies on the board, whether resulting from such increase, or from death, resignation, disqualification or otherwise; and the ability of our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and, with respect to preferred stock, the other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without shareholder approval. while these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. suncor continuing wind-down of its real estate business may give rise to various claims. since 2009, suncor has been engaged in a program to dispose of its homebuilding operations, master-planned communities, land parcels, commercial assets and golf courses in order to reduce its outstanding debt. as of december 31, 2010, suncor had no existing bank debt and had total assets remaining on its books of $16 million, consisting of $8 million of intercompany receivables, $3 million of assets held for sale and $5 million of other assets. suncor is focusing on concluding an orderly wind-down of its business. this effort includes addressing contingent liabilities, such as warranty and construction claims that may be brought by property owners and potential funding obligations to local taxing districts that financed infrastructure at certain of its real estate developments. pinnacle west has not guaranteed any of suncor obligations. suncor remaining business operations, and its ability to generate cash from operations, are minimal. as a result, suncor may seek judicial protection to effectuate a resolution of any claims that cannot be successfully addressed by other means. in such event, pinnacle west could be exposed to the uncertainties and complexities inherent for parent companies in such proceedings. 37 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 78 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see market and credit risks in item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 78 table of contentsrisk factors 24 risk factors in addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results. unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to pinnacle west and its subsidiaries, including aps. aps is subject to comprehensive government regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that could have a material adverse impact on its business, liquidity and results of operations. aps is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence its business, liquidity and results of operations. the acc regulates aps retail electric rates and aps issuance of securities. the acc must also approve any transfer of aps property used to provide retail electric service and approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between us, aps and our respective affiliates. while approved electric rates are intended to permit aps to recover its costs of service and earn a reasonable rate of return, the profitability of aps is affected by the rates it may charge. consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of aps retail rate proceedings and ancillary matters which are before or which may come before the acc. decisions made by the acc could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position or liquidity. aps is required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that regulate aps business. the ferc, the nrc, the epa, and the acc regulate many aspects of our utility operations, including siting and construction of facilities, customer service and, as noted in the preceding paragraph, the rates that aps can charge customers. we believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for aps existing operations and that aps business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. however, changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we are also unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from pending or future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. 24 table of contents the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of noncompliance, the nrc has the authority to impose monetary civil penalties or a progressively increased inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut down of a unit, or both, depending upon the nrc assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. in early 2007, the nrc placed palo verde unit 3 in the multiple/repetitive degraded cornerstone column of the nrc action matrix ( column 4 ), which has resulted in an enhanced nrc inspection regime, including on-site in-depth inspections of palo verde equipment and operations. although only palo verde unit 3 is in nrc column 4, in order to adequately assess the need for improvements, aps management has been conducting site-wide assessments of equipment and operations. aps continues to cooperate fully with the nrc throughout this process. the enhanced nrc inspection regime and aps ongoing commitment to the conservatively safe operation of palo verde could result in nrc action or an aps decision to shut down one or more units in the event of noncompliance with operating requirements or in light of other operational considerations. aps is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that may increase its cost of operations, impact its business plans, or expose it to environmental liabilities. aps is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste, hazardous waste, and coal combustion products, which consist of bottom ash, fly ash and air pollution control wastes. these laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations. these laws and regulations generally require aps to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. if there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approval, or if aps fails to obtain, maintain or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to additional expenses. in addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in civil liability or criminal penalties. both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. we cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. in addition, we may be a responsible party for environmental clean up at sites identified by a regulatory body. we cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up costs. there is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. we cannot be sure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to us. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by aps are not fully recoverable from aps customers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 25 table of contents concern over climate change could result in significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions or related litigation, which may increase aps cost of operations. concern over climate change, deemed by many to be induced by rising levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit co 2 , which is a major byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuel, and other greenhouse gas emissions. in addition, lawsuits have been filed against companies that emit greenhouse gases, including a lawsuit filed against us and several other utilities, seeking damages related to climate change. in the past several years, the united states congress has considered bills that would regulate domestic greenhouse gas emissions, but such bills have not received sufficient congressional approval to date to become law; however, there is growing consensus that some form of regulation or legislation is likely to occur in the near future at the federal level with respect to greenhouse gas emissions. in addition, in 2007, the united states supreme court ruled that greenhouse gases fit within the clean air act broad definition of air pollutant and, as a result, the epa has the authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions of new motor vehicles under the clean air act. if the united states congress, or individual states or groups of states in which we operate, ultimately pass legislation regulating the emissions of greenhouse gases, any resulting limitations on generation facility co 2 and other greenhouse gas emissions could result in the creation of substantial additional capital expenditures and operating costs in the form of taxes, emissions allowances or required equipment upgrades and could have a material adverse impact on all fossil fuel fired generation facilities (particularly coal fired facilities, which constitute approximately 28% of our generation capacity). if the epa determines that greenhouse gas emissions can reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare, this determination may impact other clean air act programs and could potentially result in new regulatory requirements for our power plants, which could also result in substantial additional costs. excessive costs to comply with future legislation or regulations could force aps and other similarly-situated electric power generators to close some coal-fired facilities. there are inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health, regulatory and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack. through aps, we have an ownership interest in and operate, on behalf of a group of owners, palo verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the united states. palo verde is subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. aps maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of noncompliance, the nrc has the authority to impose monetary civil penalties or a progressively increased inspection regime, which could ultimately result in the shut down of a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. see the first risk factor above for a discussion of the enhanced nrc inspection regime currently in effect at palo verde and the related operational and regulatory implications. in addition, although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at palo verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially and 26 table of contents adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. the operation of palo verde requires licenses that need to be periodically renewed and/or extended. in december 2008, we applied for renewed operating licenses for all three palo verde units for 20 years beyond the expirations of the current licenses. we do not anticipate any problems renewing these licenses. however, as a result of potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities, the licensing process could result in increased licensing or compliance costs that are difficult or impossible to predict. the operation of power generation facilities involves risks that could result in unscheduled power outages or reduced output, which could materially affect our results of operations. the operation of power generation facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other complications occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of our business. if aps facilities operate below expectations, we may lose revenue or incur additional expenses, including increased purchased power expenses. the ownership and operation of power generation and transmission facilities on indian lands could result in uncertainty related to continued easements and rights-of-way, which could have a significant impact on our business. certain portions of the transmission lines that carry power from several of our power plants are located on indian lands pursuant to easements or other rights-of-way that are effective for specified periods. we are currently unable to predict the outcome of discussions with the appropriate indian tribes with respect to future renewal of these easements and rights-of-way. deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition, which could have a significant adverse impact on our business and our results of operations. in 1999, the acc approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in arizona. retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on aps due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital. although some very limited retail competition existed in aps service area in 1999 and 2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to aps customers. as a result, we cannot predict when, and the extent to which, additional competitors will re-enter aps service territory. as a result of changes in federal law and regulatory policy, competition in the wholesale electricity market has greatly increased due to a greater participation by traditional electricity suppliers, non-utility generators, independent power producers, and wholesale power marketers and brokers. this increased competition could affect aps load forecasts, plans for power supply and wholesale energy sales and related revenues. as a result of the changing regulatory environment and 27 table of contents the relatively low barriers to entry, we expect wholesale competition to increase, which could adversely affect our business. changes in technology may adversely affect our business. research and development activities are ongoing to improve alternative technologies to produce power, including fuel cells, micro turbines, clean coal and coal gasification, photovoltaic (solar) cells and improvements in traditional technologies and equipment, such as more efficient gas turbines. advances in these, or other technologies could reduce the cost of power production, making aps generating facilities less competitive. in addition, advances in technology could reduce the demand for power supply, which could adversely affect aps business. our results of operations can be adversely affected by weather conditions. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities. electric power demand is generally a seasonal business. in arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. as a result, our overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, aps has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. as a result, unusually mild weather could diminish our results of operations and harm our financial condition. higher temperatures may decrease the snowpack, which might result in lowered soil moisture and an increased threat of forest fires. forest fires could threaten our communities and electric transmission lines. any damage caused as a result of forest fires could negatively impact our results of operations. our results of operations can be adversely affected by current economic conditions. customer growth in aps service territory was 1.4% during 2008. customer growth averaged 3% a year for the three years 2006 through 2008. we currently expect customer growth to decline, averaging about 1% per year for 2009 through 2011 due to factors reflecting the economic conditions both nationally and in arizona. we currently expect our retail sales growth in 2009 to be below average because of potential effects on customer usage from the economic conditions mentioned above and retail rate increases, which would adversely affect our results of operations. the lack of access to sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. assured supplies of water are important for aps generating plants. water in the southwestern united states is limited and various parties have made conflicting claims regarding the right to access and use such limited supply of water. both groundwater and surface water in areas important to aps generating plants have been the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings. in addition, the four corners region, in which four corners is located, has been experiencing drought conditions that may affect the water supply for the plants if adequate moisture is not received in the watershed that supplies the area. our inability to access sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. our cash flow largely depends on the performance of our subsidiaries. 28 table of contents we conduct our operations primarily through subsidiaries. substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by such subsidiaries. accordingly, our cash flow is dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of these subsidiaries and their distributions to us. the subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to make distributions to us. the debt agreements of some of our subsidiaries may restrict their ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us. an acc financing order requires aps to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow aps to pay common dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold. the common equity ratio, as defined in the acc order, is common equity divided by the sum of common equity and long-term debt, including current maturities of long-term debt. our ability to meet our debt service obligations could be adversely affected because our debt securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of our subsidiaries. because we are structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to our debt securities. none of the indentures under which we or our subsidiaries may issue debt securities limits our ability or the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional debt in the future. the assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service their own debt and other obligations. our ability to have the benefit of their assets and cash flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries, would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their creditors have been satisfied. our inability to reduce capital expenditures could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. unexpected developments that may prevent us from reducing capital expenditures and other costs while maintaining reliability and customer service levels could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows or liquidity. financial market disruptions may increase our financing costs or limit our access to the credit markets, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to implement our financial strategy. we rely on access to short-term money markets, longer-term capital markets and the bank markets as a significant source of liquidity and for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from our operations. we believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets. however, certain market disruptions may increase our cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to access one or more financial markets. such disruptions could include: continuation of the current economic downturn; the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company; increased market prices for electricity and gas; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or those of unrelated energy companies; 29 table of contents changes in technology; mergers among financial institutions and the overall health of the banking industry; or the overall health of the utility or real estate industry. in addition, the credit commitments of our lenders under our bank facilities may not be satisfied for a variety of reasons, including unexpected periods of financial distress, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of our liquidity sources. changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, which would increase our interest expense on our debt and reduce funds available to us for our current plans. additionally, an increase in our leverage could adversely affect us by: increasing the cost of future debt financing; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have less debt. recent sub-prime mortgage issues, the collapse of the credit markets, the weak housing market and the overall weakening of the economy have adversely affected the financial markets, generally resulting in increased interest rates for corporate debt, reduced access to the capital markets, and actual or potential downgrades of bond insurers and banks, among other negative matters. in general, the company and aps have been unable to access the commercial paper markets since september 2008. as a result, existing bank lines have been used as a source of liquidity on which we depend. in addition, the interest rates on certain issues of aps pollution control bonds that are periodically reset through auction processes have recently increased. these bonds are supported by bond insurance policies provided by ambac assurance corporation ( ambac ), and the interest rates on those bonds are directly affected by the rating of the bond insurer. we do not expect, however, that any such increase will have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows or liquidity. the 2007 and 2008 financial results of suncor, our real estate subsidiary, reflect the weak real estate market and current economic conditions. suncor principal loan facility is secured primarily by an interest in land, commercial properties, land contracts and homes under construction (the secured revolver ). at december 31, 2008, suncor had borrowings of approximately $120 million under this facility. the secured revolver matures on january 30, 2010. in addition to the secured revolver, at december 31, 2008, suncor had approximately $68 million of outstanding debt under other credit facilities that mature at various dates and also contain certain loan covenants. the majority of this indebtedness is due in 2009, and suncor is in the process of renegotiating these facilities. if suncor is unable to meet its financial covenants under the secured revolver or its other outstanding credit facilities, suncor could be required to immediately repay its outstanding indebtedness under all of its credit facilities as a result of cross-default provisions. such a debt acceleration would have a material adverse impact on suncor business and its financial position. the company has not guaranteed any suncor indebtedness. as a result, the company does not believe that suncor inability to meet its financial covenants under the secured revolver or its other outstanding credit facilities would have a material adverse impact on pinnacle west cash flows or liquidity, although any resulting suncor losses would be reflected in pinnacle west consolidated financial statements. 30 table of contents a reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. any downgrade or withdrawal could adversely affect the market price of pinnacle west and aps securities, limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. we would be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. in addition, borrowing costs under certain of our existing credit facilities depend on our credit ratings. a downgrade would also require us to provide substantial additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties. if our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it could completely eliminate any possible future access to the commercial paper market. we note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. the use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. our operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices and, subject to specified risk parameters, engaging in marketing and trading activities intended to profit from market price movements. we are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas and coal, to the extent that unhedged positions exist. we have established procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives, including exchange-traded futures and options and over-the-counter forwards, options, and swaps. as part of our overall risk management program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and fuels. the changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity. to the extent that commodity markets are illiquid, we may not be able to execute our risk management strategies, which could result in greater unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given time. we are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties. we use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties. despite the fact that the majority of trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default, which could result in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. changing interest rates and market conditions could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. changing interest rates affect interest paid on variable-rate debt and interest earned on variable-rate securities in our pension plan, other postretirement benefit plan and nuclear decommissioning trust funds. our policy is to manage interest rates through the use of a combination of fixed-rate and floating-rate debt. the pension plan and other postretirement benefit liabilities are also impacted by the discount rate, which is the interest rate used to discount future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. declining interest rates impact the discount rate, and may result in increases in pension and other postretirement benefit costs, cash contributions, regulatory assets, and charges to other comprehensive income. the pension plan, other postretirement benefit and 31 table of contents nuclear decommissioning trust funds also have risks associated with changing market values of fixed income and equity investments. a significant portion of the pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs and all of the nuclear decommissioning costs are recovered in regulated electricity prices. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our quarterly operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; developments generally affecting industries in which we operate, particularly the energy distribution and energy generation industries; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; favorable or adverse regulatory or legislative developments; our dividend policy; future sales by the company of equity or equity-linked securities; and general domestic and international economic conditions. in addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. our stock price could be affected because a substantial number of shares of our common stock could be available for sale in the future. sales in the public market of a substantial number of shares of common stock could depress the market price of the common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. because of the number of shares of our common stock that we are authorized to issue under our articles of incorporation, a substantial number of shares of our common stock could be available for future sale. 32 table of contents we may enter into credit and other agreements from time to time that restrict our ability to pay dividends. payment of dividends on our common stock may be restricted by credit and other agreements entered into by us from time to time. there are currently no material restrictions on our ability to pay dividends under any such agreement. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of arizona law make it difficult for shareholders to change the composition of our board and may discourage takeover attempts. these provisions, which could preclude our shareholders from receiving a change of control premium, include the following: restrictions on our ability to engage in a wide range of business combination transactions with an interested shareholder (generally, any person who owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting power or any of our affiliates or associates) or any affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, unless specific conditions are met; anti-greenmail provisions of arizona law and our bylaws that prohibit us from purchasing shares of our voting stock from beneficial owners of more than 5% of our outstanding shares unless specified conditions are satisfied; a requirement that shareholder action be taken only at an annual or special meeting or by unanimous written consent, and bylaws that require that only a majority of our board of directors, the chairman of our board of directors, or our president may call a special meeting of shareholders; advance notice procedures for nominating candidates to our board of directors or presenting matters at shareholder meetings; shareholders may only remove a director with or without cause by a majority vote at a special meeting of shareholders; the ability of the board of directors to increase the size of the board and fill vacancies on the board, whether resulting from such increase, or from death, resignation, disqualification or otherwise; and the ability of our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and, with respect to preferred stock, the other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without shareholder approval. in addition, we have adopted a shareholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals, including takeover proposals that could result in a premium over the market price of our common stock. the shareholder rights plan will expire on march 26, 2009. while these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board to hinder or 33 table of contents frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. suncor business and financial performance could continue to be adversely affected by a variety of factors affecting the real estate market. suncor business and financial performance could continue to be adversely affected by a variety of factors affecting the real estate market, including: downward changes in general economic, real estate construction or other business conditions; the current economic down cycle for the homebuilding industry; the increase in foreclosures; reductions in mortgage availability, future increases in interest rates or increases in the effective costs of owning a home, which could prevent potential customers from buying homes in suncor developments; future increases in interest rates which could limit future sales of commercial property and land; competition for homebuyers or commercial customers or partners, which could reduce suncor profitability; supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials, which could increase costs and delay deliveries; and government regulations, which could increase the cost and limit the availability of suncor development, homebuilding and commercial projects. as noted above (see the risk factor relating to financial market disruptions ), at december 31, 2008, suncor had borrowings of approximately $120 million under its principal loan facility, the secured revolver. the secured revolver matures on january 30, 2010. in addition to the secured revolver, at december 31, 2008, suncor had approximately $68 million of outstanding debt under other credit facilities that mature at various dates and also contain certain loan covenants. the majority of this indebtedness is due in 2009, and suncor is in the process of renegotiating these facilities. if suncor is unable to meet its financial covenants under the secured revolver or its other outstanding credit facilities, suncor could be required to immediately repay its outstanding indebtedness under all of its credit facilities as a result of cross-default provisions. such a debt acceleration would have a material adverse impact on suncor business and its financial position. the company has not guaranteed any suncor indebtedness. as a result, the company does not believe that suncor inability to meet its financial covenants under the secured revolver or its other outstanding credit facilities would have a material adverse impact on pinnacle west cash flows or liquidity, although any resulting suncor losses would be reflected in pinnacle west consolidated financial statements. during 2008 the real estate market weakened significantly resulting in lower land and home sales and depressed real estate prices. as a result, in 2008 we recognized certain impairment charges. if conditions in the broader economy or the real estate markets worsen, or as a result of a change in suncor strategy, we may be required to record additional impairements. 34 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 77 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see factors affecting our financial outlook in item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 78 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk..... 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see "market risks" in item 7 for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 45quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk...... 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see "market risks" in item 7 for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 56quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk........ 71 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see "factors affecting our financial outlook - market risks" in item 7 for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 71 [this page intentionally left blank.] 72quantitative and qualitative quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see factors affecting our financial outlook - market risks in item 7 for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 56quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see pinnacle west consolidated factors affecting our financial outlook in item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 62 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors in addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results. we are subject to comprehensive government regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly affect our business and our results of operations. aps is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence its business and results of operations. the acc regulates aps retail electric rates and aps issuance of securities. the acc must also approve any transfer of aps property used to provide retail electric service and approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between us, aps and our respective affiliates. our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of aps retail rate proceedings pending before the acc. see note 3 of notes to pinnacle west consolidated financial statements in item 8. aps is required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that regulate aps business. the ferc, the nrc, the epa, and the acc regulate many aspects of our utility operations, including siting and construction of facilities, customer service and, as noted in the preceding paragraph, the rates that aps can charge customers. we believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for aps existing operations. however, changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we are also unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from pending or future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. we cannot predict the outcome of aps retail rate proceedings pending before the acc. as noted above, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of aps retail rate proceedings pending before the acc. these proceedings consist of a general retail rate case, an application for an emergency interim rate increase, and an application for two separate surcharges under the psa. see note 3 of notes to pinnacle west consolidated financial statements in item 8. we cannot predict the timing or the outcome of these proceedings or the resulting levels of regulated revenues. we are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that may increase our cost of operations, impact our business plans, or expose us to environmental liabilities. we are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of our present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid 16 table of contents waste, and hazardous waste. these laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations. these laws and regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. we cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. in addition, we may be a responsible party for environmental clean up at sites identified by a regulatory body. we cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up costs. there is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. we cannot be sure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to us. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from aps customers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. there are inherent risks in the operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack. through aps, we have an ownership interest in and operate, on behalf of a group of owners, palo verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the united states. palo verde is subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel, the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities, and the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. we maintain nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize our financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of noncompliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. in addition, although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at palo verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. 17 table of contents deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition, which could have a significant adverse impact on our business and our financial results. in 1999, the acc approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in arizona. retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on us due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital. although some very limited retail competition existed in the service area of aps in 1999 and 2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to aps customers. as a result, we cannot predict when, and the extent to which, additional competitors will re-enter aps service territory. as a result of changes in federal law and regulatory policy, competition in the wholesale electricity market has greatly increased due to a greater participation by traditional electricity suppliers, non-utility generators, independent power producers, and wholesale power marketers and brokers. this increased competition could affect our load forecasts, plans for power supply and wholesale energy sales and related revenues. as a result of the changing regulatory environment and the relatively low barriers to entry, we expect wholesale competition to increase. our results of operations can be adversely affected by milder weather. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities. electric power demand is generally a seasonal business. in arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. as a result, our overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, we have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. as a result, unusually mild weather could diminish our results of operations and harm our financial condition. our cash flow largely depends on the performance of our subsidiaries. we conduct our operations primarily through subsidiaries. substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by such subsidiaries. accordingly, our cash flow is dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of these subsidiaries and their distributions to us. the subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to make distributions to us. the debt agreements of some of our subsidiaries may restrict their ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us. an acc financing order requires aps to indefinitely maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow aps to pay common dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold. as defined in the acc financing order approving the arrangement, common equity ratio is common equity divided by common equity plus long-term debt, including current maturities of long-term debt. at december 31, 2005, aps common equity ratio, as defined, was approximately 54%. 18 table of contents our ability to meet our debt service obligations could be adversely affected because our debt securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of our subsidiaries. because we are structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to our debt securities. none of the indentures under which we or our subsidiaries may issue debt securities limits our ability or the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional debt in the future. the assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service their own debt and other obligations. our ability to have the benefit of their assets and cash flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries, would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their creditors have been satisfied. if we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, our ability to implement our financial strategy will be adversely affected. we rely on access to short-term money markets, longer-term capital markets and the bank markets as a significant source of liquidity and for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from our operations. we believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. however, certain market disruptions may increase our cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to access one or more financial markets. such disruptions could include: an economic downturn; the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company; increased market prices for electricity and gas; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or those of unrelated energy companies; or the overall health of the utility industry. changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, which would increase our interest expense on our debt and reduce funds available to us for our current plans. additionally, an increase in our leverage could adversely affect us by: increasing the cost of future debt financing; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. 19 table of contents a further reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. any downgrade could increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. we would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. in addition, borrowing costs under certain of our existing credit facilities depend on our credit ratings. a downgrade could also require us to provide additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties. if our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it could limit our access to the commercial paper market. we note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. the use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business and changing interest rates and market conditions could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. our operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices and, subject to specified risk parameters, engaging in marketing and trading activities intended to profit from market price movements. we are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas, coal, and emissions allowances. we have established procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives, including exchange-traded futures and options and over-the-counter forwards, options, and swaps. as part of our overall risk management program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge purchases and sales of electricity, fuels, and emissions allowances and credits. the changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity. we are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties. we use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties. despite the fact that the majority of trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default, resulting in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. changing interest rates will affect interest paid on variable-rate debt and interest earned on variable-rate securities in our pension plan and nuclear decommissioning trust funds. our policy is to manage interest rates through the use of a combination of fixed-rate and floating-rate debt. the pension plan is also impacted by the discount rate, which is the interest rate used to discount future pension obligations. declining interest rates impact the discount rate, and may result in increases in pension costs, cash contributions, and charges to other comprehensive income. the pension plan and nuclear decommissioning trust funds also have risks associated with changing market values of fixed income and equity investments. a significant portion of the pension costs and all of the nuclear decommissioning costs are recovered in regulated electricity prices. actual results could differ from estimates used to prepare our financial statements. in preparing our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america, management must often make estimates and assumptions 20 table of contents that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures at the date of the financial statements and during the reporting period. some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and actual results could differ from those estimates. we consider the following accounting policies to be our most critical because of the uncertainties, judgments and complexities of the underlying accounting standards and operations involved. regulatory accounting regulatory accounting allows for the actions of regulators, such as the acc and the ferc, to be reflected in our financial statements. their actions may cause us to capitalize costs that would otherwise be included as an expense in the current period by unregulated companies. if future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the assets would be written off as a charge in current period earnings. a major component of our regulatory assets is the retail fuel and purchased power costs deferred under the psa. aps defers for future rate recovery 90% of the difference between actual retail fuel and purchased power costs and the amount of such costs currently included in base rates. we had $324 million, including $173 million related to the psa, of regulatory assets on the consolidated balance sheets at december 31, 2005. included in the $173 million is approximately $45 million related to the 2005 unplanned palo verde outages, which currently are the subject of inquiry by the acc. since december 25, 2005, palo verde unit 1 has been operating at reduced power levels due to a non-safety related acoustic impact in one of the unit shutdown cooling lines. unit 1 is currently operating at approximately 25% power. aps estimates that these reduced power levels and a planned unit 1 outage to resolve the unit 1 issue will result in additional psa deferrals of approximately $85 million pretax in 2006. see notes 1 and 3 for more information about regulatory assets and liabilities, aps pending retail rate proceedings, and the psa. pensions and other postretirement benefit accounting changes in our actuarial assumptions used in calculating our pension and other postretirement benefit liability and expense can have a significant impact on our earnings and financial position. the most relevant actuarial assumptions are the discount rate used to measure our liability and net periodic cost, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used to estimate earnings on invested funds over the long-term, and the assumed healthcare cost trend rates. we review these assumptions on an annual basis and adjust them as necessary. derivative accounting derivative accounting requires evaluation of rules that are complex and subject to varying interpretations. our evaluation of these rules, as they apply to our contracts, will determine whether we use accrual accounting (for contracts designated as normal) or fair value (mark-to-market) accounting. mark-to-market accounting requires that changes in the fair value are recognized periodically in income unless certain hedge criteria are met. for fair value hedges, the gain or loss on the derivative as well as the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item associated with the hedged risk are recognized in earnings. for cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognized in common stock 21 table of contents equity (as a component of other comprehensive income (loss)) and are recognized in earnings when the related transaction occurs. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our quarterly operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; developments generally affecting industries in which we operate, particularly the energy distribution and energy generation industries; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; favorable or adverse regulatory developments; our dividend policy; future sale of our equity or equity-linked securities; and general domestic and international economic conditions. in addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. we may enter into credit and other agreements from time to time that restrict our ability to pay dividends. payment of dividends on our common stock may be restricted by credit and other agreements entered into by us from time to time. at december 31, 2005, there were no material restrictions on our ability to pay dividends under any such agreement. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see pinnacle west consolidated factors affecting our financial outlook in item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 65 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors in addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results. unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to pinnacle west and its subsidiaries, including aps. 15 table of contents aps is subject to comprehensive government regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly affect its business and results of operations. aps is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence its business and results of operations. the acc regulates aps retail electric rates and aps issuance of securities. the acc must also approve any transfer of aps property used to provide retail electric service and approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between us, aps and our respective affiliates. while approved electric rates are intended to permit aps to recover its costs of service and earn a reasonable rate of return, the profitability of aps is affected by the rates it may charge. consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of aps retail rate proceedings pending before the acc. aps is required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that regulate aps business. the ferc, the nrc, the epa, and the acc regulate many aspects of our utility operations, including siting and construction of facilities, customer service and, as noted in the preceding paragraph, the rates that aps can charge customers. we believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for aps existing operations and that aps business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. however, changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we are also unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from pending or future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. on february 22, 2007, the nrc issued a white finding (low to moderate safety significance) following an inspection of the palo verde emergency diesel generators after a palo verde unit 3 generator did not activate during routine inspections on july 25 and september 22, 2006. this finding, coupled with a previous nrc yellow finding relating to a 2004 matter involving palo verde safety injection systems, will result in an enhanced nrc inspection regimen. aps is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that may increase its cost of operations, impact its business plans, or expose it to environmental liabilities. aps is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste, and hazardous waste. these laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations. these laws and regulations generally require aps to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. if there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approval, or if aps fails to obtain, maintain or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to additional expenses. in addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in civil liability or criminal penalties. both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. we cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. in addition, we may be a responsible party for environmental clean up at sites identified by a regulatory body. we cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up costs. there is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. we cannot be sure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to us. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by aps are not fully recoverable from aps 16 table of contents customers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. concern over climate change could result in significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. concern over climate change deemed by many to be induced by rising levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. in 1998, the united states became a signatory to the kyoto protocol of the united nations framework convention on climate change . the kyoto protocol, which became effective in february 2005, calls for developed nations to reduce their emissions of greenhouse gases to specified levels by 2012. co2, which is a major byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuel, is a greenhouse gas that would be regulated under the kyoto protocol. the united states senate indicated that it would not enact the kyoto protocol, and in 2002 president bush confirmed that the united states would not enter into the kyoto protocol. instead, the president indicated that the united states would support voluntary measures for reducing greenhouse gases and technologies that would use or dispose of co2 effectively and economically. as the kyoto protocol becomes effective in other countries, there is increasing pressure for sources in the united states to be subject to mandatory restrictions on co2 emissions. in the last year, the united states congress has considered bills that would regulate domestic greenhouse gas emissions, but such bills have not received sufficient congressional approval to date to become law. if the united states ultimately ratifies the kyoto protocol and/or if the united states congress or individual states or groups of states in which we operate ultimately pass legislation regulating the emissions of greenhouse gases, any resulting limitations on generation facility co2 emissions could have a material adverse impact on all fossil fuel fired generation facilities (particularly coal fired facilities), including ours. there are inherent risks in the operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack. through aps, we have an ownership interest in and operate, on behalf of a group of owners, palo verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the united states. palo verde is subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. aps maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of noncompliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. in addition, although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at palo verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. 17 table of contents the operation of palo verde requires licenses that need to be periodically renewed and/or extended. we do not anticipate any problems renewing these licenses. however, as a result of potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities, the licensing process could result in increased licensing or compliance costs that are difficult or impossible to predict. the operation of power generation facilities involves risks that could result in unscheduled power outages or reduced output, which could materially affect our results of operations. the operation of power generation facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other complications occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of our business. if aps facilities operate below expectations, we may lose revenue or incur additional expenses. deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition, which could have a significant adverse impact on our business and our financial results. in 1999, the acc approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in arizona. retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on aps due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital. although some very limited retail competition existed in aps service area in 1999 and 2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to aps customers. as a result, we cannot predict when, and the extent to which, additional competitors will re-enter aps service territory. as a result of changes in federal law and regulatory policy, competition in the wholesale electricity market has greatly increased due to a greater participation by traditional electricity suppliers, non-utility generators, independent power producers, and wholesale power marketers and brokers. this increased competition could affect aps load forecasts, plans for power supply and wholesale energy sales and related revenues. as a result of the changing regulatory environment and the relatively low barriers to entry, we expect wholesale competition to increase. changes in technology may adversely affect our business. research and development activities are ongoing to improve alternative technologies to produce power, including fuel cells, micro turbines, clean coal and coal gasification, photovoltaic (solar) cells and improvements in traditional technologies and equipment, such as more efficient gas turbines. advances in these, or other technologies could reduce the cost of power production, making aps generating facilities less competitive. in addition, advances in technology could reduce the demand for power supply, which could adversely affect aps business. our results of operations can be adversely affected by milder weather. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities. electric power demand is generally a seasonal business. in arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. as a 18 table of contents result, our overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, aps has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. as a result, unusually mild weather could diminish our results of operations and harm our financial condition. our cash flow largely depends on the performance of our subsidiaries. we conduct our operations primarily through subsidiaries. substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by such subsidiaries. accordingly, our cash flow is dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of these subsidiaries and their distributions to us. the subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to make distributions to us. the debt agreements of some of our subsidiaries may restrict their ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us. an acc financing order requires aps to indefinitely maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow aps to pay common dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold. the common equity ratio, as defined in the acc order, is common equity divided by common equity plus long-term debt, including current maturities of long-term debt. our ability to meet our debt service obligations could be adversely affected because our debt securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of our subsidiaries. because we are structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to our debt securities. none of the indentures under which we or our subsidiaries may issue debt securities limits our ability or the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional debt in the future. the assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service their own debt and other obligations. our ability to have the benefit of their assets and cash flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries, would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their creditors have been satisfied. if we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, our ability to implement our financial strategy will be adversely affected. we rely on access to short-term money markets, longer-term capital markets and the bank markets as a significant source of liquidity and for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from our operations. we believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. however, certain market disruptions may increase our cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to access one or more financial markets. such disruptions could include: an economic downturn; the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company; increased market prices for electricity and gas; 19 table of contents terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or those of unrelated energy companies; changes in technology; or the overall health of the utility or real estate industry. changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, which would increase our interest expense on our debt and reduce funds available to us for our current plans. additionally, an increase in our leverage could adversely affect us by: increasing the cost of future debt financing; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. a further reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. any downgrade could limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. we would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. in addition, borrowing costs under certain of our existing credit facilities depend on our credit ratings. a downgrade could also require us to provide additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties. if our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it could limit our access to the commercial paper market. we note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. the use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business and changing interest rates and market conditions could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. our operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices and, subject to specified risk parameters, engaging in marketing and trading activities intended to profit from market price movements. we are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas, coal, and emissions allowances. we have established procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives, including exchange-traded futures and options and over-the-counter forwards, options, and swaps. as part of our overall risk management program, we enter into derivative transactions to 20 table of contents hedge purchases and sales of electricity, fuels, and emissions allowances and credits. the changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity. we are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties. we use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties. despite the fact that the majority of trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default, resulting in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. changing interest rates affect interest paid on variable-rate debt and interest earned on variable-rate securities in our pension plan, other postretirement benefit plan and nuclear decommissioning trust funds. our policy is to manage interest rates through the use of a combination of fixed-rate and floating-rate debt. the pension plan and other postretirement benefit liabilities are also impacted by the discount rate, which is the interest rate used to discount future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. declining interest rates impact the discount rate, and may result in increases in pension and other postretirement benefit costs, cash contributions, regulatory assets, and charges to other comprehensive income. the pension plan, other postretirement benefit and nuclear decommissioning trust funds also have risks associated with changing market values of fixed income and equity investments. a significant portion of the pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs and all of the nuclear decommissioning costs are recovered in regulated electricity prices. actual results could differ from estimates used to prepare our financial statements. in preparing our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america, management must often make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures at the date of the financial statements and during the reporting period. some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and actual results could differ from those estimates. we consider the following accounting policies to be our most critical because of the uncertainties, judgments and complexities of the underlying accounting standards and operations involved. regulatory accounting regulatory accounting allows for the actions of regulators, such as the acc and the ferc, to be reflected in our financial statements. their actions may cause us to capitalize costs that would otherwise be included as an expense in the current period by unregulated companies. if future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the assets would be written off as a charge in current period earnings. a major component of our regulatory assets is the retail fuel and purchased power costs deferred under the psa, a portion of which is subject to a prudence review by the acc as a result of unplanned palo verde outages in 2005 and 2006. pensions and other postretirement benefit accounting changes in our actuarial assumptions used in calculating our pension and other postretirement benefit liability and expense can have a significant impact on our earnings and financial position. the most relevant actuarial assumptions are the discount rate used to measure our liability and net periodic cost, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used to estimate earnings on invested funds over the long-term, and the assumed healthcare cost trend rates. we review these assumptions on an annual basis and adjust them as necessary. 21 table of contents derivative accounting derivative accounting requires evaluation of rules that are complex and subject to varying interpretations. our evaluation of these rules, as they apply to our contracts, will determine whether we use accrual accounting (for contracts designated as normal) or fair value (mark-to-market) accounting. mark-to-market accounting requires that changes in the fair value are recognized periodically in income unless certain hedge criteria are met. for fair value hedges, the gain or loss on the derivative as well as the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item associated with the hedged risk are recognized in earnings. for cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognized in common stock equity (as a component of other comprehensive income (loss)) and are recognized in earnings when the related transaction occurs. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our quarterly operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; developments generally affecting industries in which we operate, particularly the energy distribution and energy generation industries; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; favorable or adverse regulatory developments; our dividend policy; future sale of our equity or equity-linked securities; and general domestic and international economic conditions. in addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 22 table of contents we may enter into credit and other agreements from time to time that restrict our ability to pay dividends. payment of dividends on our common stock may be restricted by credit and other agreements entered into by us from time to time. there are currently no material restrictions on our ability to pay dividends under any such agreement. suncor business and financial performance could be adversely affected by a variety of factors affecting the real estate market. suncor business and financial performance could be adversely affected by a variety of factors affecting the real estate market, including downward changes in general economic, real estate construction or other business conditions; the potential overvaluation of land and new homes, which could result in an economic down cycle for the homebuilding industry; future increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability or increases in the effective costs of owning a home, which could prevent potential customers from buying homes in suncor developments; competition for homebuyers or commercial customers or partners, which could reduce suncor profitability; supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials, which could increase costs and delay deliveries; government regulations, which could increase the cost and limit the availability of suncor development, homebuilding and commercial projects; and inflation, which could result in increased costs that suncor may not be able to recoup if demand declines. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see pinnacle west consolidated factors affecting our financial outlook in item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 67 table of contentsrisk factors 21 risk factors in addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results. unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to pinnacle west and its subsidiaries, including aps. aps is subject to comprehensive government regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that could have a material adverse impact on its business and results of operations. aps is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence its business and results of operations. the acc regulates aps retail electric rates and aps issuance of securities. the acc must also approve any transfer of aps property used to provide retail electric service and approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between us, aps and our respective affiliates. while approved electric rates are intended to permit aps to recover its costs of service and earn a reasonable rate of return, the profitability of aps is affected by the rates it may charge. consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of aps retail rate proceedings and ancillary matters which are before or which may come before the acc. aps is required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the agencies that regulate aps business. the ferc, the nrc, the epa, and the acc regulate many aspects of our utility operations, including siting and construction of facilities, customer service and, as noted in the preceding paragraph, the rates that aps can charge customers. we believe the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for aps existing operations and that aps business is 21 table of contents conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. however, changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we are also unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from pending or future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of noncompliance, the nrc has the authority to impose monetary civil penalties or a progressively increased inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut down of a unit, or both, depending upon the nrc assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. in early 2007, the nrc placed palo verde unit 3 in the multiple/repetitive degraded cornerstone column of the nrc action matrix ( column 4 ), which has resulted in an enhanced nrc inspection regime, including on-site in-depth inspections of palo verde equipment and operations. although only palo verde unit 3 is in nrc column 4, in order to adequately assess the need for improvements, aps management has been conducting site-wide assessments of equipment and operations. aps continues to cooperate fully with the nrc throughout this process. the enhanced nrc inspection regime and aps ongoing commitment to the conservatively safe operation of palo verde could result in nrc action or an aps decision to shut down one or more units in the event of noncompliance with operating requirements or in light of other operational considerations. aps is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that may increase its cost of operations, impact its business plans, or expose it to environmental liabilities. aps is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste, and hazardous waste. these laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations. these laws and regulations generally require aps to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. if there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approval, or if aps fails to obtain, maintain or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to additional expenses. in addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in civil liability or criminal penalties. both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. we cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. in addition, we may be a responsible party for environmental clean up at sites identified by a regulatory body. we cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up costs. there is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. we cannot be sure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to us. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by aps are not fully recoverable from aps customers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 22 table of contents concern over climate change could result in significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions or related litigation, which may increase aps cost of operations. concern over climate change, deemed by many to be induced by rising levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit co 2 , which is a major byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuel, and other greenhouse gas emissions. in addition, lawsuits have been filed against companies that emit greenhouse gasses, including a recent lawsuit filed against us and several other utilities, seeking damages related to climate change. in the past several years, the united states congress has considered bills that would regulate domestic greenhouse gas emissions, but such bills have not received sufficient congressional approval to date to become law; however, there is growing consensus that some form of regulation or legislation is likely to occur in the near future at the federal level with respect to greenhouse gas emissions. if the united states congress, or individual states or groups of states in which we operate, ultimately pass legislation regulating the emissions of greenhouse gases, any resulting limitations on generation facility co 2 and other greenhouse gas emissions could result in the creation of substantial additional costs in the form of taxes, emissions allowances or required equipment upgrades and could have a material adverse impact on all fossil fuel fired generation facilities (particularly coal fired facilities), including ours. there are inherent risks in the operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack. through aps, we have an ownership interest in and operate, on behalf of a group of owners, palo verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the united states. palo verde is subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. aps maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. in the event of noncompliance, the nrc has the authority to impose monetary civil penalties or a progressively increased inspection regime, which could ultimately result in the shut down of a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. see the first risk factor above for a discussion of the enhanced nrc inspection regime currently in effect at palo verde and the related operational and regulatory implications. in addition, although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at palo verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. the operation of palo verde requires licenses that need to be periodically renewed and/or extended. we do not anticipate any problems renewing these licenses. however, as a result of potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities, the licensing process could result in increased licensing or compliance costs that are difficult or impossible to predict. 23 table of contents the operation of power generation facilities involves risks that could result in unscheduled power outages or reduced output, which could materially affect our results of operations. the operation of power generation facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other complications occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of our business. if aps facilities operate below expectations, we may lose revenue or incur additional expenses. deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition, which could have a significant adverse impact on our business and our financial results. in 1999, the acc approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in arizona. retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on aps due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital. although some very limited retail competition existed in aps service area in 1999 and 2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to aps customers. as a result, we cannot predict when, and the extent to which, additional competitors will re-enter aps service territory. as a result of changes in federal law and regulatory policy, competition in the wholesale electricity market has greatly increased due to a greater participation by traditional electricity suppliers, non-utility generators, independent power producers, and wholesale power marketers and brokers. this increased competition could affect aps load forecasts, plans for power supply and wholesale energy sales and related revenues. as a result of the changing regulatory environment and the relatively low barriers to entry, we expect wholesale competition to increase. changes in technology may adversely affect our business. research and development activities are ongoing to improve alternative technologies to produce power, including fuel cells, micro turbines, clean coal and coal gasification, photovoltaic (solar) cells and improvements in traditional technologies and equipment, such as more efficient gas turbines. advances in these, or other technologies could reduce the cost of power production, making aps generating facilities less competitive. in addition, advances in technology could reduce the demand for power supply, which could adversely affect aps business. our results of operations can be adversely affected by weather conditions. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities. electric power demand is generally a seasonal business. in arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. as a result, our overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, aps has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. as a result, unusually mild weather could diminish our results of operations and harm our financial condition. 24 table of contents our cash flow largely depends on the performance of our subsidiaries. we conduct our operations primarily through subsidiaries. substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by such subsidiaries. accordingly, our cash flow is dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of these subsidiaries and their distributions to us. the subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to make distributions to us. the debt agreements of some of our subsidiaries may restrict their ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us. an acc financing order requires aps to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow aps to pay common dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold. the common equity ratio, as defined in the acc order, is common equity divided by the sum of common equity and long-term debt, including current maturities of long-term debt. our ability to meet our debt service obligations could be adversely affected because our debt securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of our subsidiaries. because we are structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to our debt securities. none of the indentures under which we or our subsidiaries may issue debt securities limits our ability or the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional debt in the future. the assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service their own debt and other obligations. our ability to have the benefit of their assets and cash flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries, would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their creditors have been satisfied. financial market disruptions may increase our financing costs or limit our access to the credit markets, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to implement our financial strategy. we rely on access to short-term money markets, longer-term capital markets and the bank markets as a significant source of liquidity and for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from our operations. we believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. however, certain market disruptions may increase our cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to access one or more financial markets. such disruptions could include: an economic downturn; the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company; increased market prices for electricity and gas; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or those of unrelated energy companies; changes in technology; or 25 table of contents the overall health of the utility or real estate industry. changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, which would increase our interest expense on our debt and reduce funds available to us for our current plans. additionally, an increase in our leverage could adversely affect us by: increasing the cost of future debt financing; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have less debt. recent sub-prime mortgage issues have adversely affected the overall financial markets, generally resulting in increased interest rates, reduced access to the capital markets, and actual or potential downgrades of bond insurers, among other negative matters. the interest rates on certain issues of aps pollution control bonds are periodically reset through auction processes. these bonds are supported by bond insurance policies provided by ambac, and the interest rates on those bonds are directly affected by the rating of the bond insurer. accordingly, interest rates on these bonds have recently increased. we do not expect, however, that any such increase will have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows or liquidity. a reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. any downgrade could limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. we would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. in addition, borrowing costs under certain of our existing credit facilities depend on our credit ratings. a downgrade could also require us to provide additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties. if our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it could limit our access to the commercial paper market. we note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. the use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business and changing interest rates and market conditions could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. our operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices and, subject to specified risk parameters, engaging in marketing and trading activities intended to profit from market price movements. we are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas, coal, and emissions allowances. we have established procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity 26 table of contents derivatives, including exchange-traded futures and options and over-the-counter forwards, options, and swaps. as part of our overall risk management program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge purchases and sales of electricity, fuels, and emissions allowances and credits. the changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity. we are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties. we use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties. despite the fact that the majority of trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default, resulting in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. changing interest rates affect interest paid on variable-rate debt and interest earned on variable-rate securities in our pension plan, other postretirement benefit plan and nuclear decommissioning trust funds. our policy is to manage interest rates through the use of a combination of fixed-rate and floating-rate debt. the pension plan and other postretirement benefit liabilities are also impacted by the discount rate, which is the interest rate used to discount future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. declining interest rates impact the discount rate, and may result in increases in pension and other postretirement benefit costs, cash contributions, regulatory assets, and charges to other comprehensive income. the pension plan, other postretirement benefit and nuclear decommissioning trust funds also have risks associated with changing market values of fixed income and equity investments. a significant portion of the pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs and all of the nuclear decommissioning costs are recovered in regulated electricity prices. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our quarterly operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; developments generally affecting industries in which we operate, particularly the energy distribution and energy generation industries; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; favorable or adverse regulatory or legislative developments; our dividend policy; 27 table of contents future sale of equity or equity-linked securities; and general domestic and international economic conditions. in addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. we may enter into credit and other agreements from time to time that restrict our ability to pay dividends. payment of dividends on our common stock may be restricted by credit and other agreements entered into by us from time to time. there are currently no material restrictions on our ability to pay dividends under any such agreement. suncor business and financial performance could be adversely affected by a variety of factors affecting the real estate market. suncor business and financial performance could continue to be adversely affected by a variety of factors affecting the real estate market, including downward changes in general economic, real estate construction or other business conditions; the potential overvaluation of land and new homes, which could result in an economic down cycle for the homebuilding industry; future increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability or increases in the effective costs of owning a home, which could prevent potential customers from buying homes in suncor developments; competition for homebuyers or commercial customers or partners, which could reduce suncor profitability; supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials, which could increase costs and delay deliveries; government regulations, which could increase the cost and limit the availability of suncor development, homebuilding and commercial projects; and inflation, which could result in increased costs that suncor may not be able to recoup if demand declines. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see pinnacle west consolidated factors affecting our financial outlook in item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 72 table of contentsrisk factors 26 risk factors in addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results. unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to pinnacle west and its subsidiaries, including aps. regulatory risks our financial condition depends upon aps ability to recover costs in a timely manner from customers through regulated rates and otherwise execute its business strategy. aps is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence its business, liquidity, results of operations and its ability to fully recover costs from utility customers in a timely manner. the acc regulates aps retail electric rates and the ferc regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services. the profitability of aps is affected by the rates it may charge and the timeliness of recovering costs incurred through its rates. consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of any aps rate proceedings and ancillary matters which may come before the acc and the ferc. arizona, like certain other states, has a statute that allows the acc to reopen prior decisions and modify final orders under certain circumstances. the acc must also approve aps issuance of securities and any transfer of aps property used to provide retail electric service, and must approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between us, aps and our respective affiliates. decisions made by the acc or the ferc could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. aps ability to conduct its business operations and avoid fines and penalties depends upon compliance with federal, state or local statutes, regulations and acc requirements, and obtaining and maintaining certain regulatory permits, approvals and certificates. aps must comply in good faith with all applicable statutes, regulations, rules, tariffs, and orders of agencies that regulate aps business, including the ferc, the nrc, the epa, the acc and state and local governmental agencies. these agencies regulate many aspects of aps utility operations, including safety and performance, emissions, siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that aps can charge retail and wholesale customers. failure to comply can subject aps to, among other things, fines and penalties. for example, under the energy policy act of 2005, the ferc can impose penalties (up to one million dollars per day per violation) for failure to comply with mandatory electric reliability standards. in addition to penalties, aps may be unable to recover certain costs if, for example, it fails to implement any of its annual acc-approved renewable implementation plans. aps is also required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies. aps believes the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that aps business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. however, changes in regulations or the imposition of new or revised laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we are also unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from pending or future regulatory activities of any of these agencies . 26 table of contents the operation of aps nuclear power plant exposes it to substantial regulatory oversight and potentially significant liabilities and capital expenditures. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. events at nuclear facilities of other operators or impacting the industry generally may lead the nrc to impose additional requirements and regulations on existing and new facilities. as a result of the march 2011 earthquake and tsunami that caused significant damage to the fukushima daiichi nuclear power plant in japan, various industry organizations are working to analyze information from the japan incident and develop action plans for u.s. nuclear power plants. additionally, the nrc is performing its own independent review of the events at fukushima daiichi, including a review of the agency processes and regulations in order to determine whether the agency should promulgate additional regulations and possibly make more fundamental changes to the nrc system of regulation. we cannot predict when or if the nrc will take formal action as a result of its review. the financial and/or operational impacts on palo verde and aps may be significant. in the event of noncompliance with its requirements, the nrc has the authority to impose monetary civil penalties or a progressively increased inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut-down of a unit, or both, depending upon the nrc assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. the increased costs resulting from penalties, a heightened level of scrutiny and implementation of plans to achieve compliance with nrc requirements may adversely affect aps financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. aps is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, and changes in, or liabilities under, existing or new laws or regulations may increase aps cost of operations or impact its business plans. aps is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste, hazardous waste, and coal combustion products, which consist of bottom ash, fly ash, and air pollution control wastes. these laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations. these laws and regulations generally require aps to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, and other approvals. if there is a delay or failure to obtain any required environmental regulatory approval, or if aps fails to obtain, maintain, or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to additional expenses. in addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in civil liability or criminal penalties. both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. aps cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. environmental clean up. aps has been named as a prp for a superfund site in phoenix, arizona and it could be named a prp in the future for other environmental clean up at sites identified by a regulatory body. aps cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean up costs. there is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. 27 table of contents regional haze. aps is currently awaiting a final rulemaking from the epa that could impose new requirements on four corners and the navajo plant. aps is also awaiting the epa issuance of a fip or partial fip that could impose new requirements on cholla. the epa and adeq will require these plants to install pollution control equipment that constitutes the best available retrofit technology to lessen the impacts of emissions on visibility surrounding the plants. depending upon the agencies final determinations of what constitutes bart for these plants, the financial impact of installing and operating the required pollution control equipment could jeopardize the economic viability of the plants or the ability of individual participants to continue their participation in these plants, resulting in plant closures and asset impairments. coal ash. the epa released proposed regulations governing the disposal of ccrs, which are generated as a result of burning coal and consist of, among other things, fly ash and bottom ash. the epa proposed regulating ccrs as either non-hazardous or hazardous waste. aps currently disposes of ccrs in ash ponds and dry storage areas at four corners and cholla, and also sells a portion of its fly ash for beneficial reuse as a constituent in concrete products. if the epa regulates ccrs as a hazardous solid waste or phases out aps ability to dispose of ccrs through the use of ash ponds, aps could incur significant costs for ccr disposal and may be unable to continue its sale of fly ash for beneficial reuse. new source review. the epa has taken the position that many projects electric utilities have performed are major modifications that trigger new source review requirements under the clean air act. the utilities generally have taken the position that these projects are routine maintenance and did not result in emissions increases, and thus are not subject to new source review. in 2009, aps received and responded to a request from the epa regarding projects and operations of four corners. an environmental organization filed suit against the four corners participants for alleged violations of new source review and the nsps programs of the clean air act. if the epa seeks to impose new source review requirements at four corners or any other aps plant, or if the citizens group prevails in its lawsuit, significant capital investments could be required to install new pollution control technologies. the epa could also seek civil penalties. aps cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to it. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by aps are not fully recoverable from aps customers, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. aps faces physical and operational risks related to climate change, and potential financial risks resulting from climate change litigation and legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. concern over climate change, deemed by many to be induced by rising levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit co 2 , which is a major byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuel, and other greenhouse gas emissions. in addition, lawsuits have been filed against companies that emit greenhouse gases, including a lawsuit filed by the native village of kivalina and the city of kivalina, alaska against us and several other utilities seeking damages related to climate change. financial risks potential legislation and regulation . it is possible that some form of legislation or epa action to regulate domestic greenhouse gas emissions may occur in the future at the 28 table of contents federal level. if the united states congress, or individual states or groups of states in which aps operates, ultimately pass legislation, or if the epa promulgates additional regulations regulating the emissions of greenhouse gases, any resulting limitations on co 2 and other greenhouse gas emissions could result in the creation of substantial additional capital expenditures and operating costs in the form of taxes, emissions allowances, or required equipment upgrades and could have a material adverse impact on all fossil-fuel-fired generation facilities (particularly coal-fired facilities, which constitute approximately 28% of aps generation capacity). at the state level, the california legislature enacted legislation to address greenhouse gas emissions and the california air resources board approved regulations that will establish a cap-and-trade program for greenhouse gas. this legislation, regulation and other state-specific initiatives may affect aps business, including sales into the impacted states or the ability of its out-of-state power plant participants to continue their participation in certain coal-fired power plants, including four corners following 2016. physical and operational risks. weather extremes such as drought and high temperature variations are common occurrences in the southwest desert area, and these are risks that aps considers in the normal course of business in the engineering and construction of its electric system. large increases in ambient temperatures could require evaluation of certain materials used within its system and represent a greater challenge. deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition, which could have a significant adverse impact on aps business and its results of operations. in 1999, the acc approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in arizona. retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on aps due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital. although some very limited retail competition existed in aps service area in 1999 and 2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to aps customers. as a result, aps cannot predict if, when, and the extent to which, additional competitors may re-enter aps service territory. in 2010, the acc issued a decision holding that solar vendors that install and operate solar facilities for non-profit schools and governments pursuant to a specific type of contract that calculates payments based on the energy produced are not public service corporations under the arizona constitution, and are therefore not regulated by the acc. a second matter is pending with the acc to determine whether that ruling should extend to solar providers who serve a broader customer base under the same business model. the use of such products by customers within our territory would result in some level of competition. aps cannot predict whether the acc will deem these vendors public service corporations subject to acc regulation and when, and the extent to which, additional service providers will enter aps service territory, increasing the level of competition in the market. operational risks aps results of operations can be adversely affected by various factors impacting demand for electricity. weather conditions. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities. electric power demand is generally a seasonal business. in 29 table of contents arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. as a result, aps overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, aps has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. as a result, unusually mild weather could diminish aps financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. higher temperatures may decrease the snowpack, which might result in lowered soil moisture and an increased threat of forest fires. forest fires could threaten aps communities and electric transmission lines. any damage caused as a result of forest fires could negatively impact aps financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. effects of energy conservation measures and distributed energy. the acc has enacted rules regarding energy efficiency that mandate a 22% annual energy savings requirement by 2020. this will likely increase participation by aps customers in energy efficiency and conservation programs and other demand-side management efforts, which in turn will impact the demand for electricity. the rules also include a requirement for the acc to review and address financial disincentives, recovery of fixed costs and the recovery of net lost income/revenue that would result from lower sales due to increased energy efficiency requirements. to that end, the proposed settlement agreement in aps current retail rate case includes a mechanism to address these matters. the 2009 retail rate case settlement agreement also established energy efficiency goals for aps that began in 2010 that extend through 2012, subjecting aps to energy efficiency requirements slightly greater for the first two of those years than required under the rules described above. aps must also meet certain distributed energy requirements. a portion of aps total renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of distributed energy resources (generally, small scale renewable technologies located on customers properties). the distributed energy requirement was 25% of the overall res requirement of 3% in 2011 and increased to 30% of the applicable res requirement for 2012 and subsequent years. customer participation in distributed energy programs would result in lower demand, since customers would be meeting some or all of their own energy needs. reduced demand due to these energy efficiency and distributed energy requirements, unless offset through ratemaking mechanisms, such as those proposed in the settlement agreement, could have a material adverse impact on aps financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the operation of power generation facilities and transmission systems involves risks that could result in reduced output or unscheduled outages, which could materially affect aps results of operations . the operation of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other complications, occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of aps business. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the larger transmission power grid, and the operation or failure of our facilities could adversely affect the operations of others. if aps facilities operate below expectations, especially during its peak seasons, it may lose revenue or incur additional expenses, including increased purchased power expenses. 30 table of contents the inability to successfully develop or acquire generation resources to meet new or evolving standards and regulations could adversely impact our business. potential changes in regulatory standards, impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, and the need to obtain certain regulatory approvals create uncertainty surrounding our generation portfolio. for example, aps acquisition of sce interest in four corners is contingent upon regulatory approval. if not approved, we could face increased costs for replacement power or the need to acquire or develop alternate resources. in addition, aps is required by the acc to meet certain energy resource portfolio requirements and the res. the development of any renewable generation facilities resulting from the res is subject to many other risks, including risks related to financing, siting, permitting, technology, the construction of sufficient transmission capacity to support these facilities and stresses to generation and transmission resources from intermittent generation characteristics of renewable resources. aps inability to adequately develop or acquire the necessary generation resources to meet the required standards could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. the lack of access to sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on aps business and results of operations. assured supplies of water are important for aps generating plants. water in the southwestern united states is limited and various parties have made conflicting claims regarding the right to access and use such limited supply of water. both groundwater and surface water in areas important to aps generating plants have been and are the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings. in addition, the region in which aps power plants are located is prone to drought conditions, which could potentially affect the plants water supplies. aps inability to access sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. the ownership and operation of power generation and transmission facilities on indian lands could result in uncertainty related to continued leases, easements and rights-of-way, which could have a significant impact on our business. certain aps power plants, including four corners, and portions of the transmission lines that carry power from these plants are located on indian lands pursuant to leases, easements or other rights-of-way that are effective for specified periods. aps is currently unable to predict the final outcome of pending and future approvals by applicable governing bodies with respect to renewals of these leases, easements and rights-of-way. there are inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health, fuel supply, spent fuel disposal, regulatory and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack. aps has an ownership interest in and operates, on behalf of a group of participants, palo verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the united states. palo verde is subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as the ability to obtain adequate supplies of nuclear fuel; the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. aps maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage 31 table of contents to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. in addition, aps may be required under federal law to pay up to $118 million (but not more than $18 million per year) of liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident occurring not only at palo verde, but at any other nuclear power plant in the united states. although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at palo verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit and to promulgate new regulations that could require significant capital expenditures and/or increase operating costs. the use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. aps operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices. aps is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas and coal to the extent that unhedged positions exist. we have established procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives, including exchange-traded futures and options and over-the-counter forwards, options, and swaps. as part of our overall risk management program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and fuels. the changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity. to the extent that commodity markets are illiquid, we may not be able to execute our risk management strategies, which could result in greater unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given time and financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ( dodd-frank act ), which was signed into law in july 2010, contains measures aimed at increasing the transparency and stability of the over-the counter, or otc, derivative markets and preventing excessive speculation. the dodd-frank act could restrict, among other things, trading positions in the energy futures markets, require different collateral or settlement positions, or increase regulatory reporting over derivative positions. based on the provisions included in the dodd-frank act and the implementation of regulations, these changes could, among other things, impact our ability to hedge commodity price and interest rate risk or increase the costs associated with our hedging programs. we are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties. we use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties. despite the fact that the majority of aps trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default, which could result in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. changes in technology could create challenges for aps existing business. research and development activities are ongoing to assess alternative technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption, including clean coal and coal gasification, renewable technologies including photovoltaic (solar) cells, customer-sited generation (solar) and efficiency technologies, and improvements in traditional technologies and equipment, such as more efficient gas turbines. advances in these, or other technologies could reduce the cost of power production, making aps existing generating facilities less economical. in addition, advances in technology and equipment/appliance efficiency could reduce the demand for power supply, which could adversely affect aps business. 32 table of contents aps is pursuing and implementing smart grid technologies, including advanced transmission and distribution system technologies, digital meters enabling two-way communications between the utility and its customers, and electric usage monitoring devices for customers homes and businesses. many of the products and processes resulting from these and other alternative technologies have not yet been widely used or tested, and their use on large-scale systems is not as advanced and established as aps existing technologies and equipment. uncertainties and unknowns related to these and other advancements in technology and equipment could adversely affect aps business if national standards develop that do not embrace the current technologies or if the technologies and equipment fail to perform as expected. in addition, widespread installation and acceptance of these devices could enable the entry of new market participants, such as technology companies, into the interface between aps and its customers. we are subject to employee workforce factors that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. like most companies in the electric utility industry, our workforce is aging and a number of our employees will become eligible to retire within the next few years. although we have undertaken efforts to recruit and train new employees, we may not be successful. we are subject to other employee workforce factors, such as the availability of qualified personnel, the need to negotiate collective bargaining agreements with union employees and potential work stoppages. exposure to these or other employee workforce factors could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to information security risks and risks of unauthorized access to our systems . in the regular course of our business we handle a range of sensitive security, customer and business systems information. we are subject to laws and rules issued by different agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining the confidentiality of this information. a security breach of our information systems such as theft or the inappropriate release of certain types of information, including confidential customer, employee, financial or system operating information, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. despite implementation of security measures, our technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access. our generation, transmission and distribution facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems and physical assets could be targets of such unauthorized access. failures or breaches of our systems could impact the reliability of our generation, transmission and distribution systems and also subject us to financial harm. if our technology systems were to fail or be breached and if we are unable to recover in a timely way, we may not be able to fulfill critical business functions and sensitive confidential data could be compromised, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the implementation of security measures and cost of insurance addressing such activities could increase costs and have a material adverse impact on our financial results. these types of events could also require significant management attention and resources, and could adversely affect pinnacle west and aps reputation with customers and the public. 33 table of contents financial risks financial market disruptions or new financial rules or regulations may increase our financing costs or limit our access to the credit markets, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to implement our financial strategy. we rely on access to credit markets as a significant source of liquidity and the capital markets for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flow from our operations. we believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets. however, certain market disruptions or rules or regulations may increase our cost of borrowing generally, and/or otherwise adversely affect our ability to access the credit markets. in addition, the credit commitments of our lenders under our bank facilities may not be satisfied for a variety of reasons, including periods of financial distress or liquidity issues affecting our lenders, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of our liquidity sources. changes in economic conditions, monetary policy or other factors could result in higher interest rates, which would increase our interest expense on our debt and reduce funds available to us for our current plans. additionally, an increase in our leverage could adversely affect us by: causing a downgrade of our credit ratings; increasing the cost of future debt financing and refinancing; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and requiring us to dedicate an increased portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes. a downgrade of our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our current ratings are set forth in liquidity and capital resources credit ratings in item 7. we cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. any downgrade or withdrawal could adversely affect the market price of pinnacle west and aps securities, limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. we would be required to pay a higher interest rate for future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. in addition, borrowing costs under our existing credit facilities depend on our credit ratings. a downgrade would also require us to provide substantial additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties. if our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it could severely limit access to the commercial paper market. we note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 34 table of contents investment performance, changing interest rates and other economic factors could decrease the value of our benefit plan assets and nuclear decommissioning trust funds and increase the valuation of our related obligations, resulting in significant additional funding requirements. any inability to fully recover these costs in our utility rates would negatively impact our financial condition. we have significant pension plan and other postretirement benefits plan obligations to our employees and retirees and legal obligations to fund nuclear decommissioning trusts for palo verde. we hold and invest substantial assets in these trusts that are designed to provide funds to pay for certain of these obligations as they arise. declines in market values or poor investment results may adversely affect the values of the fixed income and equity securities held in these trusts and increase our funding requirements. additionally, the valuation of liabilities related to our pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans are impacted by a discount rate, which is the interest rate used to discount future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. declining interest rates decrease the discount rate, increase the valuation of the plan liabilities and may result in increases in pension and other postretirement benefit costs, cash contributions, regulatory assets, and charges to other comprehensive income. changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy and changes in other actuarial assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. the minimum contributions required under these plans have increased, and could continue to do so, resulting in significant cash funding obligations that could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we recover most of the pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs and all of the nuclear decommissioning costs in our regulated rates. any inability to fully recover these costs in a timely manner would have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we may be required to adopt ifrs. the ultimate adoption of such standards could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. ifrs is a comprehensive series of accounting standards published by the international accounting standards board ( iasb ) that is being considered by the sec to replace accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ( gaap ) for use in preparation of financial statements. if the sec requires mandatory adoption of ifrs, we may lose our ability to use regulatory accounting treatment, and would follow ifrs rather than gaap for the preparation of our financial statements beginning no earlier than 2015. in the meantime, the fasb and the iasb are working on several accounting standards jointly to converge certain accounting differences. the implementation and adoption of these new standards and the inability to use regulatory accounting could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. our cash flow largely depends on the performance of aps. we conduct our operations primarily through our subsidiary, aps. essentially all of our consolidated assets are held by aps. accordingly, our cash flow and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of aps and its distributions to us. aps is a separate and distinct legal entity and has no obligation to make distributions to us. aps debt agreements may restrict its ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us. in addition, an acc financing order requires aps to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow aps to pay common dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold. the common equity ratio, as defined in the acc order, is total shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long-term debt, including current maturities of long-term debt. 35 table of contents pinnacle west ability to meet its debt service obligations could be adversely affected because its debt securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of its subsidiaries. because pinnacle west is structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to our debt securities. the assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service their own debt and other obligations. our ability to have the benefit of their cash flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries, would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their creditors have been satisfied. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our quarterly operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; developments generally affecting industries in which we operate, particularly the energy distribution and energy generation industries; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; favorable or adverse regulatory or legislative developments; our dividend policy; future sales by the company of equity or equity-linked securities; and general domestic and international economic conditions. in addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of arizona law make it difficult for shareholders to change the composition of our board and may discourage takeover attempts. these provisions, which could preclude our shareholders from receiving a change of control premium, include the following: restrictions on our ability to engage in a wide range of business combination transactions with an interested shareholder (generally, any person who owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting power or any of our affiliates or associates) or any affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, unless specific conditions are met; anti-greenmail provisions of arizona law and our bylaws that prohibit us from purchasing shares of our voting stock from beneficial owners of more than 5% of our outstanding shares unless specified conditions are satisfied; 36 table of contents the ability of the board of directors to increase the size of the board and fill vacancies on the board, whether resulting from such increase, or from death, resignation, disqualification or otherwise; and the ability of our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and, with respect to preferred stock, the other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without shareholder approval. while these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. suncor continuing wind-down of its real estate business may give rise to various claims. since 2009, suncor has been engaged in a program to dispose of its homebuilding operations, master-planned communities, land parcels, commercial assets and golf courses in order to eliminate its outstanding debt. suncor is focusing on concluding an orderly wind-down of its business. this effort includes addressing contingent liabilities, such as warranty and construction claims that may be brought by property owners and potential funding obligations to local taxing districts that financed infrastructure at certain of its real estate developments. pinnacle west has not guaranteed any of suncor obligations. suncor remaining business operations, and its ability to generate cash from operations, are minimal. in february 2012, suncor filed for protection under the united states bankruptcy code to complete an orderly liquidation of its business. pinnacle west could be exposed to the uncertainties and complexities inherent for parent companies in such proceedings. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see market and credit risks in item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 75 table of contentsrisk factors in addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results. unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to pinnacle west and its subsidiaries, including aps. regulatory risks our financial condition depends upon aps ability to recover costs in a timely manner from customers through regulated rates and otherwise execute its business strategy. aps is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence its business, liquidity, results of operations and its ability to fully recover costs from utility customers in a timely manner. the acc regulates aps retail electric rates and the ferc regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services. the profitability of aps is affected by the rates it may charge and the timeliness of recovering costs incurred through its rates. consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of any aps rate proceedings and ancillary matters which may come before the acc and the ferc. arizona, like certain other states, has a statute that allows the acc to reopen prior decisions and modify final orders under certain circumstances. the acc must also approve aps issuance of securities and any transfer of aps property used to provide retail electric service, and must approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between us, aps and our respective affiliates. decisions made by the acc or the ferc could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. aps ability to conduct its business operations and avoid fines and penalties depends upon compliance with federal, state or local statutes, regulations and acc requirements, and obtaining and maintaining certain regulatory permits, approvals and certificates. aps must comply in good faith with all applicable statutes, regulations, rules, tariffs, and orders of agencies that regulate aps business, including the ferc, the nrc, epa, the acc and state and local governmental agencies. these agencies regulate many aspects of aps utility operations, including safety and performance, emissions, siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that aps can charge retail and wholesale customers. failure to comply can subject aps to, among other things, fines and penalties. for example, under the energy policy act of 2005, the ferc can impose penalties (up to one million dollars per day per violation) for failure to comply with mandatory electric reliability standards. in addition to penalties, aps may be unable to recover certain costs if, for example, it fails to implement any of its annual acc-approved renewable implementation plans. aps is also required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies. aps believes the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that aps business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. however, changes in regulations or the imposition of new or revised laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we are also unable to predict 27 table of contents the impact on our business and operating results from pending or future regulatory activities of any of these agencies . the operation of aps nuclear power plant exposes it to substantial regulatory oversight and potentially significant liabilities and capital expenditures. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. events at nuclear facilities of other operators or impacting the industry generally may lead the nrc to impose additional requirements and regulations on all nuclear generation facilities, including palo verde. as a result of the march 2011 earthquake and tsunami that caused significant damage to the fukushima daiichi nuclear power plant in japan, various industry organizations are working to analyze information from the japan incident and develop action plans for u.s. nuclear power plants. additionally, the nrc is performing its own independent review of the events at fukushima daiichi, including a review of the agency processes and regulations in order to determine whether the agency should promulgate additional regulations and possibly make more fundamental changes to the nrc system of regulation. we cannot predict when or if the nrc will take formal action as a result of its review. the financial and/or operational impacts on palo verde and aps may be significant. in the event of noncompliance with its requirements, the nrc has the authority to impose monetary civil penalties or a progressively increased inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut-down of a unit, or both, depending upon the nrc assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. the increased costs resulting from penalties, a heightened level of scrutiny and implementation of plans to achieve compliance with nrc requirements may adversely affect aps financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. aps is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, and changes in, or liabilities under, existing or new laws or regulations may increase aps cost of operations or impact its business plans. aps is, or may become, subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, discharges of wastewater and streams originating from fly ash and bottom ash handling facilities, solid waste, hazardous waste, and coal combustion products, which consist of bottom ash, fly ash, and air pollution control wastes. these laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations. these laws and regulations generally require aps to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, and other approvals. if there is a delay or failure to obtain any required environmental regulatory approval, or if aps fails to obtain, maintain, or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to additional expenses. in addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in civil liability as a result of government enforcement actions or private claims or criminal penalties. both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. aps cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. environmental clean up. aps has been named as a prp for a superfund site in phoenix, arizona and it could be named a prp in the future for other environmental clean up at sites identified by a regulatory body. aps cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean up costs. 28 table of contents there is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. regional haze. aps has received final rulemaking imposing new requirements on four corners and cholla and is currently awaiting a final rulemaking from epa that could impose new requirements on the navajo plant. epa and adeq will require these plants to install pollution control equipment that constitutes the best available retrofit technology to lessen the impacts of emissions on visibility surrounding the plants. the financial impact of installing and operating the required pollution control equipment could jeopardize the economic viability of these plants or the ability of individual participants to continue their participation in these plants. coal ash. epa released proposed regulations governing the disposal of ccrs, which are generated as a result of burning coal and consist of, among other things, fly ash and bottom ash. epa proposed regulating ccrs as either non-hazardous or hazardous waste. aps currently disposes of ccrs in ash ponds and dry storage areas at four corners and cholla, and also sells a portion of its fly ash for beneficial reuse as a constituent in concrete products. if epa regulates ccrs as a hazardous solid waste or phases out aps ability to dispose of ccrs through the use of ash ponds, aps could incur significant costs for ccr disposal and may be unable to continue its sale of fly ash for beneficial reuse. effluent limitation guidelines. epa is expected to propose revised effluent limitation guidelines establishing technology-based wastewater discharge limitations for fossil-fired electric generating units by april 19, 2013, and to promulgate a final rule by may 22, 2014. epa has indicated that it expects the revised standards to target metals and other pollutants in wastewater streams originating from fly ash and bottom ash handling activities and scrubber-related operations. aps currently disposes of fly ash waste and bottom ash in ash ponds at four corners. changes required by the rule could significantly increase ash disposal costs at four corners. new source review. epa has taken the position that many projects electric utilities have performed are major modifications that trigger new source review requirements under the clean air act. the utilities generally have taken the position that these projects are routine maintenance and did not result in emissions increases, and thus are not subject to new source review. in 2009, aps received and responded to a request from epa regarding projects and operations of four corners. an environmental organization filed suit against the four corners participants for alleged violations of new source review and the nsps programs of the clean air act. if epa seeks to impose new source review requirements at four corners or any other aps plant, or if the citizens group prevails in its lawsuit, significant capital investments could be required to install new pollution control technologies. epa could also seek civil penalties. aps cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to it. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by aps are not fully recoverable from aps customers, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. due to current or potential future regulations or legislation, the economics of continuing to own certain resources, particularly coal facilities, may deteriorate, warranting early retirement of those plants, which may result in asset impairments. aps would seek recovery in rates for the book value of any remaining investments in the plants as well as other costs related to early retirement, but cannot predict whether it would obtain such recovery. 29 table of contents aps faces physical and operational risks related to climate change, and potential financial risks resulting from climate change litigation and legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. concern over climate change, deemed by many to be induced by rising levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit co 2 , which is a major byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuel, and other greenhouse gas emissions. in addition, lawsuits have been filed against companies that emit greenhouse gases, including a lawsuit filed by the native village of kivalina and the city of kivalina, alaska against us and several other utilities seeking damages related to climate change. financial risks potential legislation and regulation . it is possible that some form of legislation or epa action to regulate domestic greenhouse gas emissions may occur in the future at the federal level. if the united states congress, or individual states or groups of states in which aps operates, ultimately pass legislation, or if epa promulgates additional regulations regulating the emissions of greenhouse gases from existing generation facilities, any resulting limitations on co 2 and other greenhouse gas emissions could result in the creation of substantial additional capital expenditures and operating costs in the form of taxes, emissions allowances, or required equipment upgrades and could have a material adverse impact on all fossil-fuel-fired generation facilities (particularly coal-fired facilities, which constitute approximately 28% of aps generation capacity). at the state level, the california legislature enacted legislation to address greenhouse gas emissions and the california air resources board approved regulations that will establish a cap-and-trade program for greenhouse gas. this legislation, regulation and other state-specific initiatives may affect aps business, including sales into the impacted states or the ability of its out-of-state power plant participants to continue their participation in certain coal-fired power plants, including four corners following 2016. physical and operational risks. weather extremes such as drought and high temperature variations are common occurrences in the southwest desert area, and these are risks that aps considers in the normal course of business in the engineering and construction of its electric system. large increases in ambient temperatures could require evaluation of certain materials used within its system and represent a greater challenge. 30 table of contents deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition, which could have a significant adverse impact on aps business and its results of operations. in 1999, the acc approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in arizona. retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on aps due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital. although some very limited retail competition existed in aps service area in 1999 and 2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to aps customers. as a result, aps cannot predict if, when, and the extent to which, additional competitors may re-enter aps service territory. several acc commissioners have publicly expressed interest in re-examining retail electric competition in 2013. aps cannot predict how and when this re-examination might take place. in 2010, the acc issued a decision holding that solar vendors that install and operate solar facilities for non-profit schools and governments pursuant to a specific type of contract that calculates payments based on the energy produced are not public service corporations under the arizona constitution, and are therefore not regulated by the acc. a second matter is pending with the acc to determine whether that ruling should extend to solar providers who serve a broader customer base under the same business model. the use of such products by customers within our territory would result in some level of competition. aps cannot predict whether the acc will deem these vendors public service corporations subject to acc regulation and when, and the extent to which, additional service providers will enter aps service territory, increasing the level of competition in the market. operational risks aps results of operations can be adversely affected by various factors impacting demand for electricity. weather conditions. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities. electric power demand is generally a seasonal business. in arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. as a result, aps overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, aps has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. as a result, unusually mild weather could diminish aps financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. higher temperatures may decrease the snowpack, which might result in lowered soil moisture and an increased threat of forest fires. forest fires could threaten aps communities and electric transmission lines. any damage caused as a result of forest fires could negatively impact aps financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. effects of energy conservation measures and distributed energy. the acc has enacted rules regarding energy efficiency that mandate a 22% annual energy savings requirement by 2020. this will likely increase participation by aps customers in energy efficiency and conservation programs and other demand-side management efforts, which in turn will impact the demand for electricity. the rules also include a requirement for the acc to review and address financial disincentives, recovery of fixed costs and the recovery of net lost income/revenue that would result from lower sales due to increased energy efficiency requirements. to that end, the settlement agreement in aps recent retail rate case (the settlement agreement ) includes a mechanism, the lfcr, to address these matters. the 2009 31 table of contents retail rate case settlement agreement also established energy efficiency goals for aps that extended through 2012, subjecting aps to energy efficiency requirements slightly greater for the first two of those years than required under the rules described above. aps must also meet certain distributed energy requirements. a portion of aps total renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of distributed energy resources (generally, small scale renewable technologies located on customers properties). the distributed energy requirement was 25% of the overall res requirement of 3% in 2011 and increased to 30% of the applicable res requirement for 2012 and subsequent years. customer participation in distributed energy programs would result in lower demand, since customers would be meeting some or all of their own energy needs. reduced demand due to these energy efficiency and distributed energy requirements, unless substantially offset through ratemaking mechanisms, could have a material adverse impact on aps financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, higher than anticipated penetration of distributed energy may also cause portions of aps existing resource fleet, such as coal, to become uneconomic or operationally burdensome. customer and sales growth. for the three years 2010 through 2012, aps customer growth averaged 0.7% per year. we currently expect annual customer growth to average about 2% for 2013 through 2015 based on our assessment of modestly improving economic conditions, both nationally and in arizona. for the three years 2010 through 2012, aps experienced annual declines in retail electricity sales averaging 0.1%, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations. we currently estimate that annual retail electricity sales in kilowatt-hours will remain about flat on average during 2013 through 2015, excluding the effects of weather variations. actual customer and sales growth may differ from our projections as a result of numerous factors, such as economic conditions, customer growth and usage patterns, and the effects of energy efficiency and distributed energy programs and requirements. if our customer growth rate does not continue to improve as projected, or if it declines, or if the arizona economy fails to improve, we may be unable to reach our estimated demand level and sales projections, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the operation of power generation facilities and transmission systems involves risks that could result in reduced output or unscheduled outages, which could materially affect aps results of operations . the operation of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other complications, occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of aps business. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the larger transmission power grid, and the operation or failure of our facilities could adversely affect the operations of others. if aps facilities operate below expectations, especially during its peak seasons, it may lose revenue or incur additional expenses, including increased purchased power expenses. 32 table of contents the inability to successfully develop or acquire generation resources to meet new or evolving standards and regulations could adversely impact our business. potential changes in regulatory standards, impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, and the need to obtain certain regulatory approvals create uncertainty surrounding our generation portfolio. in addition, aps is required by the acc to meet certain energy resource portfolio requirements and the res. the development of any renewable generation facilities resulting from the res is subject to many other risks, including risks related to financing, siting, permitting, technology, the construction of sufficient transmission capacity to support these facilities and stresses to generation and transmission resources from intermittent generation characteristics of renewable resources. aps inability to adequately develop or acquire the necessary generation resources to meet the required standards could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. the lack of access to sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on aps business and results of operations. assured supplies of water are important for aps generating plants. water in the southwestern united states is limited and various parties have made conflicting claims regarding the right to access and use such limited supply of water. both groundwater and surface water in areas important to aps generating plants have been and are the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings. in addition, the region in which aps power plants are located is prone to drought conditions, which could potentially affect the plants water supplies. aps inability to access sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. the ownership and operation of power generation and transmission facilities on indian lands could result in uncertainty related to continued leases, easements and rights-of-way, which could have a significant impact on our business. certain aps power plants, including four corners, and portions of the transmission lines that carry power from these plants are located on indian lands pursuant to leases, easements or other rights-of-way that are effective for specified periods. aps is currently unable to predict the final outcome of pending and future approvals by applicable governing bodies with respect to renewals of these leases, easements and rights-of-way. there are inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health, fuel supply, spent fuel disposal, regulatory and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack. aps has an ownership interest in and operates, on behalf of a group of participants, palo verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the united states. palo verde constitutes approximately 18% of our owned and leased generation capacity. palo verde is subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as the ability to obtain adequate supplies of nuclear fuel; the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. aps maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could 33 table of contents exceed the amount of insurance coverage. in addition, aps may be required under federal law to pay up to $118 million (but not more than $18 million per year) of liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident occurring not only at palo verde, but at any other nuclear power plant in the united states. although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at palo verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit and to promulgate new regulations that could require significant capital expenditures and/or increase operating costs. the use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. aps operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices. aps is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas and coal to the extent that unhedged positions exist. we have established procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives, including exchange-traded futures and options and over-the-counter forwards, options, and swaps. as part of our overall risk management program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and fuels. the changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity. to the extent that commodity markets are illiquid, we may not be able to execute our risk management strategies, which could result in greater unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given time and financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ( dodd-frank act ), which was signed into law in july 2010, contains measures aimed at increasing the transparency and stability of the over-the counter, or otc, derivative markets and preventing excessive speculation. the dodd-frank act could restrict, among other things, trading positions in the energy futures markets, require different collateral or settlement positions, or increase regulatory reporting over derivative positions. based on the provisions included in the dodd-frank act and the implementation of regulations, these changes could, among other things, impact our ability to hedge commodity price and interest rate risk or increase the costs associated with our hedging programs. we are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties. we use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties. despite the fact that the majority of aps trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default, which could result in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. changes in technology could create challenges for aps existing business. research and development activities are ongoing to assess alternative technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption, including clean coal and coal gasification, renewable technologies including photovoltaic (solar) cells, customer-sited generation (solar) and efficiency technologies, and improvements in traditional technologies and equipment, such as more efficient gas turbines. advances in these, or other technologies could reduce the cost of power production, making aps existing generating facilities less economical. in addition, advances in technology and equipment/appliance efficiency could reduce the demand for power supply, which could adversely affect aps business. 34 table of contents aps is pursuing and implementing smart grid technologies, including advanced transmission and distribution system technologies, as well as digital meters enabling two-way communications between the utility and its customers. many of the products and processes resulting from these and other alternative technologies have not yet been widely used or tested, and their use on large-scale systems is not as advanced and established as aps existing technologies and equipment. uncertainties and unknowns related to these and other advancements in technology and equipment could adversely affect aps business if national standards develop that do not embrace the current technologies or if the technologies and equipment fail to perform as expected. in addition, widespread installation and acceptance of these devices could enable the entry of new market participants, such as technology companies, into the interface between aps and its customers. we are subject to employee workforce factors that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. like most companies in the electric utility industry, our workforce is aging and a number of our employees will become eligible to retire within the next few years. although we have undertaken efforts to recruit and train new employees, we may not be successful. we are subject to other employee workforce factors, such as the availability of qualified personnel, the need to negotiate collective bargaining agreements with union employees and potential work stoppages. exposure to these or other employee workforce factors could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to information security risks and risks of unauthorized access to our systems . in the regular course of our business we handle a range of sensitive security, customer and business systems information. we are subject to laws and rules issued by different agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining the confidentiality of this information. a security breach of our information systems such as theft or the inappropriate release of certain types of information, including confidential customer, employee, financial or system operating information, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. despite implementation of security measures, our technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access. our generation, transmission and distribution facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems and physical assets could be targets of such unauthorized access. failures or breaches of our systems could impact the reliability of our generation, transmission and distribution systems and also subject us to financial harm. if our technology systems were to fail or be breached and if we are unable to recover in a timely way, we may not be able to fulfill critical business functions and sensitive confidential data could be compromised, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the implementation of security measures and cost of insurance addressing such activities could increase costs and have a material adverse impact on our financial results. these types of events could also require significant management attention and resources, and could adversely affect pinnacle west and aps reputation with customers and the public. 35 table of contents financial risks financial market disruptions or new financial rules or regulations may increase our financing costs or limit our access to the credit markets, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to implement our financial strategy. we rely on access to credit markets as a significant source of liquidity and the capital markets for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flow from our operations. we believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets. however, certain market disruptions or rules or regulations may increase our cost of borrowing generally, and/or otherwise adversely affect our ability to access these financial markets. in addition, the credit commitments of our lenders under our bank facilities may not be satisfied for a variety of reasons, including periods of financial distress or liquidity issues affecting our lenders, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of our liquidity sources. changes in economic conditions, monetary policy or other factors could result in higher interest rates, which would increase our interest expense on our existing variable rate debt and new debt we expect to issue in the future, and thus reduce funds available to us for our current plans. additionally, an increase in our leverage could adversely affect us by: causing a downgrade of our credit ratings; increasing the cost of future debt financing and refinancing; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and requiring us to dedicate an increased portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes. a downgrade of our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our current ratings are set forth in liquidity and capital resources credit ratings in item 7. we cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. any downgrade or withdrawal could adversely affect the market price of pinnacle west and aps securities, limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. we would be required to pay a higher interest rate for future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. in addition, borrowing costs under our existing credit facilities depend on our credit ratings. a downgrade would also require us to provide substantial additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties. if our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it could severely limit access to the commercial paper market. we note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 36 table of contents investment performance, changing interest rates and other economic factors could decrease the value of our benefit plan assets and nuclear decommissioning trust funds and increase the valuation of our related obligations, resulting in significant additional funding requirements. we are subject to risks related to the provision of employee healthcare benefits and recent healthcare reform legislation. any inability to fully recover these costs in our utility rates would negatively impact our financial condition. we have significant pension plan and other postretirement benefits plan obligations to our employees and retirees and legal obligations to fund nuclear decommissioning trusts for palo verde. we hold and invest substantial assets in these trusts that are designed to provide funds to pay for certain of these obligations as they arise. declines in market values of the fixed income and equity securities held in these trusts may increase our funding requirements. additionally, the valuation of liabilities related to our pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans are impacted by a discount rate, which is the interest rate used to discount future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. declining interest rates decrease the discount rate, increase the valuation of the plan liabilities and may result in increases in pension and other postretirement benefit costs, cash contributions, regulatory assets, and charges to other comprehensive income. changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy and changes in other actuarial assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. the minimum contributions required under these plans are impacted by federal legislation. increasing liabilities or otherwise increasing funding requirements under these plans, resulting from adverse changes in legislation or otherwise, could result in significant cash funding obligations that could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we recover most of the pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs and all of the nuclear decommissioning costs in our regulated rates. any inability to fully recover these costs in a timely manner would have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. employee healthcare costs in recent years have continued to rise. the patient protection and affordable care act is expected to result in additional healthcare cost increases. costs and other effects of the legislation, which may include the cost of compliance and potentially increased costs of providing for medical insurance for our employees, cannot be determined with certainty at this time. we will continue to monitor healthcare legislation and its impact on our plans and costs. our cash flow depends on the performance of aps. currently, we derive essentially all of our revenues and earnings from our wholly-owned subsidiary, aps. accordingly, our cash flow and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of aps and its distributions to us. aps is a separate and distinct legal entity and has no obligation to make distributions to us. aps debt agreements may restrict its ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us. in addition, an acc financing order requires aps to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow aps to pay common dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold. the common equity ratio, as defined in the acc order, is total shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long-term debt, including current maturities of long-term debt. 37 table of contents pinnacle west ability to meet its debt service obligations could be adversely affected because its debt securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of its subsidiaries. because pinnacle west is structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to our debt securities. the assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service their own debt and other obligations. our ability to have the benefit of their cash flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries, would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their creditors have been satisfied. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our quarterly operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; developments generally affecting industries in which we operate, particularly the energy distribution and energy generation industries; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; favorable or adverse regulatory or legislative developments; our dividend policy; future sales by the company of equity or equity-linked securities; and general domestic and international economic conditions. in addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of arizona law make it difficult for shareholders to change the composition of our board and may discourage takeover attempts. these provisions, which could preclude our shareholders from receiving a change of control premium, include the following: restrictions on our ability to engage in a wide range of business combination transactions with an interested shareholder (generally, any person who owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting power or any of our affiliates or associates) or any affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, unless specific conditions are met; anti-greenmail provisions of arizona law and our bylaws that prohibit us from purchasing shares of our voting stock from beneficial owners of more than 5% of our outstanding shares unless specified conditions are satisfied; 38 table of contents the ability of the board of directors to increase the size of the board and fill vacancies on the board, whether resulting from such increase, or from death, resignation, disqualification or otherwise; and the ability of our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and, with respect to preferred stock, the other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without shareholder approval. while these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. suncor continuing wind-down of its real estate business may give rise to various claims. since 2009, suncor has been engaged in a program to dispose of its homebuilding operations, master-planned communities, land parcels, commercial assets and golf courses in order to eliminate its outstanding debt. suncor is focusing on concluding an orderly wind-down of its business and, as of december 31, 2012, suncor had no assets. this effort includes addressing contingent liabilities, such as warranty and construction claims that may be brought by property owners and potential funding obligations to local taxing districts that financed infrastructure at certain of its real estate developments. pinnacle west has not guaranteed any of suncor obligations. in february 2012, suncor filed for protection under the united states bankruptcy code to complete an orderly liquidation of its business. pinnacle west could be exposed to the uncertainties and complexities inherent for parent companies in such proceedings. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 76 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see market and credit risks in item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 76 table of contentsrisk factors 27 risk factors in addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results. unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to pinnacle west and its subsidiaries, including aps. regulatory risks our financial condition depends upon aps ability to recover costs in a timely manner from customers through regulated rates and otherwise execute its business strategy. aps is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence its business, liquidity, results of operations and its ability to fully recover costs from utility customers in a timely manner. the acc regulates aps retail electric rates and ferc regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services. the profitability of aps is affected by the rates it may charge and the timeliness of recovering costs incurred through its rates. consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of any aps rate proceedings and ancillary matters which may come before the acc and ferc. arizona, like certain other states, has a statute that allows the acc to reopen prior decisions and modify final orders under certain circumstances. the acc must also approve aps issuance of securities and any transfer of aps property used to provide retail electric service, and must approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between us, aps and our respective affiliates. decisions made by the acc or ferc could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 27 table of contents aps ability to conduct its business operations and avoid fines and penalties depends upon compliance with federal, state or local statutes, regulations and acc requirements, and obtaining and maintaining certain regulatory permits, approvals and certificates. aps must comply in good faith with all applicable statutes, regulations, rules, tariffs, and orders of agencies that regulate aps business, including ferc, nrc, epa, the acc and state and local governmental agencies. these agencies regulate many aspects of aps utility operations, including safety and performance, emissions, siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that aps can charge retail and wholesale customers. failure to comply can subject aps to, among other things, fines and penalties. for example, under the energy policy act of 2005, ferc can impose penalties (up to one million dollars per day per violation) for failure to comply with mandatory electric reliability standards. aps is also required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies. aps believes the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that aps business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. however, changes in regulations or the imposition of new or revised laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we are also unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from pending or future regulatory activities of any of these agencies . the operation of aps nuclear power plant exposes it to substantial regulatory oversight and potentially significant liabilities and capital expenditures. the nrc has broad authority under federal law to impose safety-related, security-related and other licensing requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. events at nuclear facilities of other operators or impacting the industry generally may lead the nrc to impose additional requirements and regulations on all nuclear generation facilities, including palo verde. as a result of the march 2011 earthquake and tsunamis that caused significant damage to the fukushima daiichi nuclear power plant in japan, various industry organizations are working to analyze information from the japan incident and develop action plans for u.s. nuclear power plants. additionally, the nrc has been performing its own independent review of the events at fukushima daiichi, including a review of the agency processes and regulations in order to determine whether the agency should promulgate additional regulations and possibly make more fundamental changes to the nrc system of regulation. we cannot predict when or if the nrc will complete its formal actions as a result of its review. as a result of the fukushima event, however, the nrc has directed nuclear power plants to implement the first tier recommendations of the nrc near term task force. in response to these recommendations, palo verde expects to spend approximately $100 million for capital enhancements to the plant over the next several years (aps share is 29.1%). we cannot predict whether these amounts will increase or whether additional financial and/or operational requirements on palo verde and aps may be imposed. in the event of noncompliance with its requirements, the nrc has the authority to impose a progressively increased inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut-down of a unit or civil penalties, or both, depending upon the nrc assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. the increased costs resulting from penalties, a heightened level of scrutiny and implementation of plans to achieve compliance with nrc requirements may adversely affect aps financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 28 table of contents aps is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, and changes in, or liabilities under, existing or new laws or regulations may increase aps cost of operations or impact its business plans. aps is, or may become, subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, discharges of wastewater and streams originating from fly ash and bottom ash handling facilities, solid waste, hazardous waste, and coal combustion products, which consist of bottom ash, fly ash, and air pollution control wastes. these laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations. these laws and regulations generally require aps to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, and other approvals. if there is a delay or failure to obtain any required environmental regulatory approval, or if aps fails to obtain, maintain, or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to additional expenses. in addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in civil liability as a result of government enforcement actions or private claims or criminal penalties. both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations. aps cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. environmental clean up. aps has been named as a prp for a superfund site in phoenix, arizona, and it could be named a prp in the future for other environmental clean-up at sites identified by a regulatory body. aps cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up costs. there is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all prps. regional haze. aps has received final rulemakings imposing new requirements on four corners and cholla and is currently awaiting a final rulemaking from epa that could impose new requirements on the navajo plant. epa and adeq will require these plants to install pollution control equipment that constitutes bart to lessen the impacts of emissions on visibility surrounding the plants. the financial impact of installing and operating the required pollution control equipment could jeopardize the economic viability of these plants or the ability of individual participants to continue their participation in these plants. mercury and other hazardous air pollutants. epa issued mats to regulate emissions of mercury and other hazardous air pollutants from fossil-fired power plants. the mats will require aps to install additional pollution control equipment at cholla and possibly the navajo plant. the financial impact of installing and operating such equipment could jeopardize the economic viability of cholla. coal ash. epa released proposed regulations governing the disposal of ccrs, which are generated as a result of burning coal and consist of, among other things, fly ash and bottom ash. epa proposed regulating ccrs as either non-hazardous or hazardous waste. aps currently disposes of ccrs in ash ponds and dry storage areas at four corners and cholla, and also sells a portion of its fly ash for beneficial reuse as a constituent in concrete products. if epa regulates ccrs as a hazardous solid waste or phases out aps ability to dispose of ccrs through the use of ash ponds, aps could incur significant costs for ccr disposal and may be unable to continue its sale of fly ash for beneficial reuse. 29 table of contents effluent limitation guidelines. epa is expected to finalize revised effluent limitation guidelines establishing technology-based wastewater discharge limitations for fossil-fired electric generating units in 2014. epa has indicated that it expects the revised standards to target metals and other pollutants in wastewater streams originating from fly ash and bottom ash handling activities and scrubber-related operations. aps currently disposes of fly ash waste and bottom ash in ash ponds at four corners. changes required by the rule could significantly increase ash disposal costs at four corners. new source review. epa has taken the position that many projects electric utilities have performed are major modifications that trigger new source review requirements under the clean air act. the utilities generally have taken the position that these projects are routine maintenance, repair and replacement and did not result in emissions increases, and thus are not subject to new source review. in 2009, aps received and responded to a request from epa regarding projects and operations at four corners. several environmental non-governmental organizations filed suit against the four corners participants for alleged violations of new source review and the nsps programs of the clean air act. if epa seeks to impose new source review requirements at four corners or any other aps plant, or if the citizens groups prevail in their clean air act lawsuit, capital investments could be required to install new pollution control technologies. epa could also seek civil penalties. aps cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to it. revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by aps are not fully recoverable from aps customers, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. due to current or potential future regulations or legislation, the economics of continuing to own certain resources, particularly coal facilities, may deteriorate, warranting early retirement of those plants, which may result in asset impairments. aps would seek recovery in rates for the book value of any remaining investments in the plants as well as other costs related to early retirement, but cannot predict whether it would obtain such recovery. aps faces physical and operational risks related to climate change, and potential financial risks resulting from climate change litigation and legislative and regulatory efforts to limit ghg emissions. concern over climate change, deemed by many to be induced by rising levels of ghg in the atmosphere, has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit co 2 , which is a major byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuel, and other ghg emissions. financial risks potential greenhouse gas regulation . epa is taking action to regulate domestic ghg emissions and is expected to issue proposed regulations in mid-2014. any limitations on co 2 and other ghg emissions resulting from this regulatory effort could require substantial additional capital expenditures and operating costs and could have a material adverse impact on all fossil-fuel-fired generation facilities (particularly coal-fired facilities, which constitute approximately 30% of aps owned and leased generation capacity). at the state level, the california legislature enacted legislation to address ghg emissions and the california air resources board approved regulations that established a cap-and-trade program for 30 table of contents ghgs. this legislation, regulations and other state-specific initiatives may affect aps business, including sales into the impacted states. physical and operational risks. weather extremes such as drought and high temperature variations are common occurrences in the southwest desert area, and these are risks that aps considers in the normal course of business in the engineering and construction of its electric system. large increases in ambient temperatures could require evaluation of certain materials used within its system and represent a greater challenge. deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition, which could have a significant adverse impact on aps business and its results of operations. in 1999, the acc approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in arizona. retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on aps due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital. although some very limited retail competition existed in aps service area in 1999 and 2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to aps customers. on may 9, 2013, the acc voted to re-examine the facilitation of a deregulated retail electric market in arizona. the acc subsequently opened a docket for this matter and received comments from a number of interested parties on the considerations involved in establishing retail electric deregulation in the state. one of these considerations is whether various aspects of a deregulated market, including setting utility rates on a market basis, would be consistent with the requirements of the arizona constitution. on september 11, 2013, after receiving legal advice from the acc staff, the acc voted 4-1 to close the current docket and await full arizona constitutional authority before any further examination of this matter. the motion approved by the acc also included opening one or more new dockets in the future to explore options to offer more rate choices to customers and innovative changes within the existing cost-of-service regulatory model that could include elements of competition. one of these options could be a continuation or expansion of aps existing ag (alternative generation) 1 program, which essentially allows up to 200 mw of cumulative load to be served via a buy-through arrangement with competitive suppliers of generation. we cannot predict future regulatory or legislative action that might result in increased competition. in 2010, the acc issued a decision holding that solar vendors that install and operate solar facilities for non-profit schools and governments pursuant to a specific type of contract that calculates payments based on the energy produced are not public service corporations under the arizona constitution, and are therefore not regulated by the acc. a second matter is pending with the acc to determine whether that ruling should extend to solar providers who serve a broader customer base under the same business model. the use of such products by customers within our territory would result in some level of competition. aps cannot predict whether the acc will deem these vendors public service corporations subject to acc regulation and when, and the extent to which, additional service providers will enter aps service territory, increasing the level of competition in the market. operational risks aps results of operations can be adversely affected by various factors impacting demand for electricity. weather conditions. weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities. electric power demand is generally a seasonal business. in 31 table of contents arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. as a result, aps overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, aps has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. as a result, unusually mild weather could diminish aps financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. higher temperatures may decrease the snowpack, which might result in lowered soil moisture and an increased threat of forest fires. forest fires could threaten aps communities and electric transmission lines and facilities. any damage caused as a result of forest fires could negatively impact aps financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. effects of energy conservation measures and distributed energy. the acc has enacted rules regarding energy efficiency that mandate a 22% annual energy savings requirement by 2020. this will likely increase participation by aps customers in energy efficiency and conservation programs and other demand-side management efforts, which in turn will impact the demand for electricity. the rules also include a requirement for the acc to review and address financial disincentives, recovery of fixed costs and the recovery of net lost income/revenue that would result from lower sales due to increased energy efficiency requirements. to that end, the settlement agreement in aps most recent retail rate case (the 2012 settlement agreement ) includes a mechanism, the lfcr, to address these matters. aps must also meet certain distributed energy requirements. a portion of aps total renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of distributed energy resources (generally, small scale renewable technologies located on customers properties). the distributed energy requirement was 25% of the overall res requirement of 3% in 2011 and increased to 30% of the applicable res requirement for 2012 and subsequent years. customer participation in distributed energy programs would result in lower demand, since customers would be meeting some or all of their own energy needs. reduced demand due to these energy efficiency and distributed energy requirements, unless substantially offset through ratemaking mechanisms, could have a material adverse impact on aps financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. customer and sales growth. for the three years 2011 through 2013, aps retail customer growth averaged 1.0% per year. we currently expect annual customer growth to average about 2.5% for 2014 through 2016 based on our assessment of modestly improving economic conditions, both nationally and in arizona. for the three years 2011 through 2013, aps experienced annual increases in retail electricity sales averaging 0.1%, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations. we currently estimate that annual retail electricity sales in kwh will increase on average by about 1% during 2014 through 2016, including the effects of customer conservation and energy efficiency and distributed renewable generation initiatives, but excluding the effects of weather variations. actual customer and sales growth may differ from our projections as a result of numerous factors, such as economic conditions, customer growth and usage patterns, and the effects of energy efficiency and distributed energy programs and requirements. additionally, recovery of a substantial portion of our fixed costs of providing service is based upon the volumetric amount of our sales. if our customer growth rate does not continue to improve as projected, or if it declines, or if the arizona economy fails to improve, we may be unable to reach our estimated demand level and sales projections, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 32 table of contents the operation of power generation facilities and transmission systems involves risks that could result in reduced output or unscheduled outages, which could materially affect aps results of operations . the operation of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other complications, occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of aps business. because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the larger transmission power grid, and the operation or failure of our facilities could adversely affect the operations of others. if aps facilities operate below expectations, especially during its peak seasons, it may lose revenue or incur additional expenses, including increased purchased power expenses. concerns over physical security of these assets is also increasing, which may require us to incur additional capital and operating costs to address. damage to certain of our facilities due to vandalism or other deliberate acts could lead to outages or other adverse effects. the inability to successfully develop or acquire generation resources to meet reliability requirements, new or evolving standards or regulations could adversely impact our business. potential changes in regulatory standards, impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, and the need to obtain certain regulatory approvals create uncertainty surrounding our generation portfolio. the current abundance of low, stably priced natural gas, together with environmental and other concerns surrounding coal-fired generation resources, create strategic questions related to the appropriate generation portfolio and fuel diversification mix. in addition, aps is required by the acc to meet certain energy resource portfolio requirements such as the ees and the res. the development of any generation facility is subject to many risks, including risks related to financing, siting, permitting, technology, the construction of sufficient transmission capacity to support these facilities and stresses to generation and transmission resources from intermittent generation characteristics of renewable resources. aps inability to adequately develop or acquire the necessary generation resources could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. the lack of access to sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on aps business and results of operations. assured supplies of water are important for aps generating plants. water in the southwestern united states is limited, and various parties have made conflicting claims regarding the right to access and use such limited supply of water. both groundwater and surface water in areas important to aps generating plants have been and are the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings. in addition, the region in which aps power plants are located is prone to drought conditions, which could potentially affect the plants water supplies. aps inability to access sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 33 table of contents the ownership and operation of power generation and transmission facilities on indian lands could result in uncertainty related to continued leases, easements and rights-of-way, which could have a significant impact on our business. certain aps power plants, including four corners, and portions of the transmission lines that carry power from these plants are located on indian lands pursuant to leases, easements or other rights-of-way that are effective for specified periods. aps is currently unable to predict the final outcome of pending and future approvals by applicable governing bodies with respect to renewals of these leases, easements and rights-of-way. there are inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health, fuel supply, spent fuel disposal, regulatory and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack. aps has an ownership interest in and operates, on behalf of a group of participants, palo verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the united states. palo verde constitutes approximately 18% of our owned and leased generation capacity. palo verde is subject to environmental, health and financial risks, such as the ability to obtain adequate supplies of nuclear fuel; the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. aps maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. in addition, aps may be required under federal law to pay up to $111 million (but not more than $16.4 million per year) of liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident occurring not only at palo verde, but at any other nuclear power plant in the united states. although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at palo verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the nrc to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit and to promulgate new regulations that could require significant capital expenditures and/or increase operating costs. the use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. aps operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices. aps is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas and coal to the extent that unhedged positions exist. we have established procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives, including exchange traded futures and options and over-the-counter forwards, options, and swaps. as part of our overall risk management program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and fuels. the changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity. to the extent that commodity markets are illiquid, we may not be able to execute our risk management strategies, which could result in greater unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given time and financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ( dodd-frank act ) contains measures aimed at increasing the transparency and stability of the over-the counter, or otc, derivative markets and preventing excessive speculation. the dodd-frank act could restrict, among 34 table of contents other things, trading positions in the energy futures markets, require different collateral or settlement positions, or increase regulatory reporting over derivative positions. based on the provisions included in the dodd-frank act and the implementation of regulations, these changes could, among other things, impact our ability to hedge commodity price and interest rate risk or increase the costs associated with our hedging programs. we are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties. we use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties. despite the fact that the majority of aps trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default, which could result in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. changes in technology could create challenges for aps existing business. research and development activities are ongoing to assess alternative technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption or emissions, including clean coal and coal gasification, renewable technologies including photovoltaic (solar) cells, customer-sited generation (solar), energy storage (batteries), and efficiency technologies, and improvements in traditional technologies and equipment, such as more efficient gas turbines. advances in these, or other technologies could reduce the cost of power production, making aps existing generating facilities less economical. in addition, advances in technology and equipment/appliance efficiency could reduce the demand for power supply, which could adversely affect aps business. aps is pursuing and implementing smart grid technologies, including advanced transmission and distribution system technologies, as well as digital meters enabling two-way communications between the utility and its customers. many of the products and processes resulting from these and other alternative technologies have not yet been widely used or tested on a long-term basis, and their use on large-scale systems is not as advanced and established as aps existing technologies and equipment. widespread installation and acceptance of these technologies could enable the entry of new market participants, such as technology companies, into the interface between aps and its customers and could have other unpredictable effects on aps business. we are subject to employee workforce factors that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. like most companies in the electric utility industry, our workforce is aging, with approximately 38% of employees eligible to retire by 2017. although we have undertaken efforts to recruit and train new employees, we face increased competition for talent. we are subject to other employee workforce factors, such as the availability of qualified personnel, the need to negotiate collective bargaining agreements with union employees and potential work stoppages. these or other employee workforce factors could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to information security risks and risks of unauthorized access to our systems . in the regular course of our business, we handle a range of sensitive security, customer and business systems information. we are subject to laws and rules issued by different agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining the confidentiality of this information. a security breach of our information systems such as theft or the inappropriate release of certain types of information, including 35 table of contents confidential customer, employee, financial or system operating information, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. despite implementation of security measures, our technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access. our generation, transmission and distribution facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems and physical assets could be targets of such unauthorized access. failures or breaches of our systems could impact the reliability of our generation, transmission and distribution systems and also subject us to financial harm. if our technology systems were to fail or be breached and if we are unable to recover in a timely way, we may not be able to fulfill critical business functions and sensitive confidential data could be compromised, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the implementation of security measures could increase costs and have a material adverse impact on our financial results. these types of events could also require significant management attention and resources, and could adversely affect pinnacle west and aps reputation with customers and the public. we obtained cyber insurance to provide coverage for a portion of the losses and damages that may result from a security breach of our information technology systems, but such insurance may not cover the total loss or damage caused by a breach. financial risks financial market disruptions or new financial rules or regulations may increase our financing costs or limit our access to various financial markets, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to implement our financial strategy. pinnacle west and aps rely on access to credit markets as a significant source of liquidity and the capital markets for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flow from our operations. we believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets. however, certain market disruptions or rules or regulations may increase our cost of borrowing generally, and/or otherwise adversely affect our ability to access these financial markets. in addition, the credit commitments of our lenders under our bank facilities may not be satisfied for a variety of reasons, including periods of financial distress or liquidity issues affecting our lenders, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of our liquidity sources. changes in economic conditions, monetary policy or other factors could result in higher interest rates, which would increase interest expense on our existing variable rate debt and new debt we expect to issue in the future, and thus reduce funds available to us for our current plans. additionally, an increase in our leverage could adversely affect us by: causing a downgrade of our credit ratings; increasing the cost of future debt financing and refinancing; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and requiring us to dedicate an increased portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future business opportunities or other purposes. 36 table of contents a downgrade of our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. our current ratings are set forth in liquidity and capital resources credit ratings in item 7. we cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant. any downgrade or withdrawal could adversely affect the market price of pinnacle west and aps securities, limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs, which would diminish our financial results. we would be required to pay a higher interest rate for future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. in addition, borrowing costs under our existing credit facilities depend on our credit ratings. a downgrade would also require us to provide additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties. if our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it could severely limit access to the commercial paper market. we note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. investment performance, changing interest rates and other economic factors could decrease the value of our benefit plan assets and nuclear decommissioning trust funds and increase the valuation of our related obligations, resulting in significant additional funding requirements. we are subject to risks related to the provision of employee healthcare benefits and recent healthcare reform legislation. any inability to fully recover these costs in our utility rates would negatively impact our financial condition. we have significant pension plan and other postretirement benefits plan obligations to our employees and retirees and legal obligations to fund nuclear decommissioning trusts for palo verde. we hold and invest substantial assets in these trusts that are designed to provide funds to pay for certain of these obligations as they arise. declines in market values of the fixed income and equity securities held in these trusts may increase our funding requirements into the related trusts. additionally, the valuation of liabilities related to our pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans are impacted by a discount rate, which is the interest rate used to discount future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. declining interest rates decrease the discount rate, increase the valuation of the plan liabilities and may result in increases in pension and other postretirement benefit costs, cash contributions, regulatory assets, and charges to oci. changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy and changes in other actuarial assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. the minimum contributions required under these plans are impacted by federal legislation. increasing liabilities or otherwise increasing funding requirements under these plans, resulting from adverse changes in legislation or otherwise, could result in significant cash funding obligations that could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we recover most of the pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs and all of the nuclear decommissioning costs in our regulated rates. any inability to fully recover these costs in a timely manner would have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. employee healthcare costs in recent years have continued to rise. the patient protection and affordable care act is expected to result in additional healthcare cost increases. costs and other 37 table of contents effects of the legislation, which may include the cost of compliance and potentially increased costs of providing for medical insurance for our employees, cannot be determined with certainty at this time. we will continue to monitor healthcare legislation and its impact on our plans and costs. our cash flow depends on the performance of aps. we derive essentially all of our revenues and earnings from our wholly-owned subsidiary, aps. accordingly, our cash flow and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of aps and its distributions to us. aps is a separate and distinct legal entity and has no obligation to make distributions to us. aps financing agreements may restrict its ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us. in addition, an acc financing order requires aps to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow aps to pay common dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold. the common equity ratio, as defined in the acc order, is total shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long-term debt, including current maturities of long-term debt. pinnacle west ability to meet its debt service obligations could be adversely affected because its debt securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of its subsidiaries. because pinnacle west is structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to our debt securities. the assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service their own debt and other obligations. our ability to have the benefit of their cash flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries, would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their creditors have been satisfied. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our quarterly operating results; operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; developments generally affecting industries in which we operate; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; favorable or adverse regulatory or legislative developments; our dividend policy; future sales by the company of equity or equity-linked securities; and general domestic and international economic conditions. 38 table of contents in addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of arizona law make it difficult for shareholders to change the composition of our board and may discourage takeover attempts. these provisions, which could preclude our shareholders from receiving a change of control premium, include the following: restrictions on our ability to engage in a wide range of business combination transactions with an interested shareholder (generally, any person who owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting power or any of our affiliates or associates) or any affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, unless specific conditions are met; anti-greenmail provisions of arizona law and our bylaws that prohibit us from purchasing shares of our voting stock from beneficial owners of more than 5% of our outstanding shares unless specified conditions are satisfied; the ability of the board of directors to increase the size of the board of directors and fill vacancies on the board of directors, whether resulting from such increase, or from death, resignation, disqualification or otherwise; and the ability of our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and, with respect to preferred stock, the other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without shareholder approval. while these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable the board of directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see market and credit risks in item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 75 table of contents