risk factors 21 risk factors, item 3. legal proceedings, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, includes forward-looking statements. you can identify our forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, goal, intend, plan, predict, project, seek, target, could, may, should or would or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. in accordance with safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to, or statements that are subject to risks, contingencies or uncertainties that relate to: future levels of revenues, refining and marketing gross margins, retail gasoline and distillate gross margins, merchandise margins, income from operations, net income or earnings per share; anticipated volumes of feedstock, throughput, sales or shipments of refined products; anticipated levels of regional, national and worldwide prices of crude oil and refined products; anticipated levels of crude oil and refined product inventories; future levels of capital, environmental or maintenance expenditures, general and administrative and other expenses; the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital or maintenance projects; expectations regarding the acquisition or divestiture of assets; the effect of restructuring or reorganization of business components; the potential effects of judicial or other proceedings on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; and the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, or federal, foreign, state or local regulatory authorities, or plaintiffs in litigation. we have based our forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and our company. we caution that these statements are not guarantees of future performance and you should not rely unduly on them, as they involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that we cannot predict. in addition, we have based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. while our management considers these assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. accordingly, our actual results may differ materially from the future performance that we have expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements. differences between actual results and any future performance suggested in our forward-looking statements could result from a variety of factors, including the following: changes in general economic, market or business conditions; domestic and foreign supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks; the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to agree on and to influence crude oil price and production controls; 1 table of contents domestic and foreign supplies of refined products such as gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, home heating oil and petrochemicals; foreign imports of refined products; refining industry overcapacity or undercapacity; changes in the cost or availability of third-party vessels, pipelines and other means of transportation for crude oil, feedstocks and refined products; the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels and alternative-fuel vehicles and laws mandating such fuels or vehicles; fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products, including seasonal fluctuations; political and economic conditions in nations that consume refined products, including the united states, and in crude oil producing regions, including the middle east, africa and south america; actions taken by our competitors, including pricing adjustments, expansion of retail activities, and the expansion and retirement of refining capacity in response to market conditions; changes in fuel and utility costs for our facilities; delay of, cancellation of or failure to implement planned capital projects and realize the benefits projected for such projects, or cost overruns associated with such projects; accidents or other unscheduled shutdowns affecting our refineries, machinery, pipelines or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers; unusual weather conditions and natural disasters, which can unforeseeably affect the price or availability of crude oil and other feedstocks and refined products; acts of war, terrorism or civil unrest that could impair our ability to produce or transport refined products or receive feedstocks; legislative or regulatory action, which may adversely affect our business or operations; rulings, judgments or settlements in litigation or other legal, tax or regulatory matters, including unexpected environmental remediation costs, in excess of any reserves or insurance coverage; labor and material shortages; the maintenance of satisfactory relationships with labor unions and joint venture partners; the ability and willingness of parties with whom we have material relationships to perform their obligations to us; changes in the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and trade credit, changes in the availability of unsecured credit and changes affecting the credit markets generally; and the other factors described item 1a. risk factors. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements except to the extent required by applicable law. 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview marathon petroleum corporation ( mpc ) was incorporated in delaware on november 9, 2009 in connection with an internal restructuring of marathon oil corporation ( marathon oil ). on may 25, 2011, the marathon oil board of directors approved the spinoff of its refining, marketing &amp; transportation business ( rm&amp;t business ) into an independent, publicly traded company, mpc, through the distribution of mpc common stock to the stockholders of marathon oil common stock. in accordance with a separation and distribution agreement between marathon oil and mpc, the distribution of mpc common stock was made on june 30, 2011, with marathon oil stockholders receiving one share of mpc common stock for every two shares of marathon oil common stock held (the spinoff ). marathon oil received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of shares of mpc common stock in the spinoff qualifies as tax-free to marathon oil, mpc and marathon oil stockholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a) and related provisions of the internal revenue code of 1986. following the spinoff, marathon oil retained no ownership interest in mpc, and each company had separate public ownership, boards of directors and management. a registration statement on form 10, as amended through the time of its effectiveness, describing the spinoff was filed by mpc with the securities and exchange commission and was declared effective on june 6, 2011. all subsidiaries and equity method investments not contributed by marathon oil to mpc remained with marathon oil. on july 1, 2011, our common stock began trading regular-way on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) under the ticker symbol mpc . we are one of the largest petroleum product refiners, marketers and transporters in the united states. our operations consist of three business segments: refining &amp; marketing refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our six refineries in the gulf coast and midwest regions of the united states, purchases ethanol and refined products for resale and distributes refined products through various means, including barges, terminals and trucks that we own or operate. we sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, to buyers on the spot market, to our speedway business segment and to dealers and jobbers who operate marathon &reg; retail outlets; speedway sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market in the midwest, primarily through speedway &reg; convenience stores; and pipeline transportation transports crude oil and other feedstocks to our refineries and other locations, delivers refined products to wholesale and retail market areas and includes, among other transportation-related assets, a majority interest in loop llc, which is the owner and operator of the only u.s. deepwater oil port. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 8 for operating segment and geographic financial information, which is incorporated herein by reference. on december 1, 2010, we completed the sale of most of our minnesota assets. these assets included the 74,000 barrel-per-day st. paul park refinery and associated terminals, 166 convenience stores primarily branded superamerica &reg; (including six stores in wisconsin) along with the supermom &reg; bakery (a baked goods and sandwich supply operation) and certain associated trademarks, superamerica franchising llc, interests in pipeline assets in minnesota and associated inventories. we refer to these assets as the minnesota assets. the operating statistics included in this section reflect the exclusion of these assets, except as otherwise indicated. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 5 for additional information on the disposition of these assets. 3 table of contents our competitive strengths high quality asset base we believe we are the largest crude oil refiner in the midwest and the fifth largest in the united states based on crude oil refining capacity. we currently own a six-plant refinery network with approximately 1.2 million barrels per calendar day ( mmbpcd ) of crude oil throughput capacity. our refineries process a wide range of crude oils, including heavy and sour crude oils, which can generally be purchased at a discount to sweet crude, and produce transportation fuels such as gasoline and distillates, as well as other refined products. strategic location the geographic locations of our refineries and our extensive midstream distribution system provide us with strategic advantages. located in petroleum administration for defense district ( padd ) ii and padd iii, which consist of states in the midwest and the gulf coast regions of the united states, our refineries have the ability to procure crude oil from a variety of supply sources, including domestic, canadian and other foreign sources, which provides us with flexibility to optimize supply costs. for example, geographic proximity to canadian crude oil supply sources allows our refineries to incur lower transportation costs than competitors transporting canadian crude oil to the gulf coast for refining. our refinery locations and midstream distribution system also allow us to access export markets and to serve a broad range of key end-user markets across the united states quickly and cost-effectively. attractive growth opportunities through internal projects we believe that we have attractive growth opportunities through internal capital projects. in 2009, we completed a major expansion project at our garyville, louisiana refinery, which initially expanded the crude oil refining capacity of this refinery by 180 thousand barrels per calendar day ( mbpcd ) to 436 mbpcd. we have continued 4 table of contents to debottleneck the expanded refinery and have increased the crude oil refining capacity to 490 mbpcd as of december 31, 2011. the garyville major expansion project has enhanced our scale efficiency, our feedstock flexibility and access to global markets. we are also continuing work on a $2.2 billion (excluding capitalized interest) heavy oil upgrading and expansion project at our detroit, michigan refinery. we expect construction will be completed in the third quarter of 2012 with full integration into the refinery by year-end 2012. the project will enable the refinery to process additional heavy, sour crude oils, including canadian bitumen blends, which have traded at a steep discount to light sweet crude oil, and is expected to increase the refinery crude oil refining capacity by approximately 15 thousand barrels per day ( mbpd ). extensive midstream distribution networks we believe the relative scale of our transportation and distribution assets and operations distinguishes us from other refining and marketing companies. we currently own, lease or have ownership interests in approximately 8,300 miles of crude oil and refined product pipelines. we are one of the largest petroleum pipeline companies in the united states on the basis of total volume delivered. we also own one of the largest private domestic fleets of inland petroleum product barges and one of the largest terminal operations in the united states, as well as trucking and rail assets. we operate this system in coordination with our refining and marketing network, which enables us to optimize feedstock and raw material supplies and refined product distribution. this in turn results in economy-of-scale advantages that contribute to profitability. competitively positioned marketing operations we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers within our market area. we have two strong retail brands: speedway &reg; and marathon &reg; . we believe our 1,371 speedway &reg; convenience stores, which we operate through a wholly owned subsidiary, speedway llc, comprise the fourth largest chain of company-owned and operated retail gasoline and convenience stores in the united states. the marathon brand is an established motor fuel brand in the midwest and southeast regions of the united states, and is available through more than 5,000 retail outlets operated by jobbers and dealers in 18 states. we believe our distribution system allows us to maximize the sales value of our products and minimize cost. 5 table of contents established track record of profitability and diversified income stream we have demonstrated an ability to achieve positive financial results throughout all stages of the recent business cycle. our historical net income in 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $2.39 billion, $623 million and $449 million, respectively. we believe our business mix and strategies position us well to continue to achieve competitive financial results. as shown in the following chart, income from operations attributable to the speedway and pipeline transportation segments is less sensitive to business cycles while income from operations for the refining &amp; marketing segment fluctuates to a greater degree. our business strategies maintain investment grade credit profile as of december 31, 2011, we had $3.08 billion in cash and cash equivalents and $3.0 billion in unused committed credit facilities. we also had $3.31 billion of debt at year-end, which represented only 26 percent of our total capitalization. this strong balance sheet and liquidity position helped support our investment-grade credit profile that we have had since the spinoff and continues to be a strategic objective as we go forward. balance investments in the business with return of capital to stockholders a significant decision we make is how to use the cash that we generate to maximize stockholder value. in october 2011, the board of directors authorized a 25 percent increase in the quarterly dividend and in february 2012, the repurchase of up to $2.0 billion of our common stock over the next two years. we also seek to increase stockholder value by investing in acquisitions, capital additions and other commercial opportunities. pursue growth by expanding and upgrading existing asset base we continually evaluate opportunities to expand our existing asset base and consider capital projects that enhance our core competitiveness in the refining, marketing and transportation businesses. examples include our garyville refinery major expansion project completed in 2009 and our on-going heavy oil upgrading and expansion project at our detroit, michigan refinery. we will continue to pursue other organic growth opportunities that provide an attractive return on capital. 6 table of contents increase profitability through margin improvement we intend to increase the profitability of our existing assets by pursuing a number of margin improvement opportunities, including increasing our feedstock flexibility and our production of high-value end products. selectively pursue acquisitions we will continue to evaluate potential acquisitions, with the aim of increasing earnings while maintaining financial discipline. for example, our speedway segment completed the acquisition of 23 convenience stores in the chicago market in 2011 and we announced on february 9, 2012 that speedway signed an agreement to acquire an additional 88 convenience stores throughout indiana and ohio from gasamerica services, inc. we intend to continue growing the speedway segment, in part, by acquisition. evaluate strategic alternatives for midstream assets on february 1, 2012, we announced that we are evaluating strategic alternatives with respect to certain of our midstream assets, including, but not limited to, the possible formation and initial public offering of a master limited partnership ( mlp ). midstream assets are generally considered those involved in transportation, storage and logistics operations. if we determine to further pursue an initial public offering of an mlp, we would not expect to file a registration statement before the end of the second quarter of 2012. the above discussion contains forward-looking statements with respect to our business strategies, including our midstream asset evaluation. there can be no assurance that we will be successful, in whole or in part, in pursuing our business strategies, including whether our evaluation of our midstream assets will lead to an initial public offering of an mlp or any other transaction, or that if any transaction is further pursued, that it will be consummated. some of the factors that could affect the midstream asset evaluation and the outcome of such evaluation include risks relating to securities markets generally, the impact of adverse market conditions affecting our midstream business, adverse changes in laws including with respect to tax and regulatory matters and other risks. refining &amp; marketing we currently own and operate six refineries in the gulf coast and midwest regions of the united states with an aggregate crude oil refining capacity of approximately 1.2 mmbpcd as of december 31, 2011. during 2011, our refineries processed 1,177 mbpd of crude oil and 181 mbpd of other charge and blend stocks. during 2010 (including the st. paul park refinery until december 1), our refineries processed 1,173 mbpd of crude oil and 162 mbpd of other charge and blend stocks. the table below sets forth the location and crude oil refining capacity of each of our refineries. refinery december 31, 2011 crude oil refining capacity (mbpcd) (a) garyville, louisiana 490 catlettsburg, kentucky 233 robinson, illinois 206 detroit, michigan 106 texas city, texas 80 canton, ohio 78 total 1,193 (a) refining throughput can exceed crude oil capacity due to the processing of other feedstocks in addition to crude oil and the timing of planned turnaround and major maintenance activity. 7 table of contents our refineries include crude oil atmospheric and vacuum distillation, fluid catalytic cracking, catalytic reforming, desulfurization and sulfur recovery units. the refineries process a wide variety of crude oils and produce numerous refined products, ranging from transportation fuels, such as reformulated gasolines, blend-grade gasolines intended for blending with fuel ethanol and ultra-low-sulfur diesel fuel, to heavy fuel oil and asphalt. additionally, we manufacture aromatics, propane, propylene, cumene and sulfur. our refineries are integrated with each other via pipelines, terminals and barges to maximize operating efficiency. the transportation links that connect our refineries allow the movement of intermediate products between refineries to optimize operations, produce higher margin products and utilize our processing capacity efficiently. for example, naphtha may be moved from texas city to robinson where excess reforming capacity is available. also, by shipping intermediate products between facilities during partial refinery shutdowns, we are able to utilize processing capacity that is not directly affected by the shutdown work. garyville, louisiana refinery . our garyville, louisiana refinery is located along the mississippi river in southeastern louisiana between new orleans and baton rouge. the garyville refinery is configured to process heavy sour crude oil into products such as gasoline, distillates, asphalt, polymer grade propylene, propane, isobutane, sulfur and fuel-grade coke. an expansion project was completed in the fourth quarter of 2009 that increased garyville crude oil refining capacity, making it one of the largest refineries in the u.s. our garyville refinery has earned designation as a u.s. occupational safety and health administration ( osha ) voluntary protection program ( vpp ) star site. catlettsburg, kentucky refinery . our catlettsburg, kentucky refinery is located in northeastern kentucky on the western bank of the big sandy river, near the confluence with the ohio river. the catlettsburg refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into products such as gasoline, distillates, asphalt, cumene, petrochemicals, propane and propylene. robinson, illinois refinery . our robinson, illinois refinery is located in southeastern illinois. the robinson refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into products such as multiple grades of gasoline, distillates, anode-grade coke, propane, butane and propylene. the robinson refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. detroit, michigan refinery . our detroit, michigan refinery is located near interstate 75 in southwest detroit. it is the only petroleum refinery currently operating in michigan. the detroit refinery processes light sweet and heavy sour crude oils, including canadian crude oils, into products such as gasoline, distillates, asphalt, slurry, propane, and propylene. our detroit refinery earned designation as a michigan vpp star site in 2010. in 2007, we approved a heavy oil upgrading and expansion project at this refinery, with a current projected cost of $2.2 billion (excluding capitalized interest). this project will enable the refinery to process an additional 80 mbpd of heavy sour crude oils, including canadian bitumen blends, and will increase its total crude oil refining capacity by approximately 15 mbpd. construction began in the first half of 2008 and overall progress reached 85 percent completion at december 31, 2011. the project is expected to complete construction in the third quarter of 2012 with full integration into the refinery by year-end 2012. canton, ohio refinery . our canton, ohio refinery is located approximately 60 miles southeast of cleveland, ohio. the canton refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into products such as gasoline, distillates, asphalt, propane, slurry and roofing flux. texas city, texas refinery . our texas city, texas refinery is located on the texas gulf coast approximately 30 miles south of houston, texas. the refinery processes sweet crude oil into products such as gasoline, chemical grade propylene, propane, slurry and aromatics. planned maintenance activities, or turnarounds, requiring temporary shutdown of certain refinery operating units, are periodically performed at each refinery. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional detail. 8 table of contents the above discussion includes forward-looking statements concerning the detroit refinery heavy oil upgrading and expansion project. some factors that could affect this project include transportation logistics, availability of materials and labor, unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions, delays in obtaining or conditions imposed by necessary government and third-party approvals and other risks customarily associated with construction projects. refined product yields the following table sets forth our refinery production (including the st. paul park refinery until december 1, 2010) by product group for each of the last three years. refined product yields (mbpd) 2011 2010 2009 gasoline 739 726 669 distillates 433 409 326 propane 25 24 23 feedstocks and special products 109 97 62 heavy fuel oil 21 24 24 asphalt 56 76 66 total 1,383 1,356 1,170 crude oil supply we obtain most of the crude oil we refine through negotiated contracts and purchases or exchanges on the spot market. our crude oil supply contracts are generally term contracts with market-related pricing provisions. the following table provides information on our sources of crude oil for each of the last three years (including the st. paul park refinery until december 1, 2010). the crude oil sourced outside of north america was acquired from various foreign national oil companies, production companies and trading companies. sources of crude oil refined (mbpd) 2011 2010 2009 united states 668 720 613 canada 177 115 136 middle east and africa 286 250 154 other international 46 88 54 total 1,177 1,173 957 average cost of crude oil throughtput (dollars per barrel) $ 102.83 $ 78.57 $ 62.10 our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks and distribute our refined products through a variety of channels, including pipelines, trucks, railcars, ships and barges. refined product marketing and distribution we believe we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers and consumers within our 17-state market area in the midwest, gulf coast and southeast regions of the united states. independent retailers, wholesale customers, marathon-branded jobbers, our speedway &reg; convenience stores, airlines, transportation companies and utilities comprise the core of our customer base. in addition, we sell distillates and asphalt for export to international customers, primarily out of the garyville refinery. sales destined for export comprised approximately 16 percent of our distillate sales and 11 percent of our asphalt sales in 2011. 9 table of contents the following table sets forth, as a percentage of total refined product sales, sales of refined products to our different customer types for the past three years (including the minnesota assets until december 1, 2010). refined product sales by customer type 2011 2010 2009 private-brand marketers, commercial and industrial customers, including spot market 72% 70% 68% marathon branded dealers and jobbers 17% 17% 18% speedway &reg; convenience stores 11% 13% 14% the following table sets forth the approximate number of retail outlets (by state) where dealers and jobbers maintain marathon-branded retail outlets, as of december 31, 2011: state approximate number of marathon &reg; retail outlets alabama 138 florida 262 georgia 266 illinois 439 indiana 652 kentucky 599 maryland 1 michigan 779 minnesota 82 north carolina 314 ohio 871 pennsylvania 24 south carolina 128 tennessee 172 texas 1 virginia 138 west virginia 99 wisconsin 81 total 5,046 the following table sets forth our refined products sales volumes by product group and our average sales price for each of the last three years (including the minnesota assets until december 1, 2010). refined product sales (mbpd) 2011 2010 2009 gasoline 908 912 819 distillates 459 434 355 propane 25 24 23 feedstocks and special products 111 103 75 heavy fuel oil 19 23 24 asphalt 59 77 69 total 1,581 1,573 1,365 average sales price, including consumer excise taxes (dollars per barrel) $ 123.14 $ 94.13 $ 77.91 10 table of contents as of december 31, 2011, we owned and operated 62 light product and 21 asphalt terminals. in addition, we distribute through approximately 52 third-party light product and 12 third-party asphalt terminals in our market area. as of that date, our marine transportation operations included 15 towboats, as well as 167 owned and 14 leased barges that transport refined products on the ohio, mississippi and illinois rivers and their tributaries, as well as the intercoastal waterway. we lease or own approximately 1,950 railcars of various sizes and capacities for movement and storage of refined products. in addition, we own 124 transport trucks for the movement of refined products. gasoline and distillates . we sell gasoline, gasoline blendstocks and distillates (including no. 1 and no. 2 fuel oils, kerosene, jet fuel and diesel fuel) to wholesale customers, marathon-branded jobbers and dealers and our speedway &reg; convenience stores in the midwest, gulf coast and southeast regions of the united states and on the spot market. in addition, we sell diesel fuel for export to international customers. we sold 56 percent of our gasoline sales volumes and 89 percent of our distillates sales volumes on a wholesale or spot market basis in 2011. the demand for gasoline and distillates is seasonal in many of our markets, with demand typically at its highest levels during the summer months. we have blended ethanol into gasoline for more than 20 years and began expanding our blending program in 2007, in part due to federal regulations that require us to use specified volumes of renewable fuels. ethanol volumes sold in blended gasoline (including the minnesota assets until december 1, 2010) were 70 mbpd in 2011, 68 mbpd in 2010 and 60 mbpd in 2009. the future expansion or contraction of our ethanol blending program will be driven by the economics of the ethanol supply and by government regulations. we sell reformulated gasoline, which is also blended with ethanol, in parts of our marketing territory, including: chicago, illinois; louisville, kentucky; northern kentucky; and milwaukee, wisconsin. we also sell biodiesel-blended diesel fuel in illinois, kentucky, north carolina, florida, georgia and pennsylvania. we hold a 36 percent interest in an entity which owns and operates a 110-million-gallon-per-year ethanol production facility in clymers, indiana. we also own a 50 percent interest in an entity which owns a 110-million-gallon-per-year ethanol production facility in greenville, ohio. both of these facilities are managed by a co-owner. propane . we produce propane at all six of our refineries. propane is primarily used for home heating and cooking, as a feedstock within the petrochemical industry, for grain drying and as a fuel for trucks and other vehicles. our propane sales are typically split evenly between the home heating market and industrial consumers. feedstocks and special products . we are a producer and marketer of feedstocks and specialty products. product availability varies by refinery and includes propylene, cumene, dilute naphthalene oil, molten sulfur, toluene, benzene and xylene. we market all products domestically to customers in the chemical, agricultural and fuel blending industries. in addition, we have the capacity to produce 1,400 tons per calendar day of anode-grade coke at our robinson refinery, which is used to make carbon anodes for the aluminum smelting industry, and 5,800 tons per calendar day of fuel-grade coke at the garyville refinery, which is used for power generation and in miscellaneous industrial applications. heavy fuel oil . we produce and market heavy residual fuel oil or related components at all six of our refineries. heavy residual fuel oil is primarily used in the utility and ship bunkering (fuel) industries, though there are other more specialized uses of the product. asphalt . we have refinery-based asphalt production capacity of up to 92 mbpcd. we market asphalt through 33 owned or leased terminals throughout the midwest and southeast. we have a broad customer base, including asphalt-paving contractors, government entities (states, counties, cities and townships) and asphalt roofing shingle manufacturers. we sell asphalt in the domestic and export wholesale markets via rail, barge and vessel. we also produce asphalt cements, polymer modified asphalt, emulsified asphalt and industrial asphalts. 11 table of contents speedway our speedway segment sells gasoline and merchandise through convenience stores that it owns and operates, primarily under the speedway brand. diesel fuel is also sold at the vast majority of these convenience stores. speedway-branded convenience stores offer a wide variety of merchandise, such as prepared foods, beverages and non-food items, including a number of private-label items. speedy rewards , an industry-leading customer loyalty program, has achieved significant customer engagement over the years since its introduction in 2004. the average monthly active membership in 2011 was more than 3 million customers. as of december 31, 2011, speedway had 1,371 convenience stores in seven states. revenues from sales of merchandise (including sales from convenience stores we sold as part of the december 1, 2010 sale of the minnesota assets) totaled $2.92 billion in 2011, $3.20 billion in 2010 and $3.11 billion in 2009. the demand for gasoline is seasonal, with the highest demand usually occurring during the summer driving season. margins from the sale of merchandise tend to be less volatile than margins from the retail sale of gasoline and diesel fuel. as of december 31, 2011, the speedway segment convenience stores were located in the following states: state number of convenience stores illinois 108 indiana 237 kentucky 131 michigan 301 ohio 471 west virginia 60 wisconsin 63 total 1,371 harris interactive annual harris poll equitrend &reg; brand equity study named speedway the number one gasoline brand with consumers for each of the past three years. for 2011, speedway was presented with a convenience retailing award from csp information group, inc., for consumer experience provided by the speedy rewards program. pipeline transportation we own common carrier pipeline systems through marathon pipe line llc ( mpl ) and ohio river pipe line llc ( orpl ), both of which are wholly owned subsidiaries. these pipeline systems transport crude oil and refined products, primarily in the midwest and gulf coast regions, to our refineries, our terminals and other pipeline systems. our common carrier pipeline systems are subject to state and federal energy regulatory commission regulations and guidelines, including published tariffs for the transportation of crude oil and refined products. our mpl and orpl wholly owned and undivided interest common carrier systems consist of 1,707 miles of crude oil lines and 1,825 miles of refined product lines comprising 31 systems located in 11 states, as of december 31, 2011. in addition, mpl leases and operates 217 miles of common carrier refined product pipelines. our major mpl owned and operated crude oil lines run from: patoka, illinois to catlettsburg kentucky; patoka, illinois to robinson, illinois; patoka, illinois to lima, ohio; and samaria, michigan to detroit, michigan. in addition, mpl owns a 33 percent undivided joint interest in the capline system, a large diameter crude oil pipeline extending from st. james, louisiana to patoka, illinois; and a 26 percent undivided joint interest in the maumee pipeline system, a large diameter crude oil pipeline extending from lima, ohio to samaria, michigan. our major common carrier refined product pipelines include the owned and operated cardinal products pipeline and the wabash pipeline. the cardinal products pipeline delivers refined products from kenova, west virginia, 12 table of contents to columbus, ohio. the wabash pipeline system delivers refined products from robinson, illinois, to various terminals in the area of chicago, illinois. other significant refined product pipelines owned and operated by mpl extend from: robinson, illinois to louisville, kentucky; robinson, illinois to lima, ohio; wood river, illinois to indianapolis, indiana; garyville, louisiana to zachary, louisiana; and texas city, texas to pasadena, texas. the mpl common carrier pipeline network is one of the largest petroleum pipeline systems in the united states, based on total volume delivered. third parties generated 17 percent of the crude oil and refined product shipments on our mpl and orpl common carrier pipelines in 2011. our mpl and orpl common carrier pipelines transported the volumes shown in the following table for each of the last three years. pipeline barrels handled (mbpd) 2011 2010 2009 crude oil trunk lines (a) 1,184 1,204 1,113 refined products trunk lines 1,031 968 953 total 2,215 2,172 2,066 (a) for all periods presented, excludes volumes transported on a crude oil system that was transferred from common carrier to private service in the fourth quarter of 2009. as of december 31, 2011, we had partial ownership interests in the following pipeline companies that have approximately 110 miles of crude oil pipelines and 3,600 miles of refined products pipelines, including about 970 miles operated by mpl: centennial pipeline llc ( centennial ) we hold a 50% interest in centennial which owns a refined products pipeline system connecting the gulf coast region with the midwest market; explorer pipeline company ( explorer ) we hold a 17% interest in explorer, a refined products pipeline system extending from the gulf coast to the midwest; locap llc ( locap ) we hold a 59% interest in locap which owns a crude oil pipeline connecting the louisiana offshore oil port and the capline system; loop llc ( loop ) we hold a 51% interest in loop, the owner and operator of the louisiana offshore oil port, which is the only u.s. deepwater oil port capable of receiving crude oil from very large crude carriers, located 18 miles off the coast of louisiana, and a crude oil pipeline connecting the port facility to storage caverns and tanks at clovelly, louisiana; muskegon pipeline llc ( muskegon ) we hold a 60% interest in muskegon, which owns a refined products pipeline extending from griffith, indiana to north muskegon, michigan; and wolverine pipe line company ( wolverine ) we hold a 6 percent interest in wolverine, a refined products pipeline system extending from chicago, illinois to toledo, ohio. we also own 175 miles of private crude oil pipelines, 693 miles of private refined products pipelines and private storage facilities that are operated, by mpl, for the benefit of our refining &amp; marketing segment on a cost recovery basis. our major private crude oil lines run from lima, ohio to canton, ohio; and st. james, louisiana to garyville, louisiana. our major private refined products pipelines run from robinson, illinois to lima, ohio; martinsville, illinois to indianapolis, indiana; and princeton, indiana to robinson, illinois. in addition, we own a 65 percent undivided joint interest in the louisville-lexington system, a refined products pipeline system extending from louisville to lexington, kentucky. competition and market conditions the downstream petroleum business is highly competitive, particularly with regard to accessing crude oil and other feedstock supply and the marketing of refined products. we compete with a large number of other companies to acquire crude oil for refinery processing and in the distribution and marketing of a full array of 13 table of contents petroleum products. based upon the the oil &amp; gas journal 2011 worldwide refinery survey, we ranked fifth among u.s. petroleum companies on the basis of u.s. crude oil refining capacity as of january 1, 2012. we compete in four distinct markets for the sale of refined products wholesale, spot, branded and retail distribution. we believe we compete with about 70 companies in the sale of refined products to wholesale marketing customers, including private-brand marketers and large commercial and industrial consumers; about 90 companies in the sale of refined products in the spot market; 11 refiners or marketers in the supply of refined products to refiner-branded dealers and jobbers; and approximately 240 retailers in the retail sale of refined products. in addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. we do not produce any of the crude oil we refine. we also face strong competition for sales of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. our competitors include service stations and convenience stores operated by fully integrated major oil companies and their dealers and jobbers and other well-recognized national or regional convenience stores and travel centers, often selling gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise at aggressively competitive prices. non-traditional retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, have affected the convenience store industry with their entrance into the retail transportation fuel business. energy analysts international, inc. estimates such retailers had 12 percent of the u.s. gasoline market in 2011. our pipeline transportation operations are highly regulated, which affects the rates that our common carrier pipelines can charge for transportation services and the return we obtain from such pipelines. market conditions in the oil and gas industry are cyclical and subject to global economic and political events and new and changing governmental regulations. our operating results are affected by price changes in crude oil, natural gas and refined products, as well as changes in competitive conditions in the markets we serve. price differentials between sweet and sour crude oil also affect our operating results. demand for gasoline, diesel fuel and asphalt is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets, primarily due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and construction. as a result, the operating results for each of our segments for the first and fourth quarters are generally lower than for those in the second and third quarters of each calendar year. environmental matters our management is responsible for ensuring that our operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that support and foster our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and for reviewing our overall performance associated with various environmental compliance programs. we also have a crisis management team, composed primarily of senior management, that oversees our response to any major environmental or other emergency incident involving us or any of our facilities. we believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to issues concerning the extent, causes of and responsibility for climate change will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations. currently, various legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gases are in various phases of review, discussion or implementation. the cost to comply with these laws and regulations cannot be estimated at this time, but could be significant. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors. we estimate and publicly report greenhouse gas emissions from our operations and products we produce. additionally, we continuously strive to improve operational and energy efficiencies through resource and energy conservation where practicable and cost effective. our operations are also subject to numerous other laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. these environmental laws and regulations include, among others, the clean air act with respect to air emissions, the clean water act ( cwa ) with respect to water discharges, the resource conservation and 14 table of contents recovery act ( rcra ) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ( cercla ) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances and the oil pollution act of 1990 ( opa-90 ) with respect to oil pollution and response. in addition, many states where we operate have similar laws dealing with similar matters. new laws are being enacted and regulations are being adopted by various regulatory agencies on a continuing basis, and the costs of compliance with any new laws and regulations are very difficult to estimate at this time. in some cases, existing environmental laws can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup of a contaminated site on any responsible party without regard to negligence or fault and impose liability on us for the conduct of others or conditions others have caused, or for our acts that complied with all applicable requirements when we performed them. the ultimate cost of cleanup under such laws can be difficult to accurately predict. in other cases, the ultimate impact of complying with existing laws and regulations may not be clearly known or determinable because certain implementing regulations for some environmental laws have not yet been finalized or, in some instances, are undergoing revision. these environmental laws and regulations, particularly the 1990 amendments to the clean air act and its implementing regulations, new water quality requirements and stricter fuel regulations, could result in increased capital, operating and compliance costs. for a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and costs of compliance for air, water, solid waste and remediation, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations environmental matters and compliance costs. air we are subject to substantial requirements in connection with air emissions from our operations. the u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) issued an endangerment finding in 2009 to the effect that greenhouse gases contribute to air pollution and endanger public health and welfare. related to this endangerment finding, in april 2010, the epa finalized a greenhouse gas emissions standard for mobile sources (cars and light duty vehicles). the endangerment finding along with the mobile source standard and epa determination that greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the clean air act, was expected to lead to widespread regulation of stationary sources of greenhouse gas emissions. as a result, the epa issued a so-called tailoring rule to limit the applicability of the epa major permitting programs to larger sources of greenhouse gas emissions, such as our refineries. although legal challenges have been filed against these epa actions, no court decisions are expected until sometime in 2012. the epa has also issued its plan for establishing specific greenhouse gas emission requirements under the clean air act. under this plan, the epa is expected to propose broad standards for refineries in early 2012, and is expected to issue final standards as soon as november 2012. congress may continue to consider legislation on greenhouse gas emissions, which may include a delay in the implementation of greenhouse gas regulations by the epa or a limitation on epa authority to regulate greenhouse gases. although there may be an adverse financial impact (including compliance costs, potential permitting delays and potential reduced demand for certain refined products made from crude oil) associated with any legislation, regulation or other action, the extent and magnitude of that impact cannot be reliably or accurately estimated due to the fact that requirements have only recently been adopted and the present uncertainty regarding the additional measures and how they will be implemented. private parties have sued various emitters of greenhouse gas emissions, but we have not been named in any of those lawsuits. private-party litigation is also pending against federal and certain state governmental entities seeking additional greenhouse gas emission reductions beyond those currently being undertaken. of particular significance to our refining operations were epa mobile source air toxics ii ( msat ii ) regulations that require reduced benzene levels in refined products. we have completed all msat ii projects and all msat ii compliance units were in operation as of december 31, 2011. we spent approximately $620 million over a four-year period that began in 2008 to comply with the msat ii regulations. the epa is in the process of implementing regulations to address the national ambient air quality standards (the naaqs ) for fine particulate emissions and ozone. the epa has proposed and finalized rules directed at 15 table of contents electric generating units but not refineries. however, a federal court has stayed some requirements and other requirements are expected to be finalized during 2012. we cannot reasonably estimate any final financial impact of these rules until the epa has finalized rules directed at refineries, resolved legal challenges, and the costs for implementation of the final rules have been evaluated. the epa has reviewed and has revised or will propose to revise naaqs for criteria air pollutants. the epa promulgated a revised ozone standard in march 2008, and commenced a multi-year process to develop the implementing rules required by the clean air act. in 2009, the epa announced that it would reconsider the level of the ozone standard, but then in 2011, it was announced that the ozone standard would not be further revised but would be further reviewed as part of epa next periodic review of that standard. also, in 2010, the epa adopted new short term standards for nitrogen dioxide and sulfur dioxide. we anticipate the epa will issue a proposed revision to the fine particulate matter (pm 2.5) standard in 2012. we cannot reasonably estimate the final financial impact of these revised naaqs standards until the standards are finalized, implementing rules are established and judicial challenges over the revised naaqs standards are resolved. the epa boiler and process heater maximum achievable control technology ( boiler mact ) rule was finalized in march 2011 with work practice standards that are applicable to refinery and natural gas fired equipment. under the boiler mact rule, we anticipate limited financial impacts from implementing the epa work practice standards for existing equipment by the march 23, 2014 compliance deadline. however, the epa is currently reconsidering most provisions of this rule and on december 23, 2011, the epa proposed additional revisions to the boiler mact rule as part of its reconsideration. we cannot reasonably estimate the ultimate financial impact of the boiler mact rule until after the reconsideration by the epa. water we maintain numerous discharge permits as required under the national pollutant discharge elimination system program of the cwa and have implemented systems to oversee our compliance efforts. in addition, we are regulated under opa-90, which amended the cwa. among other requirements, opa-90 requires the owner or operator of a tank vessel or a facility to maintain an emergency plan to respond to releases of oil or hazardous substances. also, in case of any such release, opa-90 requires the responsible company to pay resulting removal costs and damages. opa-90 also provides for civil penalties and imposes criminal sanctions for violations of its provisions. additionally, opa-90 requires that new tank vessels entering or operating in u.s. waters be double-hulled and that existing tank vessels that are not double-hulled be retrofitted or removed from u.s. service, according to a phase-out schedule. all of the barges used for river transport of our raw materials and refined products meet the double-hulled requirements of opa-90. we operate facilities at which spills of oil and hazardous substances could occur. some coastal states in which we operate have passed state laws similar to opa-90, but with expanded liability provisions, including provisions for cargo owner responsibility as well as ship owner and operator responsibility. we have implemented emergency oil response plans for all of our components and facilities covered by opa-90 and we have established spill prevention, control and countermeasures ( spcc ) plans for facilities subject to cwa spcc requirements. solid waste we continue to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. rcra establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. besides affecting waste disposal practices, rcra also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of underground storage tanks ( usts ) containing regulated substances. we have ongoing rcra treatment and disposal operations at one of our facilities and primarily utilize offsite third-party treatment and disposal facilities. ongoing rcra-related costs, however, are not expected to be material to our results of operations or cash flows. 16 table of contents remediation we own or operate, or have owned or operated, certain retail outlets where, during the normal course of operations, releases of refined products from usts have occurred. federal and state laws require that contamination caused by such releases at these sites be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards. the enforcement of the ust regulations under rcra has been delegated to the states, which administer their own ust programs. our obligation to remediate such contamination varies, depending on the extent of the releases and the stringency of the laws and regulations of the states in which we operate. a portion of these remediation costs may be recoverable from the appropriate state ust reimbursement funds once the applicable deductibles have been satisfied. we also have ongoing remediation projects at a number of our refinery, terminal and pipeline locations. penalties or other sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance. claims under cercla and similar state acts have been raised with respect to the clean-up of various waste disposal and other sites. cercla is intended to facilitate the clean-up of hazardous substances without regard to fault. potentially responsible parties for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the hazardous substances at the site. liability is strict and can be joint and several. because of various factors including the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and clean-up costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, we are unable to reasonably estimate our ultimate cost of compliance with cercla; however, we do not believe such costs will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. mileage standards and renewable fuels requirements in 2007, the u.s. congress passed the energy independence and security act ( eisa ), which, among other things, set a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the united states by model year 2020, and contains a second renewable fuel standard (the rfs2 ). the epa announced the final rfs2 regulations on february 4, 2010. the rfs2 required 13.95 billion gallons of renewable fuel usage in 2011, increasing to 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. in the near term, the rfs2 will be satisfied primarily with fuel ethanol blended into gasoline. the rfs2 presents production and logistic challenges for both the fuel ethanol and petroleum refining and marketing industries. the rfs2 has required, and may in the future continue to require, additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased fuel ethanol use. within the overall 36.0 billion gallon rfs2, eisa established an advanced biofuel rfs2 volume of 1.35 billion gallons in 2011 and increases to 21.0 billion gallons by 2022. subsets within the advanced biofuel rfs2 include 0.80 billion gallons of biomass-based diesel in 2011, which is capped at 1.0 billion gallons starting in 2012, and 0.25 billion gallons of cellulosic biofuel in 2011, increasing to 16.0 billion gallons by 2022. the epa determined that 0.25 billion gallons of cellulosic biofuel would not be produced in 2011, and lowered the requirement to 6.6 million gallons. in addition, the requirement of 0.5 billion gallons of cellulosic biofuel for 2012 will also not be produced and the epa has lowered the requirement to 8.65 million gallons. the advanced biofuels programs will present specific challenges in that we may have to enter into arrangements with other parties to meet our obligations to use advanced biofuels, including biomass-based diesel and cellulosic biofuel, with potentially uncertain supplies of these new fuels. the advanced requirements for 2011 and 2012 require a substantial level of brazilian sugarcane ethanol imports since other sources of advanced renewable fuels are not available. we have made investments in infrastructure capable of expanding biodiesel blending capability in 2011, to be operational in 2012, to help comply with the biodiesel rfs2 requirement with physical blending as well as buying needed biodiesel renewable identification numbers ( rins ) in the epa-created biodiesel rins market. on october 13, 2010, the epa issued a partial waiver decision under the clean air act to allow for an increase in the amount of ethanol permitted to be blended into gasoline from 10 percent ( e10 ) to 15 percent ( e15 ) for 2007 and newer light-duty motor vehicles. then on january 21, 2011, the epa issued a second waiver for the use of e15 in vehicles model year 2001-2006. there are numerous issues, including state and federal regulatory issues, that would need to be addressed before e15 can be marketed for use in any traditional gasoline engines. as of the end of 2011, e15 is still not a legal fuel except in flex fuel vehicles in states that do not require an astm international fuel. 17 table of contents there will be compliance costs and uncertainties regarding how we will comply with the various requirements contained in eisa and related regulations. we may experience a decrease in demand for refined petroleum products due to an increase in combined fleet mileage or due to refined petroleum products being replaced by renewable fuels. trademarks, patents and licenses our marathon trademark is material to the conduct of our refining and marketing operations, and our speedway trademark is material to the conduct of our retail marketing operations. we currently hold a number of u.s. and foreign patents and have various pending patent applications. although in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important to us, we do not regard any single patent or license or group of related patents or licenses as critical or essential to our business as a whole. in general, we depend on our technological capabilities and the application of know-how rather than patents and licenses in the conduct of our operations. employees we had approximately 24,210 regular employees as of december 31, 2011, which includes approximately 16,739 employees of speedway. approximately 182 of these employees were working in the operations conducted through the minnesota assets, which we sold in december 2010. approximately 2,473 employees were transitioned to the buyer in 2011, primarily from speedway, and the remaining 182 employees transitioned in january 2012. certain hourly employees at our catlettsburg, canton and texas city refineries are represented by the united steel, paper and forestry, rubber, manufacturing, energy, allied industrial and service workers union under labor agreements that were due to expire in 2012. new labor agreements were negotiated in canton and texas city with expiration dates of january 2015 and march 2015, respectively. the labor agreement in catlettsburg was temporarily extended while negotiations continue on a new agreement. the international brotherhood of teamsters represents certain hourly employees at our detroit refinery under a labor agreement that is scheduled to expire in january 2014. executive officers of the registrant the executive officers of mpc and their ages as of february 1, 2012, are as follows: name age position with mpc gary r. heminger 58 president and chief executive officer pamela k.m. beall 55 vice president, investor relations and government &amp; public affairs richard d. bedell 57 senior vice president, refining michael g. braddock 54 vice president and controller timothy t. griffith 42 vice president of finance and treasurer thomas m. kelley 52 senior vice president, marketing anthony r. kenney 58 president, speedway llc rodney p. nichols 59 vice president, human resources and administrative services c. michael palmer 58 senior vice president, supply, distribution and planning garry l. peiffer 60 executive vice president, corporate planning and investor &amp; government relations george p. shaffner 52 senior vice president, transportation and logistics john s. swearingen 52 vice president, health, envirnmental, safety &amp; security donald c. templin 48 senior vice president and chief financial officer donald w. wehrly 52 vice president and chief information officer j. michael wilder 59 vice president, general counsel and secretary 18 table of contents with the exception of mr. griffith and mr. templin, all of the executive officers have held responsible management or professional positions with mpc, its affiliates or prior to the spinoff with marathon oil or its affiliates, for more than five years. mr. heminger was appointed president and chief executive officer effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. heminger was president of marathon petroleum company lp (formerly known as marathon ashland petroleum llc and marathon petroleum company llc), currently a wholly owned subsidiary of mpc and prior to the spinoff, a wholly owned subsidiary of marathon oil. he assumed responsibility as president of marathon petroleum company lp in september 2001. ms. beall was appointed vice president, investor relations and government &amp; public affairs effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, ms. beall was vice president, products supply and optimization of marathon petroleum company lp beginning in june 2010. she served as vice president of global procurement for marathon oil company between 2007 and 2010 and prior to that as organizational vice president, business development downstream. mr. bedell was appointed senior vice president, refining effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. bedell served in the same capacity for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in june 2010 and as manager, louisiana refining division beginning in 2001. mr. braddock was appointed vice president and controller effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. braddock was controller of marathon petroleum company lp beginning in 2008 and manager, internal audit between 2005 and 2008. mr. griffith was appointed vice president of finance and treasurer effective august 1, 2011. mr. griffith was vice president and treasurer of cooper-standard automotive, a global automotive supplier, in novi, michigan, from 2006 to 2008. subsequent to his position at cooper-standard, mr. griffith was vice president investor relations and treasurer of smurfit-stone container corporation, a packaging manufacturer, in st. louis, missouri. mr. kelley was appointed senior vice president, marketing effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. kelley served in the same capacity for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in january 2010. previously, he served as director of crude supply and logistics for marathon petroleum company lp from january 2008, and as a brand marketing manager for eight years prior to that. mr. kenney has served as president of speedway llc since august 2005. mr. nichols was appointed vice president, human resources and administrative services effective june 30, 2011 and served in the same capacity for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in april 1998. mr. palmer was appointed senior vice president, supply distribution &amp; planning effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. palmer served as vice president, supply distribution &amp; planning for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in june 2010. he served as crude supply and logistics director for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in february 2010, as senior vice president, oil sands operations and commercial activities for marathon oil canada corporation beginning in 2007, and as manager of business development for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in 1999. mr. peiffer was appointed executive vice president of corporate planning and investor &amp; government relations effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. peiffer was senior vice president of finance and commercial services for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in 1998. 19 table of contents mr. shaffner was appointed senior vice president, transportation and logistics effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. shaffner served in the same capacity for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in june 2010. previously, mr. shaffner served as division manager of the st. paul park, minnesota refinery beginning in 2003 and as michigan refining division manager beginning in october 2006. mr. swearingen was appointed vice president of health, environmental, safety &amp; security effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. swearingen was president of marathon pipe line llc beginning in 2009 and the illinois refining division manager beginning in november 2001. mr. templin was appointed senior vice president and chief financial officer effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. templin was a partner at pricewaterhousecoopers llp, an audit, tax and advisory services provider, with various audit and management responsibilities beginning in 1996. mr. wehrly was appointed vice president and chief information officer effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. wehrly was the manager of information technology services for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in 2003. mr. wilder was appointed vice president, general counsel and secretary effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. wilder was associate general counsel of marathon oil company beginning in 2010 and general counsel and secretary of marathon petroleum company lp beginning in 1997. available information general information about mpc, including corporate governance principles and charters for the audit committee, compensation committee and corporate governance and nominating committee, can be found at www.marathonpetroleum.com . in addition, our code of business conduct and code of ethics for senior financial officers are available at http://www.marathonpetroleum.com/investor_center/ . mpc uses its website, www.marathonpetroleum.com , as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, financial information and market data. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished with the sec. these documents are also available in hard copy, free of charge, by contacting our investor relations office. in addition, our website allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive email alerts when we post news releases and financial information on our website. information contained on our website is not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k or other securities filings. 20 table of contents item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k in evaluating us and our common stock. some of these risks relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate, while others relate principally to our spinoff from marathon oil, the ownership of our common stock and securities markets generally. our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks, and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline. risks relating to our industry and our business a substantial or extended decline in refining and marketing gross margins would reduce our operating results and cash flows and could materially adversely impact our future rate of growth and the carrying value of our assets. our operating results, cash flows, future rate of growth and the carrying value of our assets are highly dependent on the margins we realize on our refined products. the measure of the difference between market prices for refined products and crude oil, or crack spread, is commonly used by the industry as a proxy for refining and marketing gross margins. historically, refining and marketing gross margins have been volatile, and we believe they will continue to be volatile in the future. our margins and cost of producing gasoline and other refined products are influenced by a number of conditions, including the price of crude oil. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all of the crude oil we refine. the price of crude oil and the price at which we can sell our refined products may fluctuate independently due to a variety of regional and global market conditions. the overall change in crack spreads will impact our refining and marketing gross margins. many of the factors influencing the change in crack spreads and refining and marketing gross margins are beyond our control. these factors include: worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for crude oil and refined products; the cost of crude oil to be manufactured into refined products; utilization rates of refineries; natural gas and electricity supply costs incurred by refineries; the ability of the members of opec to agree to and maintain production controls; political instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions; local weather conditions; natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornados; the price and availability of alternative and competing forms of energy; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and local, regional, national and worldwide economic conditions. some of these factors can vary by region and may change quickly, adding to market volatility, while others may have long-term effects. the long-term effects of these and other factors on refining and marketing gross margins are uncertain. 21 table of contents we purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before refining and selling the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. we also purchase refined products manufactured by others for sale to our customers. price level changes during the periods between purchasing and selling those refined products also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. lower refining and marketing gross margins may reduce the amount of refined product that we produce, which may reduce our revenues, operating income and cash flows. significant reductions in refining and marketing gross margins could require us to reduce our capital expenditures or impair the carrying value of our assets. the availability of crude oil and increases in crude oil prices may reduce our profitability and refining and marketing gross margin. the profitability of our operations depends largely on the difference between the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks that we refine and the selling prices we obtain for refined products. a portion of our crude oil is purchased from various foreign national oil companies, producing companies and trading companies, including suppliers from the middle east. these purchases are subject to political, geographic and economic risks attendant to doing business with suppliers located in that area of the world. our overall profitability could be materially adversely affected by the availability of supply and rising crude oil and other feedstock prices that we do not recover in the marketplace. refining and marketing gross margins historically have been volatile and vary with the level of economic activity in various marketing areas, the regulatory climate, logistical capabilities and the available supply of refined products. our overall profitability could be materially adversely affected by factors that affect those margins, such as rising refined product prices that we are not able to recover in the retail marketplace. changes in environmental or other laws or regulations may reduce our refining and marketing gross margin. various environmental, safety, health, security, marketing and pricing laws and regulations have imposed, and are expected to continue to impose, increasingly stringent and costly requirements on our operations, which may reduce our refining and marketing gross margin. environmental laws and regulations, in particular, are subject to frequent change, and many of them have become and will continue to become more stringent. we believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to issues concerning the extent of, causes of, and responsibility for climate change will continue, with the potential for further laws and regulations that could affect our operations. currently, various legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) are in various phases of review, discussion or implementation in the united states. these include epa programs to control greenhouse gas emissions and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs, each of which could impose reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. these actions could result in increased (1) costs to operate and maintain our facilities, (2) capital expenditures to install new emission controls on our facilities and (3) costs to administer and manage any potential greenhouse gas emissions regulations or carbon trading or tax programs. although uncertain, these developments could increase our costs, reduce the demand for the products we sell and create delays in our obtaining air pollution permits for new or modified facilities. increases in fuel mileage standards and renewable fuels mandates may reduce demand for refined products. tax incentives and other subsidies have made renewable fuels more competitive with refined products than they otherwise would have been, which may have reduced and may further reduce refined product margins and their ability to compete with renewable fuels. in 2007, the u.s. congress passed the eisa, which, among other things, sets a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the united states by model year 2020, and contains a second renewable fuel standard commonly referred to as rfs2. in december 2011, the epa and the national highway traffic safety administration jointly proposed regulations that would establish average industry fleet fuel economy standards as high as 49.6 miles per gallon by model year 2025. the 22 table of contents rfs2 was 13.95 billion gallons of renewable fuel in 2011, and will increase to 36.0 billion gallons in 2022. in the near term, the rfs2 will be satisfied primarily with fuel ethanol blended into gasoline. the rfs2 presents production and logistics challenges for both the fuel ethanol and petroleum refining industries. the rfs2 has required, and may in the future continue to require, additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased fuel ethanol use. within the overall 36.0 billion gallon rfs2, the eisa established an advanced biofuel rfs2 volume of 1.35 billion gallons in 2011 and increases to 21.0 billion gallons in 2022. subsets within the advanced biofuel rfs2 include 0.08 billion gallons of biomass-based diesel in 2011, which is capped at 1.0 billion gallons beginning in 2012, and 0.25 billion gallons of cellulosic biofuel in 2011, increasing to 16.0 billion gallons by 2022. the epa determined that 0.25 billion gallons of cellulosic biofuel would not be produced in 2011 and has lowered the requirement to 6.6 million gallons. the advanced biofuels programs will present specific challenges in that we may have to enter into arrangements with other parties to meet our obligations to use advanced biofuels, including biomass-based diesel and cellulosic biofuel, with potentially uncertain supplies of these new fuels. there will be compliance costs and uncertainties regarding how we will comply with the various requirements contained in this law and related regulations. we may experience a decrease in demand for refined petroleum products due to an increase in combined fleet mileage or due to refined petroleum products being replaced by renewable fuels. our operations and those of our predecessors could expose us to civil claims by third parties for alleged liability resulting from contamination of the environment or personal injuries caused by releases of crude oil, motor fuel and other substances. for example, we have been, and presently are, a defendant in a lawsuit involving products liability and other claims related to alleged contamination of groundwater with the gasoline oxygenate methyl tertiary butyl ether ( mtbe ). we may become involved in further litigation or other proceedings, or we may be held responsible in existing or future litigation or proceedings, the costs of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have in the past operated convenience stores with underground storage tanks ( usts ), in various jurisdictions, and are currently operating convenience stores that have usts in numerous states in the united states. federal and state regulations and legislation govern the usts, and compliance with those requirements can be costly. the operation of usts also poses certain other risks, including damages associated with soil and groundwater contamination. leaks from usts which may occur at one or more of our convenience stores, or which may have occurred at our previously operated convenience stores, may impact soil or groundwater and could result in substantial cleanup costs, fines or civil liability for us. the discovery of additional contamination or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations at these or other convenience stores in the future could result in significant additional costs. we have in the past and will continue to dispose of various wastes at lawful disposal sites. environmental laws including cercla, and similar state laws can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup on any responsible party, without regard to negligence or fault, and impose liability on us for the conduct of others or conditions others have caused, or for our acts that complied with all applicable requirements when we performed them. if foreign ownership of our stock exceeds certain levels, we could be prohibited from operating inland river vessels, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to a variety of u.s. federal statutes and regulations, including the shipping act of 1916, as amended, and the merchant marine act of 1920, as amended, that govern the ownership and operation of certain vessels used to carry cargo between u.s. ports which we refer to collectively as the maritime laws. generally, the maritime laws require that vessels engaged in u.s. coastwise trade, and corporations operating such vessels, must be owned by u.s. citizens. although our restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions intended to assure compliance with these provisions of the maritime laws, if we fail to maintain compliance we would be prohibited from operating vessels in the u.s. inland waters during any period in which we did not comply with these regulations. such a prohibition could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 23 table of contents if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities (including the upgrading and expansion of our detroit refinery and improvements and repairs to our other facilities) could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we produce. such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: denial of or delay in receiving requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of components or construction materials; adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors or suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; market-related increases in a project debt or equity financing costs; and nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or subcontractors. any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our ongoing capital projects, including the upgrading and expansion of our detroit refinery. if we were unable to make up the delays associated with such factors or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we will continue to incur substantial capital expenditures and operating costs as a result of compliance with, and changes in, environmental, health, safety and security laws and regulations, and as a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our businesses are subject to numerous laws, regulations and other requirements relating to the protection of the environment, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, pollution prevention, greenhouse gas emissions, and characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, as well as laws and regulations relating to public and employee safety and health, and to facility security. we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of these laws and regulations. to the extent these expenditures, as is the case with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our operating results will be adversely affected. the specific impact of these laws and regulations on us and our competitors may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of operating facilities, marketing areas, crude oil and feedstock sources and production processes. we may also be required to make expenditures to modify operations, install pollution control equipment, perform site cleanups or curtail operations that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may become subject to liabilities that we currently do not anticipate in connection with new, amended or more stringent requirements, stricter interpretations of existing requirements or the future discovery of contamination. in addition, any failure by us to comply with existing or future laws or regulations could result in civil penalties or criminal fines and other sanctions and enforcement actions against us. 24 table of contents legislation or regulatory activity that impacts or could impact our operations includes, among others: in 2009, the epa issued a finding that greenhouse gas emissions contribute to air pollution that endangers public health and welfare. related to the endangerment finding, in april 2010, the epa finalized a greenhouse gas emission standard for mobile sources (cars and other light duty vehicles). the endangerment finding, along with the mobile source standard and epa determination that greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the u.s. clean air act, as amended (the clean air act ), was expected to lead to widespread regulation of stationary sources of greenhouse gas emissions. the epa has issued a so-called tailoring rule to limit the applicability of the epa major permitting programs to larger sources of greenhouse gas emissions, such as our refineries. although legal challenges have been filed against these epa actions, no court decisions are expected until sometime later in 2012. the epa has also issued its plan for establishing specific greenhouse gas emission standards under the clean air act. under this plan, the epa is expected to propose standards for refineries in 2012 and issue final standards as soon as november 2012. congress may continue to consider legislation on greenhouse gas emissions, which may include a delay in the implementation of greenhouse gas emissions regulations by the epa or a limitation on epa authority to regulate greenhouse gases. the united states pledge in 2009, as part of the copenhagen accord, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020, remains in effect. meetings of the united nations climate change conference, however, have produced no legally binding emission reduction requirements that apply to the united states. the state of california enacted legislation effective in 2007 capping california greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels by 2020 and california has established a cap-and-trade program which will start capping emissions in 2013 for significant sources of greenhouse gases. we do not conduct business in california, but other states where we have operations could adopt similar greenhouse gas legislation. although there may be adverse financial impacts (including compliance costs, potential permitting delays and potential reduced demand for certain refined products made from crude oil) associated with any legislation, regulation, epa action or other action, the extent and magnitude of that impact cannot be reliably or accurately estimated due to the fact that various requirements have only recently been adopted and there exists present uncertainty regarding additional measures and how they may be implemented. private-party litigation has also been brought against various emitters of greenhouse gas emissions, but we have not been named in any of those lawsuits. private party litigation is also pending against federal and certain state governmental entities seeking additional greenhouse gas emission reductions beyond those currently being undertaken. worldwide political and economic developments could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. local political and economic factors in global markets could have a material adverse effect on us. continued hostilities in the middle east and the occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economies of the united states and other developed countries. a lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could cause our revenues and margins to decline and limit our future growth prospects. these risks could lead to increased volatility in prices for refined products. additionally, these risks could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult or costly for us to access capital and to obtain the insurance coverage that we consider adequate. in addition, a significant portion of our feedstock requirements is satisfied through supplies originating in saudi arabia, kuwait, canada, mexico and various other foreign countries. we are, therefore, subject to the political, geographic and economic risks attendant to doing business with suppliers located in, and supplies originating from, those areas. if one or more of our supply sources were eliminated, or if political events disrupt our traditional crude oil supply, we believe that adequate alternative supplies of crude oil would be available, but it is 25 table of contents possible that we would be unable to find alternative sources of supply. if we are unable to obtain adequate crude oil volumes or are able to obtain such volumes only at unfavorable prices, our operations could be adversely affected, including reduced sales volumes of refined products or reduced margins as a result of higher crude oil costs, materially and adversely impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. actions of governments through tax and other legislation, executive order and commercial restrictions could reduce our operating profitability. the u.s. government can prevent or restrict us from doing business with foreign countries. competitors that produce their own supply of feedstocks, have more extensive retail outlets, or have greater financial resources may have a competitive advantage. the downstream petroleum business is highly competitive, particularly with regard to accessing crude oil and feedstock supply and marketing refined products. we compete with many companies for available supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks and for outlets for our refined products. in addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. we do not produce any of our crude oil supply. many of our competitors, however, obtain a significant portion of their crude oil from their own exploration and production activities and some have more extensive retail outlets than we have. competitors that have their own exploration and production activities are at times able to offset losses from downstream operations with profits from upstream operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refined product margins or feedstock shortages. some of our competitors also have significantly greater financial and other resources than we have. those competitors may have a greater ability to respond to volatile industry or market conditions, such as shortages of crude oil or other feedstocks or intense price fluctuations. we also face strong competition in the market for the sale of retail gasoline, diesel and merchandise. our competitors include service stations and convenience stores owned or operated by fully integrated major oil companies or their dealers or jobbers and other well-recognized national or regional retail outlets, often selling gasoline or merchandise at very competitive prices. several non-traditional retailers such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, are in the retail fuel business. these non-traditional gasoline retailers have obtained a significant share of the transportation fuels market, and we expect their market share to grow. because of their diversity, integration of operations, experienced management and greater resources, these companies may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions or levels of low or no profitability in the retail segment of the market. in addition, these retailers may use promotional pricing or discounts, both at the pump and in the store, to encourage in-store merchandise sales. these activities by our competitors could pressure us to offer similar discounts, adversely affecting our profit margins. additionally, the loss of market share by our convenience stores to these and other retailers relating to either gasoline or merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. we do not insure against all potential losses and, therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected liabilities and increased costs. our operations are subject to business interruptions due to scheduled refinery turnarounds and unplanned events such as explosions, fires, pipeline ruptures or other interruptions, crude oil or refined product spills, severe weather and labor disputes. for example, some of our pipelines provide the almost exclusive form of transportation of crude oil to, or refined products from, some of our refineries, and a prolonged interruption in service of any of these pipelines as a result of a pipeline rupture or due to any other reason could materially and adversely affect the operations, profitability and cash flows of the connected refinery. similar risks may apply to third parties who transport crude oil and refined products to, from and among our facilities. any prolonged, unplanned interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial 26 table of contents condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are also subject to the additional hazards of pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks. these hazards could result in serious personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property and equipment, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us. various hazards have adversely affected us in the past, and damages resulting from a catastrophic occurrence in the future involving us or any of our assets or operations may result in our being named as a defendant in one or more lawsuits asserting potentially substantial claims or in our being assessed potentially substantial fines by governmental authorities. we maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from operating hazards in amounts that we believe to be prudent. uninsured losses and liabilities arising from operating hazards could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. historically, we have maintained insurance coverage for physical damage and resulting business interruption to our major facilities, with significant self-insured retentions. in the future, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased substantially and could escalate further. in some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. for example, due to hurricane activity in recent years, the availability of insurance coverage for our facilities for windstorms in the gulf of mexico region has been reduced. in addition, our information technology systems and network infrastructure are subject to unauthorized access or attack, which could result in the loss of sensitive business information, systems interruptions or the disruption of our business operations. to protect against such attempts of unauthorized access or attack, we have implemented infrastructure protection technologies and disaster recovery plans. the level of protection and disaster recovery capability varies from site to site, and there can be no guarantee that such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be totally effective. we are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil and refined products. we utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil and refined products to and from our refineries. in addition to our own operational risks discussed above, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations or third-party actions. a prolonged disruption of the ability of a pipeline or vessels to transport crude oil or refined product to or from one or more of our refineries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operating results are seasonal and generally are lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year. demand for gasoline and diesel is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets due to seasonal increases in highway traffic. as a result, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters are generally lower than for those in the second and third quarters of each year. we may incur losses as a result of our forward-contract activities and derivative transactions. we currently use commodity derivative instruments, and we expect to enter into these types of transactions in the future, as well as derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and interest rate cap agreements. given the impact a failure of a broker or counterparty to perform would have on the effectiveness of these transactions, we also include broker and counterparty credit reviews as a part of our overall effectiveness assessment. to the extent the instruments we utilize to manage these exposures are not effective, we may incur losses related to the ineffective portion of the derivative transaction or costs related to moving the derivative positions to another broker or counterparty once a failure has occurred. 27 table of contents we have substantial debt obligations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed by a deterioration of our credit profile, a decrease in debt capacity and unsecured commercial credit available to us, or by factors adversely affecting the credit markets generally. on february 1, 2011, we completed the offering of $3.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of outstanding notes. at december 31, 2011, our total indebtedness for borrowed money and capital lease obligations was $3.31 billion. we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could have material adverse consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. a decrease in overall debt and commercial credit capacity, including unsecured credit extended by third-party suppliers, or a deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. during the past three years, the credit markets and the financial services industry experienced a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the united states federal government. these circumstances and events led to reduced credit availability, tighter lending standards and higher interest rates on loans. while we cannot predict the future conditions of the credit markets, future turmoil in the credit markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and cash flows, particularly if our ability to borrow money from lenders or access the capital markets to finance our operations were to be impaired. compliance with and changes in tax laws could materially and adversely affect our performance. we are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal and state income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise, withholding and property taxes. new tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations could result in increased expenditures by us for tax liabilities in the future. many of these liabilities are subject to periodic audits by taxing authorities. subsequent changes to our tax liabilities as a result of these audits could subject us to interest and penalties. litigation by private plaintiffs or government officials could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we currently are defending litigation and anticipate that we will be required to defend new litigation in the future. the subject matter of such litigation may include releases of hazardous substances from our facilities, products liability, consumer credit or privacy laws, product pricing or antitrust laws or any other laws or regulations that apply to our operations. while an adverse outcome in most litigation matters would not be 28 table of contents expected to be material to us, in some litigation the plaintiff or plaintiffs seek alleged damages involving large classes of potential litigants, and may allege damages relating to extended periods of time or other alleged facts and circumstances that could increase the amount of potential damages. attorneys general and other government officials may pursue litigation in which they seek to recover civil damages from companies on behalf of a state or its citizens for a variety of claims, including violation of consumer protection and product pricing laws or natural resources damages. we are defending litigation of that type and anticipate that we will be required to defend new litigation of that type in the future. if we are not able to successfully defend such litigation, it may result in liability to our company that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we do not have insurance covering all of these potential liabilities. in addition to substantial liability, plaintiffs in litigation may also seek injunctive relief which, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a portion of our workforce is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. approximately 30 percent of our refining employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. the contract for the hourly workers at our catlettsburg refinery was due to expire in january 2012. it has been temporarily extended while negotiations continue on a new collective bargaining agreement. the contracts for the hourly workers at our detroit, canton and texas city refineries are scheduled to expire in january 2014, january 2015 and march 2015, respectively. we cannot provide assurance that these contracts will not be renewed at an increased cost to us or that we will not experience work stoppages in the future as a result of labor disagreements. risks relating to our spinoff from marathon oil our historical consolidated financial information does not necessarily reflect what our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would have been as an independent public company during the periods presented. the historical consolidated financial information we have included in this annual report on form 10-k does not necessarily reflect what our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would have been as an independent public company during the periods prior to the spinoff from marathon oil. this is primarily a result of the following factors: our historical consolidated financial results for periods prior to the spinoff reflect allocations of expenses for services historically provided by marathon oil, and those allocations may be significantly lower than the comparable expenses we would have incurred as an independent company; our working capital requirements historically were satisfied as part of marathon oil corporate-wide cash management programs, and our cost of debt and other capital may be significantly different from that reflected in our historical consolidated financial statements; the historical consolidated financial information may not fully reflect the increased costs associated with being an independent public company, including significant changes that occurred in our cost structure, management, financing arrangements and business operations as a result of our spinoff from marathon oil, including all the costs related to being an independent public company; and the historical consolidated financial information may not fully reflect the effects of certain liabilities that were assumed by our company. 29 table of contents we incurred significant costs to create the corporate infrastructure necessary to operate as an independent public company, and we will continue to experience increased ongoing costs in connection with being an independent public company. marathon oil performed many important corporate infrastructure functions for us prior to the spinoff on a cost allocation basis spread among all of the marathon oil businesses. these functions included some information technology, treasury, tax administration, accounting, financial reporting, human resources services, incentive compensation, legal and other services. with completion of the spinoff, we established our own corporate infrastructure, which resulted in the incurrence of significant costs. the ongoing costs associated with maintaining a corporate infrastructure as an independent public company and performing these services may significantly exceed the amounts reflected in our historical consolidated financial statements. we are subject to continuing contingent liabilities of marathon oil following the spinoff. although the spinoff has occurred, there are several significant areas where liabilities of marathon oil may become our obligations. for example, under the internal revenue code of 1986 (the code ) and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the spinoff is jointly and severally liable for the federal income tax liability of the entire marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. in connection with the spinoff, we entered into a tax sharing agreement with marathon oil that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group between us and marathon oil. however, if marathon oil is unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes. other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans as well as other contingent liabilities. if the spinoff were ultimately determined not to qualify as a tax-free transaction, marathon oil and its stockholders could be subject to material amounts of taxes and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify marathon oil for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement. marathon oil received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (the irs ), to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of shares of mpc common stock in the spinoff qualifies as tax-free to marathon oil, us and marathon oil stockholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a) and related provisions of the code. if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then marathon oil would not be able to continue to rely on the ruling. furthermore, the irs does not rule on whether a distribution such as the spinoff satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code. rather, the private letter ruling is based on representations by marathon oil that those requirements have been satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. we are not aware of any facts or circumstances that would cause the assumptions or representations that were relied on in the private letter ruling to be inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect. if, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling, the spinoff were determined not to qualify under section 355 of the code, marathon oil would be subject to tax as if it had sold its shares of common stock of our company in a taxable sale for their fair market value and would recognize taxable gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of such shares over its tax basis in such shares. with respect to taxes and other liabilities that could be imposed on marathon oil in connection with the spinoff (and certain related transactions) as a result of a final determination that is inconsistent with the anticipated tax consequences, as set forth in the private letter ruling, under the terms of the tax sharing agreement we entered into with marathon oil, we will be liable to marathon oil for any such taxes or liabilities attributable to actions taken by or with respect to us, any of our affiliates, or any person that, after the spinoff, is our affiliate. we may 30 table of contents be similarly liable if we breach specified representations or covenants set forth in the tax sharing agreement. if we are required to indemnify marathon oil for taxes incurred as a result of the spinoff (or certain related transactions) being taxable to marathon oil, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. potential liabilities associated with certain assumed obligations under the tax sharing agreement cannot be precisely quantified at this time. under the tax sharing agreement we entered into with marathon oil, following the spinoff we are responsible generally for all taxes attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries, whether accruing before, on or after the spinoff. we also agreed to be responsible for, and indemnify marathon oil with respect to, all taxes arising as a result of the spinoff (or certain internal restructuring transactions) failing to qualify as transactions under sections 368(a) and 355 of the code for u.s. federal income tax purposes (which could result, for example, from a merger or other transaction involving an acquisition of our stock) to the extent such tax liability arises as a result of any breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or other obligation by us or certain affiliates made in connection with the issuance of the private letter ruling relating to the spinoff or in the tax sharing agreement. as described above, such tax liability would be calculated as though marathon oil (or its affiliate) had sold its shares of common stock of our company in a taxable sale for their fair market value, and marathon oil (or its affiliate) would recognize taxable gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of such shares over its tax basis in such shares. in addition, we agreed to indemnify marathon oil for specified tax-related liabilities associated with the 2005 transaction in which we acquired the minority interest in our refining joint venture from ashland inc. our indemnification obligations to marathon oil and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited in amount or subject to any cap. if we are required to indemnify marathon oil and its subsidiaries and their respective officers and directors under the circumstances set forth in the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. at this time, we cannot precisely quantify the amount of these liabilities that have been assumed pursuant to the tax sharing agreement and there can be no assurances as to their final amounts. the tax liabilities described in this paragraph could have a material adverse effect on our company. we may not be able to engage in desirable strategic or capital raising transactions for two years following the spinoff. in addition, under some circumstances, we could be liable for any adverse tax consequences resulting from engaging in significant strategic or capital raising transactions. even if the spinoff status as a tax-free distribution under section 355 of the code remains intact, the spinoff may result in significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities to marathon oil under applicable provisions of the code if 50% or more of marathon oil stock or our stock (in each case, by vote or value) is treated as having been acquired, directly or indirectly, by one or more persons as part of a plan (or series of related transactions) that includes the spinoff. under those provisions, any acquisitions of marathon oil stock or our stock (or similar acquisitions), or any understanding, arrangement or substantial negotiations regarding an acquisition of marathon oil stock or our stock (or similar acquisitions), within two years before or after the spinoff are subject to special scrutiny. the process for determining whether an acquisition triggering those provisions has occurred is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case. if a direct or indirect acquisition of marathon oil stock or our stock resulted in a change in control as contemplated by those provisions, marathon oil (but not its stockholders) would recognize taxable gain. under the tax sharing agreement, there are restrictions on our ability to take actions that could cause the separation to fail to qualify as a tax-free distribution, and we are required to indemnify marathon oil against any such tax liabilities attributable to actions taken by or with respect to us or any of our affiliates, or any person that, after the spinoff, is our affiliate. we may be similarly liable if we breach certain other representations or covenants set forth in the tax sharing agreement. we are also subject to restrictions on our ability to issue shares of our stock without satisfying certain conditions within the tax sharing agreement. as a result of the foregoing, we may be unable to engage in strategic or capital raising transactions that our stockholders might consider favorable, or to structure potential transactions in the manner most favorable to us, without adverse tax consequences, if at all. 31 table of contents potential indemnification liabilities to marathon oil pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in connection with the spinoff, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with marathon oil that provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions that were required to effect the spinoff, certain conditions to the spinoff and provisions governing the relationship between our company and marathon oil with respect to and resulting from the spinoff. among other things, the separation and distribution agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our downstream business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the spinoff, as well as those obligations of marathon oil assumed by us pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement. our obligations to indemnify marathon oil under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement could subject us to substantial liabilities. in connection with our separation from marathon oil, marathon oil will indemnify us for certain liabilities. however, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that marathon oil ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, marathon oil agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. however, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that marathon oil agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from marathon oil will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that marathon oil will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from marathon oil any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. if marathon oil is unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations, the underlying liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, marathon oil insurers may deny coverage to us for liabilities associated with occurrences prior to the spinoff. even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from such insurance providers, we may be required to temporarily bear such denial of coverage. risks relating to ownership of our common stock the market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile and fluctuate significantly. the market price and trading volume of our common stock could fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: fluctuations in our quarterly or annual earnings results or those of other companies in our industry; failures of our operating results to meet the estimates of securities analysts or the expectations of our stockholders or changes by securities analysts in their estimates of our future earnings; announcements by us or our customers, suppliers, investors or competitors; changes in laws or regulations which adversely affect our industry or us; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; general economic, industry and stock market conditions; future sales of our common stock by our stockholders; 32 table of contents future issuances of our common stock by us; and the other factors described in item 1a. risk factors. provisions in our corporate documents and delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even if that change may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. the existence of some provisions within our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and delaware law generally, could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us that a stockholder may consider favorable. these include provisions: providing that our board of directors fixes the number of members of the board; providing for the division of our board of directors into three classes with staggered terms; providing that only our board may fill board vacancies; limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring stockholder action to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; establishing supermajority vote requirements for certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and stockholder proposals for amendments to our amended and restated bylaws; providing that our directors may only be removed for cause; authorizing a large number of shares of common stock that are not yet issued, which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of our management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us; and authorizing the issuance of blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt. in addition, we are subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board of directors, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for shares of our common stock. we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. however, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of us and our stockholders. 33 table of contents provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation that limit ownership of our capital stock by non-u.s. citizens may adversely affect the liquidity of our capital stock. to facilitate compliance with the maritime laws, our restated certificate of incorporation limits the aggregate percentage ownership by non-u.s. citizens of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock to 23% of the outstanding shares. we may prohibit transfers that would cause ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock by non-u.s. citizens to exceed 23%. our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to effect any and all measures necessary or desirable to monitor and limit foreign ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock. these limitations could have an adverse impact on the liquidity of the market for our common stock if holders are unable to transfer shares to non-u.s. citizens due to the limitations on ownership by non-u.s. citizens. any such limitation on the liquidity of the market for our common stock could adversely impact the market price of our common stock. we may issue preferred stock with terms that could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. the terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. for example, we could grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock. 34 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, includes forward-looking statements. you can identify our forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, goal, intend, plan, predict, project, seek, target, could, may, should or would or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. in accordance with safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to, or statements that are subject to risks, contingencies or uncertainties that relate to: future levels of revenues, refining and marketing gross margins, retail gasoline and distillate gross margins, merchandise margins, income from operations, net income or earnings per share; anticipated volumes of feedstock, throughput, sales or shipments of refined products; anticipated levels of regional, national and worldwide prices of crude oil and refined products; anticipated levels of crude oil and refined product inventories; future levels of capital, environmental or maintenance expenditures, general and administrative and other expenses; the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital or maintenance projects; expectations regarding the acquisition or divestiture of assets; the effect of restructuring or reorganization of business components; the potential effects of judicial or other proceedings on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; and the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, or federal, foreign, state or local regulatory authorities, or plaintiffs in litigation. we have based our forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and our company. we caution that these statements are not guarantees of future performance and you should not rely unduly on them, as they involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that we cannot predict. in addition, we have based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. while our management considers these assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. accordingly, our actual results may differ materially from the future performance that we have expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements. differences between actual results and any future performance suggested in our forward-looking statements could result from a variety of factors, including the following: changes in general economic, market or business conditions; domestic and foreign supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks; the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to agree on and to influence crude oil price and production controls; 1 table of contents domestic and foreign supplies of refined products such as gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, home heating oil and petrochemicals; foreign imports of refined products; refining industry overcapacity or undercapacity; changes in the cost or availability of third-party vessels, pipelines and other means of transportation for crude oil, feedstocks and refined products; the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels and alternative-fuel vehicles and laws mandating such fuels or vehicles; fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products, including seasonal fluctuations; political and economic conditions in nations that consume refined products, including the united states, and in crude oil producing regions, including the middle east, africa and south america; actions taken by our competitors, including pricing adjustments, expansion of retail activities, and the expansion and retirement of refining capacity in response to market conditions; changes in fuel and utility costs for our facilities; delay of, cancellation of or failure to implement planned capital projects and realize the benefits projected for such projects, or cost overruns associated with such projects; accidents or other unscheduled shutdowns affecting our refineries, machinery, pipelines or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers; unusual weather conditions and natural disasters, which can unforeseeably affect the price or availability of crude oil and other feedstocks and refined products; acts of war, terrorism or civil unrest that could impair our ability to produce or transport refined products or receive feedstocks; legislative or regulatory action, which may adversely affect our business or operations; rulings, judgments or settlements in litigation or other legal, tax or regulatory matters, including unexpected environmental remediation costs, in excess of any reserves or insurance coverage; labor and material shortages; the maintenance of satisfactory relationships with labor unions and joint venture partners; the ability and willingness of parties with whom we have material relationships to perform their obligations to us; changes in the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and trade credit, changes in the availability of unsecured credit and changes affecting the credit markets generally; and the other factors described item 1a. risk factors. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements except to the extent required by applicable law. 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview marathon petroleum corporation ( mpc ) was incorporated in delaware on november 9, 2009 in connection with an internal restructuring of marathon oil corporation ( marathon oil ). on may 25, 2011, the marathon oil board of directors approved the spinoff of its refining, marketing &amp; transportation business ( rm&amp;t business ) into an independent, publicly traded company, mpc, through the distribution of mpc common stock to the stockholders of marathon oil common stock. in accordance with a separation and distribution agreement between marathon oil and mpc, the distribution of mpc common stock was made on june 30, 2011, with marathon oil stockholders receiving one share of mpc common stock for every two shares of marathon oil common stock held (the spinoff ). marathon oil received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of shares of mpc common stock in the spinoff qualifies as tax-free to marathon oil, mpc and marathon oil stockholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a) and related provisions of the internal revenue code of 1986. following the spinoff, marathon oil retained no ownership interest in mpc, and each company had separate public ownership, boards of directors and management. a registration statement on form 10, as amended through the time of its effectiveness, describing the spinoff was filed by mpc with the securities and exchange commission and was declared effective on june 6, 2011. all subsidiaries and equity method investments not contributed by marathon oil to mpc remained with marathon oil. on july 1, 2011, our common stock began trading regular-way on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) under the ticker symbol mpc . we are one of the largest petroleum product refiners, marketers and transporters in the united states. our operations consist of three business segments: refining &amp; marketing refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our six refineries in the gulf coast and midwest regions of the united states, purchases ethanol and refined products for resale and distributes refined products through various means, including barges, terminals and trucks that we own or operate. we sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, to buyers on the spot market, to our speedway business segment and to dealers and jobbers who operate marathon &reg; retail outlets; speedway sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market in the midwest, primarily through speedway &reg; convenience stores; and pipeline transportation transports crude oil and other feedstocks to our refineries and other locations, delivers refined products to wholesale and retail market areas and includes, among other transportation-related assets, a majority interest in loop llc, which is the owner and operator of the only u.s. deepwater oil port. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk. capital resources as of december 31, 2011 our liquidity totaled $6.08 billion consisting of: (in millions) december 31, 2011 cash and cash equivalents $ 3,079 revolving credit facility 2,000 trade receivables securitization facility 1,000 total $ 6,079 because of the alternatives available to us, including internally generated cash flow and access to capital markets, we believe that our short-term and long-term liquidity is adequate to fund not only our current operations, but also our near-term and long-term funding requirements, including capital spending programs, the repurchase of shares of our common stock, dividend payments, defined benefit plan contributions, repayment of debt maturities and other amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies. on february 1, 2011, we completed a private placement of $3.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior notes (collectively, the notes ), consisting of $750 million aggregate principal amount of our 3 1 / 2 % senior notes due march 1, 2016, $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of our 5 1/8% senior notes due march 1, 2021 and $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of our 6 1 / 2 % senior notes due march 1, 2041. on november 18, 2011 we completed a registered exchange offer for the notes. interest on each series of notes is payable semi-annually on march 1 and september 1 of each year. 55 table of contents the indenture governing the notes includes covenants that, among other things, limit our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to incur debt secured by mortgages and other liens with respect to principal properties, enter into sale and leaseback transactions with respect to principal properties and merge or consolidate with any other entity or sell or convey all or substantially all of our assets. these covenants are subject to a number of important qualifications and limitations as set forth in the indenture. in addition, if we experience a change of control repurchase event (as defined in the indenture) with respect to a series of notes, we will be required, unless we have exercised our right to redeem the notes of such series, to offer to purchase the notes of such series at a purchase price equal to 101 percent of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. we entered into a four-year revolving credit agreement dated march 11, 2011, as amended and effective july 1, 2011 (the credit agreement ) with a syndicate of lenders, including jpmorgan chase bank, national association, as administrative agent. under the credit agreement, we have an initial borrowing capacity of up to $2.0 billion. we have the right to seek an increase of the total amount available under the credit agreement to $2.5 billion, subject to certain conditions. we may obtain up to $1.5 billion of letters of credit and up to $100 million of swingline loans under the credit agreement. we may, subject to certain conditions, request that the term of the credit agreement be extended for up to two additional one-year periods. each such extension would be subject to the approval of lenders holding greater than 50 percent of the commitments then outstanding, and the commitment of any lender that does not consent to an extension of the maturity date will be terminated on the then-effective maturity date. at december 31, 2011, we had no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding under this credit agreement. the credit agreement contains covenants that we consider usual and customary for an agreement of this type, including a maximum ratio of net consolidated indebtedness as of the end of each fiscal quarter to consolidated ebitda (as defined in the credit agreement) for each consecutive four fiscal quarter period of 3.0 to 1.0 and a minimum ratio of consolidated ebitda to consolidated interest expense (as defined in the credit agreement) for each consecutive four fiscal quarter period of 3.5 to 1.0. as of december 31, 2011, we were in compliance with these debt covenants with a ratio of net consolidated indebtedness to consolidated ebitda (as defined in the credit agreement) of 0.6 to 1.0 and a ratio of consolidated ebitda to consolidated interest expense (as defined in the credit agreement) of 78.4 to 1.0. the credit agreement includes limitations on indebtedness of our subsidiaries, other than subsidiaries that guarantee our obligations under the credit agreement. borrowings of revolving loans under the credit agreement bear interest, at our option, at either (i) the sum of the adjusted libo rate (as defined in the credit agreement), plus a margin ranging between 1.75 percent to 3.00 percent, depending on our credit ratings, or (ii) the sum of the alternate base rate (as defined in the credit agreement), plus a margin ranging between 0.75 percent to 2.00 percent, depending on our credit ratings. the credit agreement also provides for customary fees, including administrative agent fees, commitment fees of 0.30 percent of the unused portion, fees in respect of letters of credit and other fees. on july 1, 2011, we entered into a three-year trade receivables securitization facility with a syndicate group of committed purchasers, conduit purchasers and letter of credit issuers arranged by j.p. morgan securities llc for an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $1.0 billion. the facility involves one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, marathon petroleum company lp ( mpc lp ), selling or contributing on an on-going basis all of its trade receivables (other than receivables arising in connection with the extension of credit under proprietary credit card services), together with all related security and interests in the proceeds thereof, without recourse, to another wholly owned, bankruptcy-remote, subsidiary, mpc trade receivables company llc ( trc ) in exchange for a combination of cash, equity or a subordinated note issued by trc to mpc lp. trc, in turn, has the ability to sell undivided percentage ownership interests in qualifying trade receivables, together with all related security and interests in the proceeds thereof, without recourse, to certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and/or financial institutions in exchange for cash proceeds. effective october 1, 2011, we amended and restated the trade receivables securitization facility to, among other things, include trade receivables originated by our wholly owned subsidiary, marathon petroleum trading canada llc ( mptc ). 56 table of contents to the extent that trc retains an ownership interest in the receivables it has purchased or received from mpc lp or mptc, such interest will be included in our consolidated financial statements solely as a result of the consolidation of the financial statements of trc with those of mpc. the receivables sold or contributed to trc are available first and foremost to satisfy claims of the creditors of trc and are not available to satisfy the claims of creditors of mpc lp, mptc or mpc. proceeds from the sale of undivided percentage ownership interests in qualifying receivables under this facility will be reflected as debt on our consolidated balance sheet. we will remain responsible for servicing the receivables sold to third-party entities and financial institutions and will pay certain fees related to our sale of receivables under this facility. at december 31, 2011, we had no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding under this facility. the facility includes representations and covenants that we consider usual and customary for arrangements of this type. trade receivables are subject to customary criteria, limits and reserves before being deemed to qualify for sale by trc pursuant to the facility. in addition, further purchases of qualified trade receivables under the facility are subject to termination upon the occurrence of certain amortization events that we consider usual and customary for an arrangement of this type. as of december 31, 2011, the credit ratings on our senior unsecured debt were at or above investment grade level as follows: rating agency rating moody baa2 (stable outlook) standard &amp; poor bbb (stable outlook) the ratings reflect the respective views of the rating agencies. although it is our intention to maintain a credit profile that supports an investment grade rating, there is no assurance that these ratings will continue for any given period of time. the ratings may be revised or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies if, in their respective judgments, circumstances so warrant. neither our credit agreement nor our trade receivables securitization facility contains credit rating triggers that would result in the acceleration of interest, principal or other payments in the event that our credit ratings are downgraded. however, any downgrades of our senior unsecured debt to below investment grade ratings would increase the applicable interest rates, yields and other fees payable under our revolving credit facility and trade receivables securitization facility. in addition, a downgrade of our senior unsecured debt rating to below investment grade levels could, under certain circumstances, decrease the amount of trade receivables that are eligible to be sold under our trade receivables securitization facility. 57 table of contents debt-to-capital ratios our cash-adjusted debt-to-capital ratio (total debt-minus-cash to total debt-plus-stockholders equity-minus-cash) was 2 percent at december 31, 2011, compared to 16 percent at june 30, 2011, when we became a stand-alone company. our debt-to-total capital ratio (total debt to total debt-plus-stockholders equity) was 26 percent at december 31, 2011, compared to 27 percent at june 30, 2011. (in millions) december 31, 2011 june 30, 2011 long-term debt due within one year $ 15 $ 12 long-term debt 3,292 3,262 total debt $ 3,307 $ 3,274 cash and cash equivalents $ 3,079 $ 1,622 stockholders equity 9,505 8,977 calculation of cash-adjusted debt-to-capital ratio: total debt $ 3,307 $ 3,274 minus cash 3,079 1,622 total debt minus cash $ 228 $ 1,652 total debt $ 3,307 $ 3,274 plus stockholders equity 9,505 8,977 minus cash 3,079 1,622 total debt plus stockholders equity minus cash $ 9,733 $ 10,629 cash-adjusted debt-to-capital ratio 2% 16% calculation of debt-to-total capital ratio: total debt $ 3,307 $ 3,274 plus stockholders equity 9,505 8,977 total debt plus stockholders equity $ 12,812 $ 12,251 debt-to-total capital ratio 26% 27% capital requirements we have a capital and investment budget of $1.42 billion, excluding capitalized interest, for 2012. additional details related to the 2012 capital and investment budget are discussed in the outlook section below. we plan to make contributions of approximately $240 million to our funded pension plans in 2012. dividends of 45 cents per share or $160 million were paid in 2011. on february 1, 2012, our board of directors approved a 25 cents per share dividend, payable march 12, 2012 to stockholders of record at the close of business on february 16, 2012. on february 1, 2012, we announced that our board of directors authorized a share repurchase plan, enabling us to purchase up to $2.0 billion of mpc common stock over a two-year period. we may utilize various methods to effect the repurchases, which could include open market purchases, negotiated block transactions, accelerated share repurchases ( asr ) or open market solicitations for shares. on february 3, 2012, we entered into an $850 million asr program with a major financial institution as part of this authorization. the total number of shares to be repurchased will be based generally on the volume-weighted average price of mpc common stock during the repurchase period, subject to provisions that set a minimum and maximum number of shares. under the asr, we received 9.986 million shares of mpc common stock on february 3, 2012 and expect to receive a majority of the additional shares by the end of the first quarter of 2012. as received, shares will be reflected in our treasury stock component of stockholders equity in the first quarter of 2012. the remaining shares under the asr will be 58 table of contents delivered to us over the term of the transaction, with all shares to be delivered by the end of the third quarter of 2012. the timing of repurchases, if any, outside of the asr will depend upon several factors, including market and business conditions, and such repurchases may be discontinued at any time. the above discussion includes forward-looking statements with respect to the share repurchase authorization. factors that could affect the share repurchase program and its timing include, but are not limited to business conditions, availability of liquidity, and the market price of our common stock. contractual cash obligations the table below provides aggregated information on our consolidated obligations to make future payments under existing contracts as of december 31, 2011. (in millions) total 2012 2013-2014 2015-2016 later years long-term debt (excludes interest) (a) $ 3,000 $ - $ - $ 750 $ 2,250 capital lease obligations 576 34 88 88 366 operating lease obligations 663 141 247 174 101 purchase obligations: crude oil, feedstock, refined product and ethanol contracts (b) 9,906 8,538 795 383 190 transportation and related contracts 624 129 130 100 265 contracts to acquire property, plant and equipment (c) 347 326 21 - - service and materials contracts (d) 1,304 261 345 244 454 total purchase obligations 12,181 9,254 1,291 727 909 other long-term liabilities reported in the consolidated balance sheet (e) 1,549 284 346 340 579 total contractual cash obligations $ 17,969 $ 9,713 $ 1,972 $ 2,079 $ 4,205 (a) we anticipate cash payments for interest of $159 million for 2012, $318 million for 2013-2014, $304 million for 2015-2016 and $2.22 billion for later years for a total of $3.00 billion. (b) these contracts include variable price arrangements. (c) includes obligations to advance funds to equity method investees. (d) includes contracts to purchase services such as utilities, supplies and various other maintenance and operating services. (e) primarily includes obligations for pension and other postretirement benefits including medical and life insurance, which we have estimated through 2021. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. investments in debt and equity securities we record all of our investments in debt and equity securities at fair value. our investments in related party debt securities were redeemable on any business day at a stated price which had been determined to approximate fair value. our investments in other equity securities are exchange-traded, and fair value is determined from quoted market prices. pension and other postretirement benefit obligations accounting for pension and other postretirement benefit obligations involves numerous assumptions, the most significant of which relate to the following: the discount rate for measuring the present value of future plan obligations; the expected long-term return on plan assets; the rate of future increases in compensation levels; and health care cost projections. we develop our demographics and utilize the work of third-party actuaries to assist in the measurement of these obligations. we have selected different discount rates for our funded pension plans and our unfunded retiree health care plans due to the different projected benefit payment patterns. the selected rates are compared to 65 table of contents various similar bond indexes for reasonableness. in determining the assumed discount rates, we use our third-party actuary discount rate model. this model calculates an equivalent single discount rate for the projected benefit plan cash flows using a yield curve derived from aa bond yields. the yield curve represents a series of annualized individual spot discount rates from 0.5 to 99 years. the bonds used are rated aa or higher by a recognized rating agency and only non-callable bonds are included. outlier bonds that have a yield to maturity that deviate significantly from the average yield within each maturity grouping are not included. each issue is required to have at least $250 million par value outstanding. of the assumptions used to measure the year-end obligations and estimated annual net periodic benefit cost, the discount rate has the most significant effect on the periodic benefit cost reported for the plans. decreasing the discount rates of 4.30 percent for our pension plans and 4.65 percent for our other postretirement benefit plans by 0.25 would increase pension obligations and other postretirement benefit plan obligations by $131 million and $21 million, respectively, and would increase defined benefit pension expense and other postretirement benefit plan expense by $11 million and $1 million, respectively. the asset rate of return assumption considers the asset mix of the plans (currently targeted at approximately 75 percent equity securities and 25 percent fixed income securities for the funded pension plans), past performance and other factors. certain components of the asset mix are modeled with various assumptions regarding inflation and returns. our long term asset rate of return assumption is compared to those of other companies and to historical returns for reasonableness. after evaluating activity in the capital markets, we reduced the asset rate of return from 8.50 percent to 7.50 percent effective for 2012 defined benefit pension expense. decreasing the 7.50 percent asset rate of return assumption by 0.25 would increase our defined benefit pension expense by $4 million. compensation change assumptions are based on historical experience, anticipated future management actions and demographics of the benefit plans. health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook and an assessment of likely long-term trends. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk general we are exposed to market risks related to the volatility of crude oil and refined product prices. we employ various strategies, including the use of commodity derivative instruments, to manage the risks related to these price fluctuations. we are also exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we use financial derivative instruments to manage the risks related to interest rate fluctuations. we are at risk for changes in fair value of all of our derivative instruments; however, such risk should be mitigated by price or rate changes related to the underlying commodity or financial transaction. we believe that our use of derivative instruments, along with our risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose us to material adverse consequences. while the use of derivative instruments could materially affect our results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods, we believe that the use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity. seerisk factors 27 risk factors, item 3. legal proceedings, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, includes forward-looking statements. you can identify our forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, goal, intend, plan, predict, project, seek, target, could, may, should or would or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. in accordance with safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to, or statements that are subject to risks, contingencies or uncertainties that relate to: future levels of revenues, refining and marketing gross margins, retail gasoline and distillate gross margins, merchandise margins, income from operations, net income or earnings per share; anticipated volumes of feedstock, throughput, sales or shipments of refined products; anticipated levels of regional, national and worldwide prices of crude oil and refined products; anticipated levels of crude oil and refined product inventories; future levels of capital, environmental or maintenance expenditures, general and administrative and other expenses; the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital or maintenance projects; expectations regarding the acquisition or divestiture of assets; our share repurchase program, including the timing and amounts of any common stock repurchases; the effect of restructuring or reorganization of business components; the potential effects of judicial or other proceedings on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; and the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, or federal, foreign, state or local regulatory authorities, or plaintiffs in litigation. we have based our forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and our company. we caution that these statements are not guarantees of future performance and you should not rely unduly on them, as they involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that we cannot predict. in addition, we have based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. while our management considers these assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. accordingly, our actual results may differ materially from the future performance that we have expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements. differences between actual results and any future performance suggested in our forward-looking statements could result from a variety of factors, including the following: changes in general economic, market or business conditions; domestic and foreign supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks; the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to agree on and to influence crude oil price and production controls; 1 table of contents domestic and foreign supplies of refined products such as gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, home heating oil and petrochemicals; foreign imports of refined products; refining industry overcapacity or under capacity; changes in the cost or availability of third-party vessels, pipelines and other means of transportation for crude oil, feedstocks and refined products; the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels and alternative-fuel vehicles and laws mandating such fuels or vehicles; fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products, including seasonal fluctuations; political and economic conditions in nations that consume refined products, including the united states, and in crude oil producing regions, including the middle east, africa, canada and south america; actions taken by our competitors, including pricing adjustments, expansion of retail activities, and the expansion and retirement of refining capacity in response to market conditions; changes in fuel and utility costs for our facilities; failure to realize the benefits projected for capital projects, or cost overruns associated with such projects; the ability to successfully implement new assets and growth opportunities; accidents or other unscheduled shutdowns affecting our refineries, machinery, pipelines or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers; unusual weather conditions and natural disasters, which can unforeseeably affect the price or availability of crude oil and other feedstocks and refined products; acts of war, terrorism or civil unrest that could impair our ability to produce or transport refined products or receive feedstocks; legislative or regulatory action, which may adversely affect our business or operations; rulings, judgments or settlements and related expenses in litigation or other legal, tax or regulatory matters, including unexpected environmental remediation costs, in excess of any reserves or insurance coverage; labor and material shortages; the maintenance of satisfactory relationships with labor unions and joint venture partners; the ability and willingness of parties with whom we have material relationships to perform their obligations to us; the market price of our common stock and its impact on our share repurchase program; changes in the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and trade credit, changes in the availability of unsecured credit and changes affecting the credit markets generally; and the other factors described in item 1a. risk factors. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements except to the extent required by applicable law. 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview marathon petroleum corporation ( mpc ) was incorporated in delaware on november 9, 2009 in connection with an internal restructuring of marathon oil corporation ( marathon oil ). on may 25, 2011, the marathon oil board of directors approved the spinoff of its refining, marketing &amp; transportation business ( rm&amp;t business ) into an independent, publicly traded company, mpc, through the distribution of mpc common stock to the stockholders of marathon oil common stock. in accordance with a separation and distribution agreement between marathon oil and mpc, the distribution of mpc common stock was made on june 30, 2011, with marathon oil stockholders receiving one share of mpc common stock for every two shares of marathon oil common stock held (the spinoff ). following the spinoff, marathon oil retained no ownership interest in mpc, and each company had separate public ownership, boards of directors and management. all subsidiaries and equity method investments not contributed by marathon oil to mpc remained with marathon oil and, together with marathon oil, are referred to as the marathon oil companies. on july 1, 2011, our common stock began trading regular-way on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) under the ticker symbol mpc . we are one of the largest independent petroleum product refiners, marketers and transporters in the united states. our operations consist of three business segments: refining &amp; marketing refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our seven refineries in the gulf coast and midwest regions of the united states (including the recently acquired galveston bay refinery), purchases ethanol and refined products for resale and distributes refined products through various means, including barges, terminals and trucks that we own or operate. we sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, to buyers on the spot market, to our speedway business segment and to dealers and jobbers who operate marathon &reg; retail outlets; speedway sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market in the midwest, primarily through speedway &reg; convenience stores; and pipeline transportation transports crude oil and other feedstocks to our refineries and other locations, delivers refined products to wholesale and retail market areas and includes the aggregated operations of mplx lp and mpc retained pipeline assets and investments. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 11 for operating segment and geographic financial information, which is incorporated herein by reference. on february 1, 2013, we acquired from bp products north america inc. and bp pipelines (north america) inc. (collectively, bp ) the 451,000 barrel per calendar day refinery in texas city, texas, three intrastate natural gas liquid pipelines originating at the refinery, an allocation of bp colonial pipeline company shipper history, four light product terminals, branded-jobber marketing contract assignments for the supply of approximately 1,200 branded sites and a 1,040 megawatt electric cogeneration facility. we refer to these assets as the galveston bay refinery and related assets . the operating statistics included in this section do not include these assets. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 26 for additional information on the acquisition of these assets. in 2012, we formed mplx lp ( mplx ), a master limited partnership, to own, operate, develop and acquire pipelines and other midstream assets related to the transportation and storage of crude oil, refined products and other hydrocarbon-based products. on october 31, 2012, mplx completed its initial public offering of 19,895,000 common units, which represented the sale by us of a 26.4 percent interest in mplx. we own a 73.6 3 table of contents percent interest in mplx, including the general partner interest, and we consolidate this entity for financial reporting purposes since we have a controlling financial interest. headquartered in findlay, ohio, mplx initial assets consist of a 51 percent general partner interest in mplx pipe line holdings lp ( pipe line holdings ), which owns a network of common carrier crude oil and product pipeline systems and associated storage assets in the midwest and gulf coast regions of the united states, and a 100 percent interest in a butane storage cavern in west virginia. we own the remaining 49 percent limited partner interest in pipe line holdings. the operating statistics in this section include 100 percent of these assets for all time periods presented. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 4 for additional information on mplx initial public offering. on december 1, 2010, we completed the sale of most of our minnesota assets. these assets included the 74,000 barrel per calendar day st. paul park refinery and associated terminals, 166 convenience stores primarily branded superamerica &reg; (including six stores in wisconsin) along with the supermom &reg; bakery (a baked goods and sandwich supply operation) and certain associated trademarks, superamerica franchising llc, interests in pipeline assets in minnesota and associated inventories. we refer to these assets as the minnesota assets. the operating statistics included in this section reflect the exclusion of these assets, except as otherwise indicated. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 7 for additional information on the disposition of these assets. our competitive strengths high quality asset base we believe we are the largest crude oil refiner in the midwest and the fourth largest in the united states based on crude oil refining capacity. we own a seven-plant refinery network, including our recently acquired galveston bay refinery, with approximately 1.7 million barrels per calendar day ( mmbpcd ) of crude oil throughput capacity. our refineries process a wide range of crude oils, including heavy and sour crude oils, which can generally be purchased at a discount to sweet crude, and produce transportation fuels such as gasoline and distillates, specialty chemicals and other refined products. 4 table of contents strategic location the geographic locations of our refineries and our extensive midstream distribution system provide us with strategic advantages. located in petroleum administration for defense district ( padd ) ii and padd iii, which consist of states in the midwest and the gulf coast regions of the united states, our refineries have the ability to procure crude oil from a variety of supply sources, including domestic, canadian and other foreign sources, which provides us with flexibility to optimize crude supply costs. for example, geographic proximity to canadian crude oil supply sources allows our midwest refineries to incur lower transportation costs than competitors transporting canadian crude oil to the gulf coast for refining. our refinery locations and midstream distribution system also allow us to access export markets and to serve a broad range of key end-user markets across the united states quickly and cost-effectively. * as of december 31, 2012. excludes the galveston bay refinery and related assets. attractive growth opportunities through internal projects we believe we have attractive growth opportunities through internal capital projects. in 2012, we completed a $2.2 billion (excluding capitalized interest) heavy oil upgrading and expansion project at our detroit, michigan refinery. the project enables the refinery to process additional heavy, sour crude oils, including canadian bitumen blends, which have traded at a significant discount to light sweet crude oil, and increased the refinery total crude oil refining capacity by approximately 14 thousand barrels per calendar day ( mbpcd ) to 120 mbpcd. 5 table of contents we plan to evaluate projects that will extract additional value from this major investment at detroit. at our garyville, louisiana refinery, we have initiated projects that we expect will increase our ultra-low-sulfur diesel ( ulsd ) production and expand our gasoline and distillates export capabilities. we also have projects underway at our robinson, illinois refinery to increase distillate yields and at our catlettsburg, kentucky refinery to improve gas oil recovery and reduce purchased feedstock volumes, thus reducing our feedstock costs. we are also increasing our capacity to process condensate from the utica shale region at our canton, ohio and catlettsburg refineries. acquisition of galveston bay refinery and related assets through our february 1, 2013 acquisition of the galveston bay refinery and related assets, we added 451 mbpcd of crude oil refining capacity and have diversified and further balanced our network of refining assets. our refining capacity is now balanced between three market areas, with 646 mbpcd of capacity in the midwest, 531 mbpcd in texas and 522 mbpcd in louisiana. this acquisition provides us with the opportunity to capture synergies across our existing gulf coast operations, increases our refining capacity for specialty chemicals and is anticipated to enhance our ability to sell refined products into export markets. extensive midstream distribution networks we believe the relative scale of our transportation and distribution assets and operations distinguishes us from other refining and marketing companies. we currently own, lease or have ownership interests in approximately 8,300 miles of crude oil and products pipelines, including the approximate 100 miles of natural gas liquid pipelines recently acquired with the galveston bay refinery and related assets. through our ownership interests in mplx and pipe line holdings, we are one of the largest petroleum pipeline companies in the united states on the basis of total volume delivered. we also own one of the largest private domestic fleets of inland petroleum product barges and one of the largest terminal operations in the united states, as well as trucking and rail assets. we operate this system in coordination with our refining and marketing network, which enables us to optimize feedstock and raw material supplies and refined product distribution, and further allows for important economies of scale across our system. general partner and sponsor of mplx our investment in mplx provides us an efficient vehicle to invest in organic projects and pursue acquisitions of midstream assets. mplx strong liquidity and borrowing capacity provides us a strong foundation to execute our strategy for growing our midstream logistics business. our role as the general partner allows us to maintain strategic control of the assets so we can continue to optimize our refinery feedstock and distribution networks. competitively positioned marketing operations we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers within our market area. we have two strong retail brands: speedway &reg; and marathon &reg; . we believe our 1,464 speedway &reg; convenience stores, which we operate through a wholly owned subsidiary, speedway llc, comprise the fourth largest chain of company-owned and operated retail gasoline and convenience stores in the united states. the marathon brand is an established motor fuel brand in the midwest and southeast regions of the united states, and was available through approximately 5,000 retail outlets operated by jobbers and dealers in 17 states as of december 31, 2012. in addition, as part of the acquisition of the galveston bay refinery and related assets, we were assigned retail marketing contracts for approximately 1,200 branded retail outlets that we are in the process of converting to the marathon brand. we believe our distribution system allows us to maximize the sales value of our products and minimize cost. 6 table of contents established track record of profitability and diversified income stream we have demonstrated an ability to achieve positive financial results throughout all stages of the refining cycle. we believe our business mix and strategies position us well to continue to achieve competitive financial results. as shown in the following chart, income from operations attributable to the speedway and pipeline transportation segments is less sensitive to business cycles while our refining &amp; marketing segment enables us to generate significant income and cash flow when market conditions are more favorable. marathon petroleum corporation segment income from operations strong financial position as of december 31, 2012, we had $4.86 billion in cash and cash equivalents and $3.0 billion in unused committed credit facilities, excluding mplx credit facility. we also had $3.36 billion of debt at year-end, which represented only 22 percent of our total capitalization. this combination of strong liquidity and manageable leverage allows us to fund our growth projects and to pursue our business strategies. our business strategies achieve top-tier safety and environmental performance we remain committed to operating our assets in a safe and reliable manner and targeting continuous improvement in our safety record across all of our operations. we have a history of safe and reliable operations, which was demonstrated with record employee and contractor safety performance across all our operations in 2012, including a world class safety record for the heavy oil upgrading and expansion project at our detroit refinery. in addition, we remain committed to environmental stewardship by continuing to improve the efficiency of our operations while proactively meeting our regulatory requirements. grow enterprise value we intend to grow our share price through a combination of earnings growth and return of capital to shareholders in the form of strong and growing dividends and sustained share repurchases. we have increased our quarterly dividend by 75 percent since becoming a stand-alone company in june 2011 and our board of directors has authorized share repurchases totaling $4.0 billion. we entered into two accelerated share repurchase ( asr ) programs for a total of $1.35 billion, through which we repurchased approximately 8 percent of our outstanding common shares in 2012. after the effects of these asr programs, $2.65 billion of the $4.0 billion total authorization is available for future repurchases. 7 table of contents expand midstream business through mplx we expect there will be significant investment in infrastructure to connect growing north american crude oil production with existing refining assets and to move refined products to wholesale and retail marketing customers. we intend to aggressively participate in this infrastructure build out and mplx will be the entity through which we expect to grow our midstream business. we intend to increase revenue on the mplx network of pipeline systems through higher utilization of existing assets, by capitalizing on organic investment opportunities that may arise from the growth of mpc operations and from increased third-party activity in mplx areas of operations. through mplx, we also plan to pursue acquisitions of midstream assets both within our existing geographic footprint and in new areas. deliver top quartile refining performance our refineries are well positioned to benefit from the growing crude oil and condensate production in north america, including the bakken, eagle ford and utica shale regions, along with the canadian oil sands. we are also well positioned to export distillates and other products as the demand continues to grow. we intend to increase our earnings in the refining &amp; marketing segment through organic investments and selective acquisitions, while maintaining financial discipline. for example, we recently completed a $2.2 billion investment (excluding capitalized interest) to upgrade and expand our detroit refinery. this investment significantly expands our ability to process heavy crude oil at the detroit refinery from about 20 mbpcd to 100 mbpcd. in february 2013, we closed on the 451 mbpcd galveston bay refinery. this acquisition increases our crude oil refining capacity by approximately 36 percent, diversifies the footprint of our refining assets, provides us with the opportunity to increase our export sales, and significantly increases our participation in the chemicals value chain. we will continue to evaluate opportunities to expand our existing asset base, with an emphasis on increasing distillates production and export capabilities. increase assured sales volumes at our marathon brand and speedway locations we consider assured sales as those sales we make to marathon brand customers, our speedway operations and to our wholesale customers with whom we have required minimum volume sales contracts. we believe having assured sales brings ratability to our distribution systems, provides a solid base to enhance our overall supply reliability and allows us to efficiently and effectively optimize our operations between our refineries, our pipelines and our terminals. the marathon brand has been a consistent vehicle for sales volume growth in existing and contiguous markets. the acquisition of the galveston bay refinery and related assets provides us with opportunities to further expand our market presence. through the assignment of branded-jobber contracts representing approximately 1,200 retail outlets, we are in position to take advantage of opportunities with premier southeast jobbers and to significantly expand our brand presence in the southeast. we also intend to grow speedway gasoline and distillates sales volumes through internal capital program growth projects and acquisitions that complement our existing store network. deliver profitable speedway growth we intend to grow speedway sales and profitability by focusing on continuous improvement of existing operations, organic growth and strategic store acquisition opportunities. for example, the acquisition of 97 convenience stores in 2012 has increased speedway presence in the midwest. in addition, our industry-leading speedy rewards &reg; customer loyalty program, which has over three million members, provides us with a unique competitive advantage and opportunity to increase our speedway customer base with existing and new speedway locations. utilize and expand our high quality employee workforce we plan to utilize our high quality employee workforce by continuing to leverage our commercial skills. in addition, we plan to expand our workforce through selective hiring practices and effective training programs on safety, environmental stewardship and other professional and technical skills. 8 table of contents the above discussion contains forward-looking statements with respect to our competitive strengths and business strategies, including our share repurchase program and pursuing potential acquisitions. there can be no assurance that we will be successful, in whole or in part, in pursuing our business strategies, including our share repurchase program or pursuing potential acquisitions. factors that could affect the share repurchase program and its timing include, but are not limited to, business conditions, availability of liquidity and the market price of our common stock. factors that could affect pursuing potential acquisitions include, but are not limited to, our ability to implement and realize the benefits and synergies of our strategic initiatives, availability of liquidity, actions taken by competitors, regulatory approvals and operating performance. these factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. for additional information on forward-looking statements and risks that can affect our business, see disclosures regarding forward-looking statements and item 1a. risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. refining &amp; marketing refineries as of december 31, 2012, we owned and operated six refineries in the gulf coast and midwest regions of the united states with an aggregate crude oil refining capacity of approximately 1.25 mmbpcd. the acquisition of the galveston bay refinery on february 1, 2013 increased our crude oil refining capacity to approximately 1.7 mmbpcd. during 2012, our refineries processed 1,195 thousand barrels per day ( mbpd ) of crude oil and 168 mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. during 2011, our refineries processed 1,177 mbpd of crude oil and 181 mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. the table below sets forth the location, crude oil refining capacity, tank storage capacity and number of tanks for each of our refineries as of december 31, 2012. refinery crude oil refining capacity (mbpcd) (a) tank shell capacity (million barrels) number of tanks garyville, louisiana 522 16 75 catlettsburg, kentucky 240 6 112 robinson, illinois 206 6 103 detroit, michigan 120 6 86 canton, ohio 80 3 73 texas city, texas 80 5 60 total 1,248 42 509 (a) refining throughput can exceed crude oil capacity due to the processing of other feedstocks in addition to crude oil and the timing of planned turnaround and major maintenance activity. our refineries include crude oil atmospheric and vacuum distillation, fluid catalytic cracking, catalytic reforming, desulfurization and sulfur recovery units. the refineries process a wide variety of crude oils and produce numerous refined products, ranging from transportation fuels, such as reformulated gasolines, blend-grade gasolines intended for blending with fuel ethanol and ulsd fuel, to heavy fuel oil and asphalt. additionally, we manufacture aromatics, propane, propylene, cumene and sulfur. our refineries are integrated with each other via pipelines, terminals and barges to maximize operating efficiency. the transportation links that connect our refineries allow the movement of intermediate products between refineries to optimize operations, produce higher margin products and utilize our processing capacity efficiently. for example, naphtha may be moved from texas city to robinson where excess reforming capacity is available. also, by shipping intermediate products between facilities during partial refinery shutdowns, we are able to utilize processing capacity that is not directly affected by the shutdown work. 9 table of contents garyville, louisiana refinery . our garyville, louisiana refinery is located along the mississippi river in southeastern louisiana between new orleans and baton rouge. the garyville refinery is configured to process almost any grade of crude oil into products such as gasoline, distillates, fuel-grade coke, asphalt, polymer grade propylene, propane, slurry, isobutane and sulfur. an expansion project was completed in 2009 that increased garyville crude oil refining capacity, making it one of the largest refineries in the u.s. our garyville refinery has earned designation as a u.s. occupational safety and health administration ( osha ) voluntary protection program ( vpp ) star site. catlettsburg, kentucky refinery . our catlettsburg, kentucky refinery is located in northeastern kentucky on the western bank of the big sandy river, near the confluence with the ohio river. the catlettsburg refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into products such as gasoline, distillates, asphalt, heavy fuel oil, cumene, propane, propylene and petrochemicals. robinson, illinois refinery . our robinson, illinois refinery is located in southeastern illinois. the robinson refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into products such as multiple grades of gasoline, distillates, propane, anode-grade coke and propylene. the robinson refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. detroit, michigan refinery . our detroit, michigan refinery is located in southwest detroit. it is the only petroleum refinery currently operating in michigan. the detroit refinery processes light sweet and heavy sour crude oils, including canadian crude oils, into products such as gasoline, distillates, asphalt, propylene, propane, slurry and fuel-grade coke. our detroit refinery earned designation as a michigan vpp star site in 2010. in the fourth quarter of 2012, we completed a heavy oil upgrading and expansion project that enables the refinery to process up to an additional 80 mbpd of heavy sour crude oils, including canadian bitumen blends, and increased its total crude oil refining capacity by approximately 14 mbpcd, to 120 mbpcd. canton, ohio refinery . our canton, ohio refinery is located approximately 60 miles south of cleveland, ohio. the canton refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into products such as gasoline, distillates, asphalt, roofing flux, propane and slurry. texas city, texas refinery . our texas city, texas refinery is located on the texas gulf coast approximately 30 miles southeast of houston, texas. the refinery processes light sweet crude oil into products such as gasoline, chemical grade propylene, propane, slurry and aromatics. our texas city refinery earned designation as an osha vpp star site in 2012. as of december 31, 2012, our refineries had 24 rail loading racks and 23 truck loading racks and three of our refineries had a total of seven owned and four non-owned docks. total throughput in 2012 was 75 mbpd for the refinery loading racks and 499 mbpd for the refinery docks. planned maintenance activities, or turnarounds, requiring temporary shutdown of certain refinery operating units, are periodically performed at each refinery. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional detail. 10 table of contents refined product yields the following table sets forth our refinery production (including the st. paul park refinery until december 1, 2010) by product group for each of the last three years. refined product yields (mbpd) 2012 2011 2010 gasoline 738 739 726 distillates 433 433 409 propane 26 25 24 feedstocks and special products 109 109 97 heavy fuel oil 18 21 24 asphalt 62 56 76 total 1,386 1,383 1,356 crude oil supply we obtain the crude oil we refine through negotiated contracts and purchases or exchanges on the spot market. our crude oil supply contracts are generally term contracts with market-related pricing provisions. the following table provides information on our sources of crude oil for each of the last three years (including the st. paul park refinery until december 1, 2010). the crude oil sourced outside of north america was acquired from various foreign national oil companies, production companies and trading companies. sources of crude oil refined (mbpd) 2012 2011 2010 united states 649 668 720 canada 195 177 115 middle east and other international 351 332 338 total 1,195 1,177 1,173 average cost of crude oil throughput (dollars per barrel) $ 102.53 $ 102.83 $ 78.57 our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks and distribute our refined products through a variety of channels, including pipelines, trucks, railcars, ships and barges. during 2012, we began transporting crude oil by truck from the utica shale region to our canton refinery. as of december 31, 2012, we owned four transport trucks and seven trailers for this purpose. refined product marketing we believe we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers and consumers within our 17-state market area in the midwest, gulf coast and southeast regions of the united states. independent retailers, wholesale customers, our marathon brand jobbers and speedway brand convenience stores, airlines, transportation companies and utilities comprise the core of our customer base. in addition, we sell distillates, asphalt and gasoline for export to international customers, primarily out of our garyville refinery. sales destined for export comprised approximately 25 percent of our distillate sales and 13 percent of our asphalt sales in 2012. 11 table of contents the following table sets forth, as a percentage of total refined product sales volume, the sales of refined products to our different customer types for the past three years (including the minnesota assets until december 1, 2010). refined product sales by customer type 2012 2011 2010 private-brand marketers, commercial and industrial customers, including spot market 72% 72% 70% marathon-branded dealers and jobbers 17% 17% 17% speedway &reg; convenience stores 11% 11% 13% the following table sets forth the approximate number of retail outlets (by state) where dealers and jobbers maintain marathon-branded retail outlets, as of december 31, 2012. state approximate number of marathon &reg; retail outlets alabama 139 florida 259 georgia 256 illinois 395 indiana 647 kentucky 576 maryland 1 michigan 778 minnesota 84 north carolina 311 ohio 860 pennsylvania 40 south carolina 128 tennessee 173 virginia 136 west virginia 111 wisconsin 70 total 4,964 the following table sets forth our refined products sales volumes by product group and our average sales price for each of the last three years (including the minnesota assets until december 1, 2010). refined product sales (mbpd) 2012 2011 2010 gasoline 916 908 912 distillates 463 459 434 propane 27 25 24 feedstocks and special products 112 111 103 heavy fuel oil 19 19 23 asphalt 62 59 77 total 1,599 1,581 1,573 average sales price, including consumer excise taxes (dollars per barrel) $ 126.13 $ 123.14 $ 94.13 gasoline and distillates . we sell gasoline, gasoline blendstocks and distillates (including no. 1 and no. 2 fuel oils, kerosene, jet fuel and diesel fuel) to wholesale customers, marathon-branded jobbers and dealers and our 12 table of contents speedway &reg; convenience stores in the midwest, gulf coast and southeast regions of the united states and on the spot market. in addition, we sell diesel fuel for export to international customers. we sold 57 percent of our gasoline sales volumes and 89 percent of our distillates sales volumes on a wholesale or spot market basis in 2012. the demand for gasoline and distillates is seasonal in many of our markets, with demand typically at its highest levels during the summer months. we have blended ethanol into gasoline for more than 20 years and began expanding our blending program in 2007, in part due to federal regulations that require us to use specified volumes of renewable fuels. ethanol volumes sold in blended gasoline (including the minnesota assets until december 1, 2010) were 68 mbpd in 2012, 70 mbpd in 2011 and 68 mbpd in 2010. the future expansion or contraction of our ethanol blending program will be driven by the economics of the ethanol supply and by government regulations. we sell reformulated gasoline, which is also blended with ethanol, in parts of our marketing territory, including kentucky, illinois, indiana, wisconsin, pennsylvania and texas. we also sell biodiesel-blended diesel fuel in kentucky, west virginia, illinois, ohio, north carolina, florida, virginia, pennsylvania, georgia, minnesota and tennessee. we hold a 36 percent interest in an entity that owns and operates a 110-million-gallon-per-year ethanol production facility in clymers, indiana. we also own a 50 percent interest in an entity that owns a 110-million-gallon-per-year ethanol production facility in greenville, ohio. both of these facilities are managed by a co-owner. propane . we produce propane at all of our refineries. propane is primarily used for home heating and cooking, as a feedstock within the petrochemical industry, for grain drying and as a fuel for trucks and other vehicles. our propane sales are typically split evenly between the home heating market and industrial consumers. feedstocks and special products . we are a producer and marketer of feedstocks and specialty products. product availability varies by refinery and includes propylene, cumene, molten sulfur, toluene, benzene, xylene and dilute naphthalene oil. we market all products domestically to customers in the chemical, agricultural and fuel blending industries. in addition, we produce fuel-grade coke at our garyville and detroit refineries, which is used for power generation and in miscellaneous industrial applications, and anode-grade coke at our robinson refinery, which is used to make carbon anodes for the aluminum smelting industry. heavy fuel oil . we produce and market heavy residual fuel oil or related components at all of our refineries. heavy residual fuel oil is primarily used in the utility and ship bunkering (fuel) industries, though there are other more specialized uses of the product. asphalt . we have refinery-based asphalt production capacity of up to 98 mbpcd. we market asphalt through 31 owned or leased terminals throughout the midwest and southeast. we have a broad customer base, including asphalt-paving contractors, government entities (states, counties, cities and townships) and asphalt roofing shingle manufacturers. we sell asphalt in the domestic and export wholesale markets via rail, barge and vessel. we also produce asphalt cements, polymer modified asphalt, emulsified asphalt and industrial asphalts. 13 table of contents refined product distribution as of december 31, 2012, we owned and operated 61 light product and 21 asphalt terminals. the acquisition of the galveston bay refinery and related assets on february 1, 2013 increased our number of owned and operated light product terminals to 65. our light product and asphalt terminals averaged 1,278 mbpd and 31 mbpd of throughput in 2012, respectively. in addition, we distribute refined products through one leased light product terminal, two light product terminals in which we have partial ownership interests but do not operate and approximately 61 third-party light product and 10 third-party asphalt terminals in our market area. the following table sets forth additional details about our owned and operated terminals at december 31, 2012. owned and operated terminals number of terminals tank shell capacity (thousand barrels) number of tanks number of loading lanes light product terminals: alabama 2 404 20 4 florida 3 1,942 54 17 georgia 4 896 38 9 illinois 4 1,165 45 14 indiana 7 3,021 79 19 kentucky 6 2,266 64 24 louisiana 1 89 8 2 michigan 9 2,191 85 28 north carolina 2 451 17 6 ohio 13 4,114 164 33 pennsylvania 1 336 10 2 south carolina 1 344 13 3 tennessee 3 727 29 9 virginia 1 276 12 2 west virginia 2 149 10 2 wisconsin 2 814 20 7 subtotal light product terminals 61 19,185 668 181 asphalt terminals: florida 1 254 4 3 illinois 2 100 9 6 indiana 3 703 18 9 kentucky 4 567 34 14 louisiana 1 52 8 2 michigan 1 12 2 8 new york 1 112 3 3 ohio 4 1,919 46 10 pennsylvania 1 469 14 8 tennessee 3 951 34 12 subtotal asphalt terminals 21 5,139 172 75 total owned and operated terminals 82 24,324 840 256 14 table of contents as of december 31, 2012, our marine transportation operations included 15 towboats, as well as 177 owned and 14 leased barges that transport refined products on the ohio, mississippi and illinois rivers and their tributaries and inter-coastal waterways. the following table sets forth additional details about our towboats and barges. class of equipment number in class capacity (thousand barrels) inland tank barges: (a) less than 25,000 barrels 61 858 25,000 barrels and over 130 3,784 total 191 4,642 inland towboats: less than 2000 horsepower 2 2000 horsepower and over 13 total 15 (a) all of our barges are double-hulled. as of december 31, 2012, we owned 142 transport trucks and 150 trailers with an aggregate capacity of 1.4 million gallons for the movement of refined products. in addition, we had 1,944 leased and 27 owned railcars of various sizes and capacities for movement and storage of refined products. the following table sets forth additional details about our railcars. number of railcars class of equipment owned leased total capacity per railcar general service tank cars - 694 694 20,000-30,000 gallons high pressure tank cars - 1,041 1,041 33,500 gallons open-top hoppers 27 209 236 4,000 cubic feet 27 1,944 1,971 galveston bay refinery and related assets our galveston bay refinery, which we acquired on february 1, 2013, is located on the texas gulf coast approximately 30 miles southeast of houston, texas. the refinery has a crude oil refining capacity of 451 mbpcd and storage tank shell capacity of approximately 16 million barrels. the refinery can process almost any grade of crude oil into products such as gasoline, distillates, fuel-grade coke, slurry, propylene, propane and aromatics. our cogeneration facility, which supplies the galveston bay refinery, has 1,040 megawatts of electrical production capacity and can produce 4.6 million pounds of steam per hour. the four light product terminals we acquired are located in nashville, tennessee; charlotte, north carolina; selma, north carolina and jacksonville, florida. the terminals have 42 storage tanks with aggregate shell capacity of 2.27 million barrels and 19 loading lanes. the assignment of branded-jobber contracts represents approximately 1,200 retail outlets, primarily in florida, mississippi, tennessee and alabama. speedway our speedway segment sells gasoline and merchandise through convenience stores that it owns and operates, primarily under the speedway brand. diesel fuel is also sold at the vast majority of these convenience stores. speedway brand convenience stores offer a wide variety of merchandise, such as prepared foods, beverages and non-food items, including a number of private-label items. speedy rewards , an industry-leading customer loyalty program, has achieved significant customer engagement over the years since its introduction in 2004. the average monthly active membership in 2012 was more than three million customers. 15 table of contents as of december 31, 2012, speedway had 1,464 convenience stores in seven states. revenues from sales of merchandise (including sales until december 1, 2010 from convenience stores we sold as part of the minnesota assets) totaled $3.06 billion in 2012, $2.92 billion in 2011 and $3.20 billion in 2010. the demand for gasoline is seasonal, with the highest demand usually occurring during the summer driving season. margins from the sale of merchandise tend to be less volatile than margins from the retail sale of gasoline and diesel fuel. as of december 31, 2012, the speedway segment convenience stores were located in the following states: state number of convenience stores illinois 107 indiana 310 kentucky 140 michigan 301 ohio 483 west virginia 60 wisconsin 63 total 1,464 harris interactive annual harris poll equitrend &reg; brand equity study named speedway the number one convenience store brand with consumers nationally for 2012 and the number one gasoline brand with consumers for each of the prior three years. for 2011, speedway was presented with a convenience retailing award from csp information group, inc., for consumer experience provided by the speedy rewards program. pipeline transportation as of december 31, 2012, we owned, leased or had ownership interests in approximately 8,200 miles of crude oil and products pipelines, of which approximately 2,900 miles are owned through our investments in mplx and pipe line holdings. the acquisition of approximately 100 miles of natural gas liquid pipelines on february 1, 2013 increased the total mile count to approximately 8,300 miles. mplx in 2012, we formed mplx, a master limited partnership, to own, operate, develop and acquire pipelines and other midstream assets related to the transportation and storage of crude oil, refined products and other hydrocarbon-based products. on october 31, 2012, mplx completed its initial public offering. we own a 73.6 percent interest in mplx, including the general partner interest. mplx assets consist of a 51 percent general partner interest in pipe line holdings, which owns common carrier pipeline systems through marathon pipe line llc ( mpl ) and ohio river pipe line llc ( orpl ), and a 100 percent interest in a one million barrel butane storage cavern in west virginia. in addition, we own the remaining 49 percent limited partner interest in pipe line holdings. as of december 31, 2012, pipe line holdings, through mpl and orpl, owned or leased and operated 1,004 miles of common carrier crude oil lines and 1,902 miles of common carrier products lines comprising 30 systems located in nine states and four tank farms in illinois and indiana with available storage capacity of 3.29 million barrels that is committed to mpc. 16 table of contents the table below sets forth additional detail regarding the pipeline systems and storage assets we own through pipe line holdings and mplx as of december 31, 2012. pipeline system or storage asset origin destination diameter (inches) length (miles) capacity (a) associated mpc refinery crude oil pipeline systems (mbpd): patoka, il to lima, oh crude system patoka, il lima, oh 20 -22 302 290 detroit, canton catlettsburg, ky and robinson, il crude system patoka, il catlettsburg, ky &amp; robinson, il 20 -24 484 481 catlettsburg, robinson detroit, mi crude system (b) samaria &amp; romulus, mi detroit, mi 16 61 320 detroit wood river, il to patoka, il crude system (b) wood river &amp; roxana, il patoka, il 12 -22 115 307 all midwest refineries inactive pipelines 42 n/a total 1,004 1,398 products pipeline systems (mbpd): garyville, la products system garyville, la zachary, la 20 -36 72 389 garyville texas city, tx products system texas city, tx pasadena, tx 16 -36 42 215 texas city orpl products system various various 6 -14 518 242 catlettsburg, canton robinson, il products system (b) various various 10 -16 1,173 545 robinson louisville, ky airport products system louisville, ky louisville, ky 6 -8 14 29 robinson inactive pipelines 83 n/a total 1,902 1,420 wood river, il barge dock (mbpd) 80 garyville storage assets (thousand barrels): neal, wv butane cavern (c) 1,000 catlettsburg patoka, il tank farm 1,386 all midwest refineries wood river, il tank farm 419 all midwest refineries martinsville, il tank farm 738 detroit, canton lebanon, in tank farm 750 detroit, canton total 4,293 (a) all capacities reflect 100 percent of the pipeline systems and barge dock average capacity in thousands of barrels per day and 100 percent of the available storage capacity of our butane cavern and tank farms in thousand of barrels. crude oil capacity is based on light crude oil barrels. (b) includes pipelines leased from third parties. (c) the neal, wv butane cavern is 100 percent owned by mplx. the pipe line holdings common carrier pipeline network is one of the largest petroleum pipeline systems in the united states, based on total volume delivered. third parties generated 14 percent of the crude oil and refined product shipments on these common carrier pipelines in 2012, excluding volumes shipped by mpc under joint tariffs with third parties. these common carrier pipelines transported the volumes shown in the following table for each of the last three years. pipeline throughput (mbpd) (a)(b) 2012 2011 2010 crude oil pipelines 1,029 993 883 refined products pipelines 980 1,031 968 total 2,009 2,024 1,851 (a) mplx volumes reported in mplx prospectus related to its initial public offering included our undivided joint interest crude oil pipeline systems, which were not contributed to mplx. the undivided joint interest volumes are not included above. (b) volumes represent 100 percent of the throughput through these pipelines. 17 table of contents mpc-retained assets and investments in addition to our 49% ownership interest in pipe line holdings, we retained ownership interests in several crude oil and products pipeline systems and pipeline companies. as of december 31, 2012, we owned undivided joint interests in the following common carrier crude oil pipeline systems. pipeline system origin destination diameter (inches) length (miles) ownership interest operated by mpl capline st. james, la patoka, il 40 635 33 % no maumee lima, oh samaria, mi 22 95 26 % no total 730 mpc consolidated volumes transported through our common carrier pipelines, which include mplx and our undivided joint interests, are shown in the following table for each of the last three years. mpc consolidated pipeline throughput (mbpd) 2012 2011 2010 crude oil pipelines 1,190 1,184 1,204 refined products pipelines 980 1,031 968 total 2,170 2,215 2,172 as of december 31, 2012, we had partial ownership interests in the following pipeline companies. pipeline company origin destination diameter (inches) length (miles) ownership interest operated by mpl crude oil pipeline companies: locap llc clovelly, la st. james, la 48 57 59 % no loop llc offshore gulf of mexico clovelly, la 48 48 51 % no total 105 products pipeline companies: centennial pipeline llc (a) beaumont, tx bourbon, il 24 -26 795 50 % yes explorer pipeline company lake charles, la hammond, in 12 -28 1,883 17 % no muskegon pipeline llc griffith, in muskegon, mi 10 170 60 % yes wolverine pipe line company chicago, il bay city &amp; ferrysburg, mi 6 -18 743 6 % no total 3,591 (a) includes 48 miles of inactive pipeline. 18 table of contents we also own 183 miles of private crude oil pipelines and 658 miles of private refined products pipelines that are operated by mpl for the benefit of our refining &amp; marketing segment on a cost recovery basis. the following table provides additional information on these assets. private pipeline systems diameter (inches) length (miles) capacity (mbpd) crude oil pipeline systems: lima, oh to canton, oh 12 -16 153 84 st. james, la to garyville, la 30 20 620 other 2 15 inactive pipelines 8 n/a total 183 719 products pipeline systems: robinson, il to lima, oh 8 250 18 louisville, ky to lexington, ky (a) 8 87 37 woodhaven, mi to detroit, mi 4 26 11 illinois pipeline systems 4 -8 118 32 ohio pipeline systems 4 -6 61 39 inactive pipelines 116 n/a total 658 137 (a) we own a 65 percent undivided joint interest in the louisville, ky to lexington, ky system. as of december 31, 2012, we owned 60 private tanks with storage capacity of approximately 6.5 million barrels, which are located along mplx pipelines. galveston bay refinery and related assets as part of the february 1, 2013 acquisition of the galveston bay refinery and related assets, we acquired approximately 100 miles of natural gas liquid pipelines consisting of three intrastate systems originating at the galveston bay refinery. the pipelines are each eight inches in diameter and have a total capacity of approximately 40 mbpd. competition, market conditions and seasonality the downstream petroleum business is highly competitive, particularly with regard to accessing crude oil and other feedstock supply and the marketing of refined products. we compete with a large number of other companies to acquire crude oil for refinery processing and in the distribution and marketing of a full array of petroleum products. based upon the the oil &amp; gas journal 2012 worldwide refinery survey and our acquisition of the galveston bay refinery on february 1, 2013, we ranked fourth among u.s. petroleum companies on the basis of u.s. crude oil refining capacity as of february 1, 2013. we compete in four distinct markets for the sale of refined products wholesale, spot, branded and retail distribution. we believe we compete with about 60 companies in the sale of refined products to wholesale marketing customers, including private-brand marketers and large commercial and industrial consumers; about 80 companies in the sale of refined products in the spot market; 11 refiners or marketers in the supply of refined products to refiner-branded dealers and jobbers; and approximately 250 retailers in the retail sale of refined products. in addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. we do not produce any of the crude oil we refine. 19 table of contents we also face strong competition for sales of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. our competitors include service stations and convenience stores operated by fully integrated major oil companies and their dealers and jobbers and other well-recognized national or regional convenience stores and travel centers, often selling gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise at aggressively competitive prices. non-traditional retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, have affected the convenience store industry with their entrance into the retail transportation fuel business. energy analysts international, inc. estimates such retailers had 12.4 percent of the u.s. gasoline market in 2012. our pipeline transportation operations are highly regulated, which affects the rates that our common carrier pipelines can charge for transportation services and the return we obtain from such pipelines. market conditions in the oil and gas industry are cyclical and subject to global economic and political events and new and changing governmental regulations. our operating results are affected by price changes in crude oil, natural gas and refined products, as well as changes in competitive conditions in the markets we serve. price differentials between sweet and sour crude oil also affect our operating results. demand for gasoline, diesel fuel and asphalt is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets, primarily due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and construction. as a result, the operating results for each of our segments for the first and fourth quarters are generally lower than for those in the second and third quarters of each calendar year. environmental matters our management is responsible for ensuring that our operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that support and foster our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and for reviewing our overall performance associated with various environmental compliance programs. we also have a corporate emergency response team, composed primarily of senior management, which oversees our response to any major environmental or other emergency incident involving us or any of our facilities. we believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to issues concerning the extent and causes of climate change will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations. currently, various legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gases are in various phases of review, discussion or implementation. the cost to comply with these laws and regulations cannot be estimated at this time, but could be significant. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors. we estimate and publicly report greenhouse gas emissions from our operations and products we produce. additionally, we continuously strive to improve operational and energy efficiencies through resource and energy conservation where practicable and cost effective. our operations are also subject to numerous other laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. these environmental laws and regulations include, among others, the clean air act with respect to air emissions, the clean water act with respect to water discharges, the resource conservation and recovery act ( rcra ) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ( cercla ) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances and the oil pollution act of 1990 ( opa-90 ) with respect to oil pollution and response. in addition, many states where we operate have similar laws. new laws are being enacted and regulations are being adopted by various regulatory agencies on a continuing basis, and the costs of compliance with any new laws and regulations are very difficult to estimate at this time. for a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and costs of compliance for air, water, solid waste and remediation, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations environmental matters and compliance costs. 20 table of contents air we are subject to substantial requirements in connection with air emissions from our operations. the u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) issued an endangerment finding in 2009 that greenhouse gas emissions contribute to air pollution that endangers public health and welfare. related to this endangerment finding, in april 2010, the epa finalized a greenhouse gas emissions standard for mobile sources (cars and light duty vehicles). the endangerment finding along with the mobile source standard and the epa determination that greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the clean air act, and the epa so-called tailoring rule led to permitting of larger stationary sources of greenhouse gas emissions, including refineries. legal challenges filed against these epa actions were overruled by the d.c. circuit court of appeals, but several parties will seek further review by the u.s. supreme court. we also expect refinery-specific new source performance standards will be proposed in 2013. congress may again consider legislation on greenhouse gas emissions or a carbon tax. private parties have sued utilities and other emitters of greenhouse gas emissions, but we have not been named in any of those lawsuits. private-party litigation is also pending against federal and certain state governmental entities seeking additional greenhouse gas emission reductions beyond those currently being undertaken. although there may be an adverse financial impact (including compliance costs, potential permitting delays and potential reduced demand for certain refined products made from crude oil) associated with any legislation, regulation, litigation or other action, the extent and magnitude of that impact cannot be reasonably estimated due to the uncertainty regarding the additional measures and how they will be implemented. of particular significance to our refining operations were epa mobile source air toxics ii ( msat ii ) regulations that require reduced benzene levels in refined products. we spent approximately $620 million over a four-year period to complete all msat ii projects, and all units were in operation as of december 31, 2011. the epa has reviewed and has revised or will propose to revise the national ambient air quality standards ( naaqs ) for criteria air pollutants. the naaqs are subject to multiple court challenges, making final compliance plans uncertain. the epa promulgated a revised ozone standard in march 2008 and commenced a multi-year process to develop the implementing rules required by the clean air act. in 2013, the epa is expected to propose a stricter ozone standard as part of epa periodic review of that standard. also, in 2010, the epa adopted new short-term standards for nitrogen dioxide and sulfur dioxide, and in december 2012 issued a more stringent fine particulate matter (pm 2.5) standard. we cannot reasonably estimate the final financial impact of these proposed and revised naaqs standards until the standards are finalized, individual state implementing rules are established and judicial challenges are resolved. in december 2012, the epa signed final reconsideration amendments to the boiler and process heater maximum achievable control technology ( boiler mact ) rule. this rule had been finalized in march 2011 with work practice standards that are applicable to refinery and natural gas fired equipment. while epa retained the work practice standards for most refinery equipment, we are currently evaluating the financial impact of the boiler mact rule as a result of the reconsideration amendments. further changes to the rule may occur because of potential litigation. in 2013, the epa is expected to propose a refinery sector rule. this rule may require various refinery unit modifications, additional controls, lower emission standards and ambient air monitoring. we cannot reasonably estimate the financial impact of this rule until it is proposed and finalized. water we maintain numerous discharge permits as required under the national pollutant discharge elimination system program of the clean water act and have implemented systems to oversee our compliance efforts. in addition, we are regulated under opa-90, which among other requirements, requires the owner or operator of a tank vessel or a facility to maintain an emergency plan to respond to releases of oil or hazardous substances. also, in case of any such release, opa-90 requires the responsible company to pay resulting removal costs and damages. opa-90 also 21 table of contents provides for civil penalties and imposes criminal sanctions for violations of its provisions. we have implemented emergency oil response plans for all of our components and facilities covered by opa-90 and we have established spill prevention, control and countermeasures plans for all facilities subject to such requirements. additionally, opa-90 requires that new tank vessels entering or operating in u.s. waters be double-hulled and that existing tank vessels that are not double-hulled be retrofitted or removed from u.s. service, according to a phase-out schedule. all of the barges used for river transport of our raw materials and refined products meet the double-hulled requirements of opa-90. we operate facilities at which spills of oil and hazardous substances could occur. some coastal states in which we operate have passed state laws similar to opa-90, but with expanded liability provisions, including provisions for cargo owner responsibility as well as ship owner and operator responsibility. solid waste we continue to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. rcra establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. besides affecting waste disposal practices, rcra also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of underground storage tanks ( usts ) containing regulated substances. we have ongoing rcra treatment and disposal operations at one of our facilities and primarily utilize offsite third-party treatment and disposal facilities. ongoing rcra-related costs, however, are not expected to be material to our results of operations or cash flows. remediation we own or operate, or have owned or operated, certain retail outlets where, during the normal course of operations, releases of refined products from usts have occurred. federal and state laws require that contamination caused by such releases at these sites be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards. the enforcement of the ust regulations under rcra has been delegated to the states, which administer their own ust programs. our obligation to remediate such contamination varies, depending on the extent of the releases and the stringency of the laws and regulations of the states in which we operate. a portion of these remediation costs may be recoverable from the appropriate state ust reimbursement funds once the applicable deductibles have been satisfied. we also have ongoing remediation projects at a number of our current and former refinery, terminal and pipeline locations. penalties or other sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance. claims under cercla and similar state acts have been raised with respect to the clean-up of various waste disposal and other sites. cercla is intended to facilitate the clean-up of hazardous substances without regard to fault. potentially responsible parties for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the hazardous substances at the site. liability is strict and can be joint and several. because of various factors including the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and clean-up costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, we are unable to reasonably estimate our ultimate cost of compliance with cercla; however, we do not believe such costs will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. mileage standards, renewable fuels and other fuels requirements in 2007, the u.s. congress passed the energy independence and security act ( eisa ), which, among other things, set a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the united states by model year 2020, and contains a second renewable fuel standard (the rfs2 ). in august 2012, the epa and the national highway traffic safety administration jointly adopted regulations that establish average industry 22 table of contents fleet fuel economy standards for passenger cars and light trucks of up to 41 miles per gallon by model year 2021 and average fleet fuel economy standards of up to 49.7 miles per gallon by model year 2025 (the standards from 2022 to 2025 are the government current estimate but will require further rulemaking). the rfs2 requires 16.55 billion gallons of renewable fuel usage in 2013, increasing to 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. in the near term, the rfs2 will be satisfied primarily with fuel ethanol blended into gasoline. the rfs2 presents production and logistic challenges for both the renewable fuels and petroleum refining and marketing industries. the rfs2 has required, and may in the future continue to require, additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. within the overall 36.0 billion gallon rfs2, eisa established an advanced biofuel rfs2 volume of 2.0 billion gallons in 2012 increasing to 21.0 billion gallons in 2022. subsets within the advanced biofuel rfs2 include biomass-based diesel, which was set at 1.0 billion gallons in 2012 and at least 1.0 billion gallons in 2013 through 2022 (to be determined by the epa through future rulemaking), and cellulosic biofuel, which was set at 0.5 billion gallons in 2012, 1.0 billion gallons in 2013, increasing to 16.0 billion gallons by 2022. the epa established the 2013 biomass-based diesel requirement at 1.28 billion gallons. the epa determined that 0.5 billion gallons of cellulosic biofuel would not be produced in 2012, and lowered the requirement to 8.65 million gallons. the american petroleum institute challenged the epa 2012 cellulosic biofuel requirement and the d.c. circuit court of appeals vacated the requirement finding that it was unlawfully determined and remanded it for further determination. the advanced biofuels programs will present specific challenges in that we may have to enter into arrangements with other parties or purchase credits from the epa to meet our obligations to use advanced biofuels, including biomass-based diesel and cellulosic biofuel, with potentially uncertain supplies of these new fuels. the advanced requirement for 2012 required a substantial level of brazilian sugarcane ethanol imports since other sources of advanced renewable fuels were not available. in 2012, the epa also discovered that 140 million biodiesel renewable identification numbers ( rins ) used to meet the annual requirement for that fuel had been fraudulently created and sold to unsuspecting third parties, including us. we made investments in infrastructure capable of expanding biodiesel blending capability to help comply with the biodiesel rfs2 requirement by buying and blending biodiesel into our refined diesel product, and by buying needed biodiesel rins in the epa-created biodiesel rins market. on october 13, 2010, the epa issued a partial waiver decision under the clean air act to allow for an increase in the amount of ethanol permitted to be blended into gasoline from 10 percent ( e10 ) to 15 percent ( e15 ) for 2007 and newer light-duty motor vehicles. on january 21, 2011, the epa issued a second waiver for the use of e15 in vehicles model year 2001-2006. there are numerous issues, including state and federal regulatory issues, which need to be addressed before e15 can be marketed for use in traditional gasoline engines. there will be compliance costs and uncertainties regarding how we will comply with the various requirements contained in eisa and related regulations. we may experience a decrease in demand for refined petroleum products due to an increase in combined fleet mileage or due to refined petroleum products being replaced by renewable fuels. the epa tier 3 gasoline rulemaking could potentially lower the allowable sulfur level in gasoline but it may also lower the reid vapor pressure, and the allowable benzene, aromatics and olefins content of gasoline, while possibly increasing octane requirements. we anticipate a proposed rule will be issued in 2013 and plan to participate in the public comment process. trademarks, patents and licenses our marathon trademark is material to the conduct of our refining and marketing operations, and our speedway trademark is material to the conduct of our retail marketing operations. we currently hold a number of u.s. and 23 table of contents foreign patents and have various pending patent applications. although in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important to us, we do not regard any single patent or license or group of related patents or licenses as critical or essential to our business as a whole. in general, we depend on our technological capabilities and the application of know-how rather than patents and licenses in the conduct of our operations. employees we had approximately 25,985 regular employees as of december 31, 2012, which includes approximately 18,490 employees of speedway. approximately 2,025 employees were added in february 2013 associated with the galveston bay refinery and related assets. certain hourly employees at our catlettsburg, canton, galveston bay and texas city refineries are represented by the united steel, paper and forestry, rubber, manufacturing, energy, allied industrial and service workers union under labor agreements that are due to expire in 2015. the international brotherhood of teamsters represents certain hourly employees at our detroit refinery under a labor agreement that is scheduled to expire in january 2014. executive officers of the registrant the executive officers of mpc and their ages as of february 1, 2013, are as follows: name age position with mpc gary r. heminger 59 president and chief executive officer pamela k.m. beall 56 vice president, investor relations and government &amp; public affairs richard d. bedell 58 senior vice president, refining michael g. braddock 55 vice president and controller timothy t. griffith 43 vice president of finance and treasurer thomas m. kelley 53 senior vice president, marketing anthony r. kenney 59 president, speedway llc rodney p. nichols 60 senior vice president, human resources and administrative services c. michael palmer 59 senior vice president, supply, distribution and planning garry l. peiffer 61 executive vice president, corporate planning and investor &amp; government relations george p. shaffner 53 senior vice president, transportation and logistics john s. swearingen 53 vice president, health, environmental, safety &amp; security donald c. templin 49 senior vice president and chief financial officer donald w. wehrly 53 vice president and chief information officer j. michael wilder 60 vice president, general counsel and secretary with the exception of mr. griffith and mr. templin, all of the executive officers have held responsible management or professional positions with mpc, its affiliates or prior to the spinoff with marathon oil or its affiliates, for more than five years. mr. heminger was appointed president and chief executive officer effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. heminger was president of marathon petroleum company lp (formerly known as marathon ashland petroleum llc and marathon petroleum company llc), currently a wholly owned subsidiary of mpc and prior to the spinoff, a wholly owned subsidiary of marathon oil. he assumed responsibility as president of marathon petroleum company lp in september 2001. 24 table of contents ms. beall was appointed vice president, investor relations and government &amp; public affairs effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, ms. beall was vice president, products supply and optimization of marathon petroleum company lp beginning in june 2010. she served as vice president of global procurement for marathon oil company between 2007 and 2010 and prior to that as organizational vice president, business development downstream. mr. bedell was appointed senior vice president, refining effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. bedell served in the same capacity for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in june 2010 and as manager, louisiana refining division beginning in 2001. mr. braddock was appointed vice president and controller effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. braddock was controller of marathon petroleum company lp beginning in 2008 and manager, internal audit between 2005 and 2008. mr. griffith was appointed vice president of finance and treasurer effective august 1, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. griffith was vice president investor relations and treasurer of smurfit-stone container corporation, a packaging manufacturer, in st. louis, missouri, and prior to that was vice president and treasurer of cooper-standard automotive, a global automotive supplier, in novi, michigan, from 2006 to 2008. mr. kelley was appointed senior vice president, marketing effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. kelley served in the same capacity for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in january 2010. previously, he served as director of crude supply and logistics for marathon petroleum company lp from january 2008, and as a brand marketing manager for eight years prior to that. mr. kenney has served as president of speedway llc since august 2005. mr. nichols was appointed senior vice president, human resources and administrative services effective march 2012. prior to this appointment, mr. nichols served as vice president, human resources and administrative services beginning on june 30, 2011 and served in the same capacity for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in april 1998. mr. palmer was appointed senior vice president, supply distribution and planning effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. palmer served as vice president, supply distribution &amp; planning for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in june 2010. he served as crude supply and logistics director for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in february 2010, and as senior vice president, oil sands operations and commercial activities for marathon oil canada corporation beginning in 2007. mr. peiffer was appointed executive vice president of corporate planning and investor &amp; government relations effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. peiffer was senior vice president of finance and commercial services for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in 1998. mr. shaffner was appointed senior vice president, transportation and logistics effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. shaffner served in the same capacity for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in june 2010. previously, mr. shaffner served as michigan refining division manager beginning in october 2006. mr. swearingen was appointed vice president of health, environmental, safety &amp; security effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. swearingen was president of marathon pipe line llc beginning in 2009 and the illinois refining division manager beginning in november 2001. mr. templin was appointed senior vice president and chief financial officer effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. templin was a partner at pricewaterhousecoopers llp, an audit, tax and advisory services provider, with various audit and management responsibilities beginning in 1996. 25 table of contents mr. wehrly was appointed vice president and chief information officer effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. wehrly was the manager of information technology services for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in 2003. mr. wilder was appointed vice president, general counsel and secretary effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. wilder was associate general counsel of marathon oil company beginning in 2010 and general counsel and secretary of marathon petroleum company lp beginning in 1997. available information general information about mpc, including corporate governance principles and charters for the audit committee, compensation committee and corporate governance and nominating committee, can be found at http://ir.marathonpetroleum.com. in addition, our code of business conduct and code of ethics for senior financial officers are also available in this same location. mpc uses its website, www.marathonpetroleum.com , as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, financial information and market data. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished with the securities and exchange commission. these documents are also available in hard copy, free of charge, by contacting our investor relations office. in addition, our website allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive email alerts when we post news releases and financial information on our website. information contained on our website is not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k or other securities filings. 26 table of contents item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k in evaluating us and our common stock. some of these risks relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate, while others relate principally to our spinoff from marathon oil, the ownership of our common stock and securities markets generally. our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks, and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline. risks relating to our industry and our business failure to identify and manage risks inherent in our industry could adversely impact our business. our business requires us to identify and manage the risks inherent to the refining, marketing and transportation business in which we operate. our operations are subject to business interruption due to scheduled refinery turnarounds and to unplanned maintenance or events such as explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents, severe weather and labor disputes. such incidents may result in personal injury, loss of life, environmental damage, legal liability and loss of revenue. failure to identify and manage these risks could result in explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents resulting in personal injury, loss of life, environmental damage, property damage, legal liability, loss of revenue and substantial fines by governmental authorities. a substantial or extended decline in refining and marketing gross margins would reduce our operating results and cash flows and could materially and adversely impact our future rate of growth and the carrying value of our assets. our operating results, cash flows, future rate of growth and the carrying value of our assets are highly dependent on the margins we realize on our refined products. the measure of the difference between market prices for refined products and crude oil, or crack spread, is commonly used by the industry as a proxy for refining and marketing gross margins. historically, refining and marketing gross margins have been volatile and we believe they will continue to be volatile in the future. our margins and cost of producing gasoline and other refined products are influenced by a number of conditions, including the price of crude oil. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all of the crude oil we refine. the price of crude oil and the price at which we can sell our refined products may fluctuate independently due to a variety of regional and global market conditions. the overall change in crack spreads will impact our refining and marketing gross margins. many of the factors influencing the change in crack spreads and refining and marketing gross margins are beyond our control. these factors include: worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for crude oil and refined products; the cost of crude oil to be manufactured into refined products; the prices realized for refined products; utilization rates of refineries; natural gas and electricity supply costs incurred by refineries; the ability of the members of the opec to agree to and maintain production controls; political instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions; 27 table of contents local weather conditions; seasonality of demand in our marketing area due to increased highway traffic in the spring and summer months; natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornados; the price and availability of alternative and competing forms of energy; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and local, regional, national and worldwide economic conditions. some of these factors can vary by region and may change quickly, adding to market volatility, while others may have longer-term effects. the longer-term effects of these and other factors on refining and marketing gross margins are uncertain. we purchase our crude oil and other refinery feedstocks weeks before refining them and selling the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. we also purchase refined products manufactured by others for resale to our customers. price changes during the periods between purchasing and reselling those refined products also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. lower refining and marketing gross margins may reduce the amount of refined product we produce, which may reduce our revenues, operating income and cash flows. significant reductions in refining and marketing gross margins could require us to reduce our capital expenditures or impair the carrying value of our assets. the availability of crude oil and increases in crude oil prices may reduce profitability and refining and marketing gross margins. the profitability of our operations depends largely on the difference between the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks we refine and the selling prices we obtain for refined products. a portion of our crude oil is purchased from various foreign national oil companies, producing companies and trading companies, including suppliers from canada, the middle east and various other international locations. we are, therefore, subject to the political, geographic and economic risks attendant to doing business with suppliers located in, and supplies originating from, those areas. if one or more of our major supply sources were eliminated, or if political events disrupted our traditional crude oil supply, we believe adequate alternative supplies of crude oil would be available, but it is possible we would be unable to find alternative sources of supply. if we are unable to obtain adequate crude oil volumes or are able to obtain such volumes only at unfavorable prices, our operations, sales of refined products and refining and marketing margins could be adversely affected, materially and adversely impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. worldwide political and economic developments could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition to impacting crude oil and other feedstock supplies, political and economic factors in global markets could have a material adverse effect on us in other ways. hostilities in the middle east or the occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economies of the united states (the u.s. ) and other developed countries. a lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could cause our revenues and margins to decline and limit our future growth prospects. these risks could lead to increased volatility in prices for refined products. additionally, these risks could increase instability in the 28 table of contents financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult or costly for us to access capital and to obtain the insurance coverage that we consider adequate. additionally, tax policy, legislative or regulatory action and commercial restrictions could reduce our operating profitability. the u.s. government could prevent or restrict exports of refined products or the conduct of business with certain foreign countries. changes in environmental or other laws or regulations may reduce our refining and marketing gross margin and may result in substantial capital expenditures and operating costs that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. various laws and regulations are expected to impose increasingly stringent and costly requirements on our operations, which may reduce our refining and marketing gross margin. laws and regulations relating to the emission or discharge of materials into the environment, solid and hazardous waste management, pollution prevention, greenhouse gas emissions and characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, as well as those relating to public and employee safety and health and to facility security, in particular, are expected to become more stringent. the specific impact of laws and regulations on us and our competitors may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of operating facilities, marketing areas, crude oil and feedstock sources and production processes. we may be required to make expenditures to modify operations, install pollution control equipment, perform site cleanups or curtail operations that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we believe the issue of climate change will likely continue to receive scientific and political attention, with the potential for further laws and regulations that could affect our operations. the u.s. pledge in 2009, as part of the copenhagen accord, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 17% below 2005 levels by 2020, remains in effect. meetings of the united nations climate change conference, however, have produced no legally binding emission reduction requirements on the u.s. also in 2009, the epa issued a finding that greenhouse gas emissions contribute to air pollution that endangers public health and welfare. related to the endangerment finding, in april 2010, the epa finalized a greenhouse gas emission standard for mobile sources (cars and other light duty vehicles). the endangerment finding, the mobile source standard and the epa determination that greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the clean air act and the epa so-called tailoring rule led to permitting of larger stationary sources of greenhouse gas emissions, including refineries. we also expect refinery-specific new source performance standards will be proposed in 2013. legal challenges were filed against these epa actions. the d.c. circuit court of appeals overruled these challenges but several parties will seek further review by the u.s. supreme court. in the future, congress may again consider legislation on greenhouse gas emissions or a carbon tax. other measures to address greenhouse gas emissions are in various phases of review or implementation in the u.s. these measures include state actions to develop statewide or regional programs to impose emission reductions. private party litigation is pending against federal and certain state governmental entities seeking additional greenhouse gas emission reductions beyond those currently being undertaken. these actions could result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, capital expenditures to install new emission controls and costs to administer any carbon trading or tax programs implemented. although uncertain, these developments could increase our costs, reduce the demand for the products we sell and create delays in our obtaining air pollution permits for new or modified facilities. the eisa, among other things, sets a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the u.s. by model year 2020 and contains a second renewable fuel standard commonly referred to as rfs2. in august 2012, the epa and the national highway traffic safety administration jointly adopted regulations that establish average industry fleet fuel economy standards for passenger cars and light trucks of up to 41 miles per gallon by model year 2021 and of up to 49.7 miles per gallon by model year 2025 (the standards from 2022 to 2025 are the government current estimate but will require further rulemaking). increases in fuel mileage standards and the increased use of renewable fuels (including ethanol and advanced biofuels) may reduce demand for refined products. 29 table of contents the rfs2 required the total volume of renewable transportation fuels sold or introduced annually in the u.s. to reach 15.2 billion gallons in 2012 and increases to 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. the rfs2 presents production and logistics challenges for both the renewable fuels and petroleum refining industries, and may continue to require additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. the advanced biofuels program, a subset of the rfs2 requirements, creates uncertainties and presents challenges of supply, and may require that we and other refiners and other obligated parties purchase credits from the epa to meet our obligations. tax incentives and other subsidies have also made renewable fuels more competitive with refined products than they otherwise would have been, which may further reduce refined product margins. the epa tier 3 gasoline rulemaking could potentially lower the allowable sulfur level in gasoline, but it may also lower the reid vapor pressure, and the allowable benzene, aromatics and olefins content of gasoline, while possibly increasing octane requirements. we anticipate a proposed rule will be issued in 2013 and plan to participate in the public comment process. we have in the past owned or operated, and currently own and operate, convenience stores and other locations with usts in various states. the operation of usts poses risks, including soil and groundwater contamination, at our previously or currently operated locations. such contamination could result in substantial cleanup costs, fines or civil liabilities. we have in the past and will continue to dispose of various wastes at lawful disposal sites. environmental laws, including cercla, and similar state laws can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup on any responsible party, without regard to negligence or fault, and impose liability on us for the conduct of others or conditions others have caused, or for our acts that complied with all applicable requirements when performed. any failure by us to comply with existing or future laws or regulations could result in the imposition of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, injunctions limiting our operations, investigatory or remedial liabilities or impediments to construction of additional facilities or equipment. compliance with and changes in tax laws could materially and adversely impact our financial performance. we are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal and state income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales and use, payroll, franchise, withholding and property taxes. new tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations could result in increased expenditures by us for tax liabilities in the future and could materially and adversely impact our financial performance. additionally, many tax liabilities are subject to periodic audits by taxing authorities, and such audits could subject us to interest and penalties. competitors that produce their own supply of feedstocks, have more extensive retail outlets or have greater financial resources may have a competitive advantage. we do not produce any of our crude oil supply. some of our competitors, however, obtain a significant portion of their crude oil from their own exploration and production activities. competitors that have their own exploration and production activities may at times be able to offset losses from downstream operations with profits from upstream operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refined product margins or feedstock shortages. some of our competitors also have significantly greater financial and other resources than we have. those competitors may have a greater ability to respond to volatile industry or market conditions, such as shortages of crude oil or other feedstocks or intense price fluctuations. 30 table of contents the retail market is diverse and highly competitive, and severe competition could adversely impact our business. we also face strong competition in the market for the sale of retail gasoline, diesel and merchandise. our competitors include outlets owned or operated by fully integrated major oil companies or their dealers or jobbers, and other well-recognized national or regional retail outlets, often selling gasoline or merchandise at very competitive prices. several non-traditional retailers such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants are in the retail business. these non-traditional gasoline retailers have obtained a significant share of the transportation fuels market and we expect their market share to grow. because of their diversity, integration of operations, experienced management and greater resources, these companies may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions or levels of low or no profitability in the retail segment of the market. in addition, these retailers may use promotional pricing or discounts, both at the pump and in the store, to encourage in-store merchandise sales. these activities by our competitors could pressure us to offer similar discounts, adversely affecting our profit margins. additionally, the loss of market share by our convenience stores to these and other retailers relating to either gasoline or merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. we do not insure against all such potential losses, and, therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected liabilities and increased costs. our operations are subject to business interruption due to scheduled refinery turnarounds and to unplanned events such as explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents or unplanned maintenance, severe weather and labor disputes. for example, our pipelines provide a nearly-exclusive form of transportation of crude oil to, or refined products from, some of our refineries. in such instances, a prolonged interruption in service of such a pipeline could materially and adversely affect the operations, profitability and cash flows of the connected refinery. our operations could result in serious personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property and equipment, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us. damages resulting from a catastrophic occurrence involving us or any of our assets or operations may result in our being named as a defendant in one or more lawsuits asserting potentially substantial claims or in our being assessed potentially substantial fines by governmental authorities. in addition, our information technology systems and network infrastructure are subject to unauthorized access or attack, which could result in the loss of sensitive business information, systems interruptions or the disruption of our business operations. to protect against such attempts of unauthorized access or attack, we have implemented infrastructure protection technologies and disaster recovery plans. the level of protection and disaster recovery capability varies from site to site, and there can be no guarantee such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be totally effective. we maintain insurance coverage in amounts we believe to be prudent against many, but not all, potential liabilities arising from operating hazards. uninsured liabilities arising from operating hazards could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. historically, we also have maintained insurance coverage for physical damage and resulting business interruption to our major facilities, with significant self-insured retentions. in the future, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the types and amounts we desire at reasonable rates. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance coverage have increased substantially and could escalate further. certain insurance coverage could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. for example, due to hurricane activity in recent years, the availability of insurance coverage for our facilities for windstorms in the gulf of mexico region has been reduced. 31 table of contents we are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil and refined products. we utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil and refined products to and from our refineries. in addition to our own operational risks discussed above, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations or third-party actions. a prolonged disruption of the ability of a pipeline or vessels to transport crude oil or refined product to or from one or more of our refineries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if foreign ownership of our stock exceeds certain levels, we could be prohibited from operating inland river vessels, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the shipping act of 1916 and merchant marine act of 1920, which we refer to collectively as the maritime laws, generally require that vessels engaged in u.s. coastwise trade be owned by u.s. citizens. among other requirements to establish citizenship, corporations that own such vessels must be owned at least 75% by u.s. citizens. if we fail to maintain compliance with the maritime laws, we would be prohibited from operating vessels in the u.s. inland waters. such a prohibition could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may incur losses to our business as a result of our forward-contract activities and derivative transactions. we currently use commodity derivative instruments and we expect to enter into these types of transactions in the future. a failure of a futures commission merchant or counterparty to perform would affect these transactions. to the extent the instruments we utilize to manage these exposures are not effective, we may incur losses related to the ineffective portion of the derivative transaction or costs related to moving the derivative positions to another futures commission merchant or counterparty once a failure has occurred. we have substantial debt obligations, therefore our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed by a deterioration of our credit profile, a decrease in debt capacity or unsecured commercial credit available to us, or by factors adversely affecting credit markets generally. on february 1, 2011, we completed the offering of senior notes aggregating $3.0 billion in principal amount. at december 31, 2012, our total debt obligations for borrowed money and capital lease obligations was $3.36 billion. we may incur substantial additional debt obligations in the future. our indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could have material adverse consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. 32 table of contents a decrease in our debt and commercial credit capacity, including unsecured credit extended by third-party suppliers, or a deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and/or limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. historic or current operations could subject us to significant legal liability or restrict our ability to operate. we currently are defending litigation and anticipate we will be required to defend new litigation in the future. our operations and those of our predecessors could expose us to litigation and civil claims by private plaintiffs for alleged damages related to contamination of the environment or personal injuries caused by releases of hazardous substances from our facilities, products liability, consumer credit or privacy laws, product pricing or antitrust laws or any other laws or regulations that apply to our operations. while an adverse outcome in most litigation matters would not be expected to be material to us, in class-action litigation large classes of plaintiffs may allege damages relating to extended periods of time or other alleged facts and circumstances that could increase the amount of potential damages. attorneys general and other government officials may pursue litigation in which they seek to recover civil damages from companies on behalf of a state or its citizens for a variety of claims, including violation of consumer protection and product pricing laws or natural resources damages. we are defending litigation of that type and anticipate that we will be required to defend new litigation of that type in the future. if we are not able to successfully defend such litigation, it may result in liability to our company that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we do not have insurance covering all of these potential liabilities. in addition to substantial liability, plaintiffs in litigation may also seek injunctive relief which, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a portion of our workforce is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. approximately 38 percent of our refining employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. the contracts for the hourly refinery workers at our detroit and texas city refineries are scheduled to expire in january 2014 and march 2015, respectively. the contracts for the hourly refinery workers at our canton, catlettsburg and galveston bay refineries are each scheduled to expire in january 2015. these contracts may be renewed at an increased cost to us or we may experience work stoppages as a result of labor disagreements. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a publicly traded master limited partnership, mplx, which may involve a greater exposure to legal liability than our historic business operations. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of mplx, a publicly traded master limited partnership. our control of the general partner of mplx may increase the possibility of claims of breach of fiduciary duties including claims of conflicts of interest related to mplx. any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. significant transactions, including the galveston bay refinery and related assets acquisition, are subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. any significant transaction, including the galveston bay refinery and related assets acquisition, involves potential risks, including, among other things: the validity of our assumptions about future synergies, revenues, capital expenditures and operating costs; an inability to successfully integrate any asset or businesses we acquire; 33 table of contents a decrease in our liquidity by using a portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity under our revolving credit agreement to finance transactions; a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance transactions; the assumption of unknown environmental and other liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; the diversion of management attention from other business concerns; and the incurrence of other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. risks relating to our spinoff from marathon oil we are subject to certain continuing contingent liabilities of marathon oil relating to taxes and other matters and to potential liabilities and temporary limitations pursuant to the tax sharing agreement we entered into with marathon oil that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. although the spinoff occurred in mid 2011, certain liabilities of marathon oil could become our obligations. for example, under the internal revenue code of 1986 (the code ) and related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the spinoff is jointly and severally liable for the federal income tax liability of the entire marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. in connection with the spinoff, we entered into a tax sharing agreement with marathon oil that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group between us and marathon oil. however, if marathon oil is unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes. other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans as well as other contingent liabilities. also pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, following the spinoff we are responsible generally for all taxes attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries, whether accruing before, on or after the spinoff. we also agreed to be responsible for, and indemnify marathon oil with respect to, all taxes arising as a result of the spinoff (or certain internal restructuring transactions) failing to qualify as transactions under sections 368(a) and 355 of the code for u.s. federal income tax purposes to the extent such tax liability arises as a result of any breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or other obligation by us or certain affiliates made in connection with the issuance of the private letter ruling relating to the spinoff or in the tax sharing agreement. in addition, we agreed to indemnify marathon oil for specified tax-related liabilities associated with our 2005 acquisition of the minority interest in our refining joint venture from ashland inc. our indemnification obligations to marathon oil and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited or subject to any cap. if we are required to indemnify marathon oil and its subsidiaries and their respective officers and directors under the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. at this time, we cannot precisely quantify the amount of these liabilities that have been assumed pursuant to the tax sharing agreement and there can be no assurances as to their final amounts. the tax liabilities described in this paragraph could have a material adverse effect on our company. under the tax sharing agreement we could be limited for a period of time in our ability to pursue certain strategic or capital raising transactions. in addition, under some circumstances, we could be liable for any adverse tax consequences resulting from engaging in such transactions. even if the spinoff status as a tax-free distribution under section 355 of the code remains intact, the spinoff may result in significant u.s. federal income tax 34 table of contents liabilities to marathon oil under applicable provisions of the code if 50 percent or more of marathon oil stock or our stock is treated as having been acquired, directly or indirectly, by one or more persons as part of a plan that includes the spinoff. under those provisions, any acquisitions of marathon oil stock or our stock (or similar acquisitions), or any understanding, arrangement or substantial negotiations regarding an acquisition of marathon oil stock or our stock (or similar acquisitions), within two years before or after the spinoff are subject to special scrutiny. the process for determining whether an acquisition triggering those provisions has occurred is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case. if a direct or indirect acquisition of marathon oil stock or our stock resulted in a change in control as contemplated by those provisions, marathon oil (but not its stockholders) would recognize a taxable gain. under the tax sharing agreement, there are also restrictions on our ability to take actions that could cause the separation to fail to qualify as a tax-free distribution, and we are required to indemnify marathon oil against any such tax liabilities attributable to actions taken by or with respect to us or any of our affiliates, or any person that, after the spinoff, is our affiliate. we may be similarly liable if we breach certain other representations or covenants set forth in the tax sharing agreement. we are also subject to restrictions on our ability to issue shares of our stock without satisfying certain conditions within the tax sharing agreement. as a result of the foregoing, we may be unable to engage in strategic or capital raising transactions that our stockholders might consider favorable, or to structure potential transactions in the manner most favorable to us, without adverse tax consequences, if at all. the spinoff could be determined not to qualify as a tax-free transaction, and marathon oil and its stockholders could be subject to material amounts of taxes and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify marathon oil for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement. marathon oil received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (the irs ), to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of shares of mpc common stock in the spinoff qualifies as tax-free to marathon oil, us and marathon oil stockholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a) and related provisions of the code. if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then marathon oil would not be able to continue to rely on the ruling. we are not aware of any facts or circumstances that would cause the assumptions or representations that were relied on in the private letter ruling to be inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect. if, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling, the spinoff were determined not to qualify under section 355 of the code, marathon oil would be subject to tax as if it had sold its shares of common stock of our company in a taxable sale for their fair market value and would recognize a taxable gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of such shares over its tax basis in such shares. with respect to taxes and other liabilities that could be imposed on marathon oil in connection with the spinoff (and certain related transactions) as a result of a final determination that is inconsistent with the anticipated tax consequences as set forth in the private letter ruling, we would be liable to marathon oil under the tax sharing agreement for any such taxes or liabilities attributable to actions taken by or with respect to us, any of our affiliates, or any person that, after the spinoff, is our affiliate. we may be similarly liable if we breach specified representations or covenants set forth in the tax sharing agreement. if we are required to indemnify marathon oil for taxes incurred as a result of the spinoff (or certain related transactions) being taxable to marathon oil, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have potential liabilities pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement we entered into with marathon oil in connection with the spinoff that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in connection with the spinoff, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with marathon oil that provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions that were required to affect the spinoff, certain conditions to the spinoff and provisions governing the relationship between our company and marathon 35 table of contents oil with respect to and resulting from the spinoff. among other things, the separation and distribution agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our downstream business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the spinoff, as well as certain obligations of marathon oil assumed by us. our obligations to indemnify marathon oil under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement could subject us to substantial liabilities. marathon oil also agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. however, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities retained by marathon oil and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from marathon oil will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, that marathon oil will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations or that marathon oil insurers will cover us for liabilities associated with occurrences prior to the spinoff. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from marathon oil or it insurers any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. if marathon oil is unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations, the underlying liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks relating to ownership of our common stock provisions in our corporate governance documents could operate to delay or prevent a change in control of our company, dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our capital stock or affect its liquidity. the existence of some provisions within our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us that a stockholder may consider favorable. these include provisions: providing that our board of directors fixes the number of members of the board; providing for the division of our board of directors into three classes with staggered terms; providing that only our board of directors may fill board vacancies; limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring stockholder action to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; establishing supermajority vote requirements for certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and stockholder proposals for amendments to our amended and restated bylaws; providing that our directors may only be removed for cause; authorizing a large number of shares of common stock that are not yet issued, which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of our management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us; and authorizing the issuance of blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt. we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors time 36 table of contents to assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. however, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of us and our stockholders. our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. the terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. for example, we could grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our board of directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock. finally, to facilitate compliance with the maritime laws, our restated certificate of incorporation limits the aggregate percentage ownership by non-u.s. citizens of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock to 23 percent of the outstanding shares. we may prohibit transfers that would cause ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock by non-u.s. citizens to exceed 23 percent. our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to effect any and all measures necessary or desirable to monitor and limit foreign ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock. these limitations could have an adverse impact on the liquidity of the market for our common stock if holders are unable to transfer shares to non-u.s. citizens due to the limitations on ownership by non-u.s. citizens. any such limitation on the liquidity of the market for our common stock could adversely impact the market price of our common stock. 37 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 73 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, includes forward-looking statements. you can identify our forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, goal, intend, plan, predict, project, seek, target, could, may, should or would or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. in accordance with safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to, or statements that are subject to risks, contingencies or uncertainties that relate to: future levels of revenues, refining and marketing gross margins, retail gasoline and distillate gross margins, merchandise margins, income from operations, net income or earnings per share; anticipated volumes of feedstock, throughput, sales or shipments of refined products; anticipated levels of regional, national and worldwide prices of crude oil and refined products; anticipated levels of crude oil and refined product inventories; future levels of capital, environmental or maintenance expenditures, general and administrative and other expenses; the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital or maintenance projects; expectations regarding the acquisition or divestiture of assets; our share repurchase program, including the timing and amounts of any common stock repurchases; the effect of restructuring or reorganization of business components; the potential effects of judicial or other proceedings on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; and the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, or federal, foreign, state or local regulatory authorities, or plaintiffs in litigation. we have based our forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and our company. we caution that these statements are not guarantees of future performance and you should not rely unduly on them, as they involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that we cannot predict. in addition, we have based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. while our management considers these assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. accordingly, our actual results may differ materially from the future performance that we have expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements. differences between actual results and any future performance suggested in our forward-looking statements could result from a variety of factors, including the following: changes in general economic, market or business conditions; domestic and foreign supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks; the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to agree on and to influence crude oil price and production controls; 1 table of contents domestic and foreign supplies of refined products such as gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, home heating oil and petrochemicals; foreign imports of refined products; refining industry overcapacity or under capacity; changes in the cost or availability of third-party vessels, pipelines and other means of transportation for crude oil, feedstocks and refined products; the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels and alternative-fuel vehicles and laws mandating such fuels or vehicles; fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products, including seasonal fluctuations; political and economic conditions in nations that consume refined products, including the united states, and in crude oil producing regions, including the middle east, africa, canada and south america; actions taken by our competitors, including pricing adjustments, expansion of retail activities, and the expansion and retirement of refining capacity in response to market conditions; changes in fuel and utility costs for our facilities; failure to realize the benefits projected for capital projects, or cost overruns associated with such projects; the ability to successfully implement new assets and growth opportunities; accidents or other unscheduled shutdowns affecting our refineries, machinery, pipelines or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers; unusual weather conditions and natural disasters, which can unforeseeably affect the price or availability of crude oil and other feedstocks and refined products; acts of war, terrorism or civil unrest that could impair our ability to produce or transport refined products or receive feedstocks; legislative or regulatory action, which may adversely affect our business or operations; rulings, judgments or settlements and related expenses in litigation or other legal, tax or regulatory matters, including unexpected environmental remediation costs, in excess of any reserves or insurance coverage; labor and material shortages; the maintenance of satisfactory relationships with labor unions and joint venture partners; the ability and willingness of parties with whom we have material relationships to perform their obligations to us; the market price of our common stock and its impact on our share repurchase program; changes in the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and trade credit, changes in the availability of unsecured credit and changes affecting the credit markets generally; and the other factors described in item 1a. risk factors. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements except to the extent required by applicable law. 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview marathon petroleum corporation ( mpc ) was incorporated in delaware on november 9, 2009 in connection with an internal restructuring of marathon oil corporation ( marathon oil ). on may 25, 2011, the marathon oil board of directors approved the spinoff of its refining, marketing &amp; transportation business ( rm&amp;t business ) into an independent, publicly traded company, mpc, through the distribution of mpc common stock to the stockholders of marathon oil common stock. in accordance with a separation and distribution agreement between marathon oil and mpc, the distribution of mpc common stock was made on june 30, 2011, with marathon oil stockholders receiving one share of mpc common stock for every two shares of marathon oil common stock held (the spinoff ). following the spinoff, marathon oil retained no ownership interest in mpc, and each company had separate public ownership, boards of directors and management. all subsidiaries and equity method investments not contributed by marathon oil to mpc remained with marathon oil and, together with marathon oil, are referred to as the marathon oil companies. on july 1, 2011, our common stock began trading regular-way on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) under the ticker symbol mpc . we are one of the largest independent petroleum product refiners, marketers and transporters in the united states. our operations consist of three business segments: refining &amp; marketing refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our seven refineries in the gulf coast and midwest regions of the united states (including the recently acquired galveston bay refinery), purchases ethanol and refined products for resale and distributes refined products through various means, including barges, terminals and trucks that we own or operate. we sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, to buyers on the spot market, to our speedway business segment and to dealers and jobbers who operate marathon &reg; retail outlets; speedway sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market in the midwest, primarily through speedway &reg; convenience stores; and pipeline transportation transports crude oil and other feedstocks to our refineries and other locations, delivers refined products to wholesale and retail market areas and includes the aggregated operations of mplx lp and mpc retained pipeline assets and investments. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk. 60 table of contents capital resources our intention is to maintain an investment grade credit profile. as of december 31, 2012, our liquidity totaled $7.86 billion consisting of: (in millions) december 31, 2012 cash and cash equivalents $ 4,860 revolving credit agreement (a) 2,000 trade receivables securitization facility 1,000 total $ 7,860 (a) excludes mplx revolving credit agreement and does not give effect to subsequent increase in capacity to $2.5 billion. as of december 31, 2012, we had no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding under our revolving credit agreement or our trade receivables securitization facility. because of the alternatives available to us, including internally generated cash flow and access to capital markets, we believe that our short-term and long-term liquidity is adequate to fund not only our current operations, but also our near-term and long-term funding requirements, including capital spending programs, the repurchase of shares of our common stock, dividend payments, defined benefit plan contributions, repayment of debt maturities and other amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies. on september 14, 2012, we entered into a five-year revolving credit agreement (the credit agreement ) with a syndicate of lenders and terminated our previous four-year revolving credit agreement. the credit agreement was amended on december 20, 2012 to increase the borrowing capacity by $500 million to a total of $2.5 billion. the commitment increase became effective on february 1, 2013 in conjunction with the acquisition of the galveston bay refinery and related assets. the credit agreement includes letter of credit issuing capacity of up to $2.0 billion and swingline loan capacity of up to $100 million. we may increase the borrowing capacity under the credit agreement by up to an additional $500 million, subject to certain conditions including the consent of the lenders whose commitments would be increased. in addition, we may request that the term of the credit agreement, which expires on september 14, 2017, be extended for up to two additional one-year periods. each such extension would be subject to the approval of lenders holding greater than 50 percent of the commitments then outstanding, and the commitment of any lender that does not consent to an extension of the maturity date will be terminated on the then-effective maturity date. the credit agreement contains representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and events of default that we consider usual and customary for an agreement of this type. the financial covenant included in the credit agreement requires us to maintain, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, a ratio of consolidated net debt (as defined in the credit agreement) to total capitalization (as defined in the credit agreement) of no greater than 0.65 to 1.00. as of december 31, 2012, we were in compliance with this debt covenant with a ratio of consolidated net debt to total capitalization of -0.1 to 1.00, as well as the other covenants contained in the credit agreement. in addition, the credit agreement includes limitations on the indebtedness of our subsidiaries, other than subsidiaries that guarantee our obligations under the credit agreement and our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to incur liens on property or assets or enter into certain transactions with affiliates. borrowings of revolving loans under the credit agreement bear interest at either (i) the sum of the adjusted libo rate (as defined in the credit agreement) and a margin ranging between 1.00 percent to 2.00 percent, depending on our credit ratings, or (ii) the sum of the alternate base rate (as defined in the credit agreement) and a margin ranging between zero percent to 1.00 percent, depending on our credit ratings. the credit agreement also provides for customary fees, including administrative agent fees, annual commitment fees ranging from 0.10 percent to 0.35 percent, depending on our credit ratings, on the unused portion, fees in respect to letters of credit and other fees. 61 table of contents on september 14, 2012, mplx operations llc, an affiliate of mpc and wholly-owned subsidiary of mplx, as the borrower, and mplx, as the parent guarantor, entered into a five-year revolving credit agreement ( mplx credit agreement ) with a syndicate of lenders. the mplx credit agreement became effective following mplx initial public offering and has an initial borrowing capacity of $500 million. mplx may increase the borrowing capacity under the mplx credit agreement by up to an additional $300 million, subject to certain conditions, including the consent of the lenders whose commitments would be increased. the mplx credit agreement includes letter of credit issuing capacity of up to $250 million and swingline loan capacity of up to $50 million. mplx may, subject to certain conditions, request that the term of the mplx credit agreement, which expires on october 31, 2017, be extended for up to two additional one-year periods. each such extension would be subject to the approval of lenders holding greater than 50 percent of the commitments then outstanding, and the commitment of any lender that does not consent to an extension of the maturity date will be terminated on the then-effective maturity date. at december 31, 2012, mplx had no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding under this agreement. the mplx credit agreement contains representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and events of default that we consider usual and customary for an agreement of that type. the financial covenant included in the mplx credit agreement requires mplx to maintain a ratio of consolidated total debt (as defined in the mplx credit agreement) as of the end of each fiscal quarter to consolidated ebitda (as defined in the mplx credit agreement) for the prior four fiscal quarters of not greater than 5.0 to 1.0 (or 5.5 to 1.0 during the six-month period following certain acquisitions). as of december 31, 2012, mplx was in compliance with this debt covenant with a ratio of consolidated total debt to consolidated ebitda of 0.1 to 1.0, as well as the other covenants contained in the mplx credit agreement. borrowings of revolving loans under the mplx credit agreement bear interest at either (i) the sum of the adjusted libo rate (as defined in the mplx credit agreement) and a margin ranging from 1.00 percent to 2.00 percent or (ii) the sum of the alternate base rate (as defined in the mplx credit agreement) and a margin ranging from zero percent to 1.00 percent. prior to mplx receiving a rating from standard &amp; poor rating group or moody investor service, inc. for its index debt (as defined in the mplx credit agreement), the margin that is added to the applicable interest rate is based on mplx ratio of consolidated total debt as of the end of each fiscal quarter to consolidated ebitda for the prior four fiscal quarters. once mplx receives a rating, the margin added to the applicable interest rate will be based on mplx credit ratings. the mplx credit agreement also provides for customary fees, including administrative agent fees, commitment fees ranging from 0.10 percent to 0.35 percent of the unused portion, depending on mplx ratio of consolidated total debt to consolidated ebitda for the prior four fiscal quarters prior to the rating date, or mplx credit ratings subsequent to the rating date, fronting and issuance fees in respect to letters of credit and other fees. as of december 31, 2012, the credit ratings on our senior unsecured debt were at or above investment grade level as follows. rating agency rating moody baa2 (stable outlook) standard &amp; poor bbb (stable outlook) the ratings reflect the respective views of the rating agencies. although it is our intention to maintain a credit profile that supports an investment grade rating, there is no assurance that these ratings will continue for any given period of time. the ratings may be revised or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies if, in their respective judgments, circumstances so warrant. neither our credit agreement, the mplx credit agreement nor our trade receivables securitization facility contain credit rating triggers that would result in the acceleration of interest, principal or other payments in the event that our credit ratings are downgraded. however, any downgrades of our senior unsecured debt to below investment grade ratings would increase the applicable interest rates, yields and other fees payable under our 62 table of contents credit agreement, the mplx credit agreement and trade receivables securitization facility. in addition, a downgrade of our senior unsecured debt rating to below investment grade levels could, under certain circumstances, decrease the amount of trade receivables that are eligible to be sold under our trade receivables securitization facility and could potentially impact our ability to purchase crude oil on an unsecured basis. debt-to-total-capital ratio our debt-to-total capital ratio (total debt to total debt-plus-equity) was 22 percent and 26 percent at december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. december 31, (in millions) 2012 2011 long-term debt due within one year $ 19 $ 15 long-term debt 3,342 3,292 total debt $ 3,361 $ 3,307 calculation of debt-to-total capital ratio: total debt $ 3,361 $ 3,307 plus equity 12,105 9,505 total debt plus equity $ 15,466 $ 12,812 debt-to-total capital ratio 22% 26% capital requirements we have a capital and investment budget for 2013 of $1.62 billion, excluding capitalized interest and the purchase price for the galveston bay refinery and related assets. additional details related to the 2013 capital and investment budget are discussed in the outlook section below. on february 1, 2013, we acquired the galveston bay refinery and related assets for approximately $598 million plus approximately $900 million for inventory. pursuant to the purchase and sale agreement, we may also be required to pay bp a contingent earnout of up to an additional $700 million over six years, subject to certain conditions. this acquisition was paid for with cash on hand. we plan to make contributions of approximately $160 million to our funded pension plans in 2013. on january 30, 2013, our board of directors approved a 35 cents per share dividend, payable march 11, 2013 to stockholders of record at the close of business on february 20, 2013. on february 1, 2012, we announced that our board of directors authorized a share repurchase plan, enabling us to purchase up to $2.0 billion of our common stock. on january 30, 2013, our board of directors approved an additional $2.0 billion share repurchase authorization and extended the unused amounts remaining on the february 1, 2012 authorization, with both authorizations ending december 2014. after the effects of the asr programs described below, $2.65 billion of the $4.0 billion total share repurchase authorization is available. we may utilize various methods to effect the repurchases, which could include open market purchases, negotiated block transactions, asrs or open market solicitations for shares, some of which may be effected through rule 10b5-1 plans. the timing of future repurchases, if any, will depend upon several factors, including market and business conditions, and such repurchases may be discontinued at any time. on february 3, 2012, we entered into an $850 million asr program with a major financial institution as part of this authorization. under this asr program, we received 20,357,380 shares of our common stock in 2012, resulting in an average per share cost for these shares of $41.75. 63 table of contents on november 5, 2012, we entered into a second asr program for $500 million. under this asr program, we received 7,403,294 shares of our common stock in 2012 and 870,947 shares in february 2013, for a total of 8,274,241 repurchased shares, which concluded this asr program. upon final settlement, the average per share cost for all shares purchased under this asr program was $60.43. these asr programs are accounted for as treasury stock purchase transactions, reducing the weighted average number of basic and diluted common shares outstanding by the repurchased shares, and as forward contracts indexed to our common stock. the above discussion of the share repurchase authorization includes forward-looking statements. factors that could affect the share repurchase plan and its timing include, but are not limited to business conditions, availability of liquidity, and the market price of our common stock. these factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. contractual cash obligations the table below provides aggregated information on our consolidated obligations to make future payments under existing contracts as of december 31, 2012. the contractual obligations detailed below do not include our contractual obligations to mplx under various fee-based commercial agreements as these transactions are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. the contractual obligations detailed below include amounts paid at closing for the galveston bay refinery and related assets, but do not include obligations assumed upon closing. (in millions) total 2013 2014-2015 2016-2017 later years long-term debt (a) $ 5,878 $ 169 $ 332 $ 1,039 $ 4,338 capital lease obligations 546 44 89 87 326 operating lease obligations 612 151 254 129 78 purchase obligations: (b) crude oil, feedstock, refined product and renewable fuel contracts (c)(d) 11,545 10,302 765 395 83 transportation and related contracts 1,700 144 267 315 974 contracts to acquire property, plant and equipment (e)(f) 1,391 834 410 147 - service and materials contracts (g) 1,315 355 339 216 405 total purchase obligations 15,951 11,635 1,781 1,073 1,462 other long-term liabilities reported in the consolidated balance sheet (h) 1,101 247 274 144 436 total contractual cash obligations $ 24,088 $ 12,246 $ 2,730 $ 2,472 $ 6,640 (a) includes interest payments for our senior notes and commitment and administrative fees for our credit agreement, the mplx credit agreement and our trade receivables securitization facility. (b) includes both short- and long-term purchases obligations. 64 table of contents (c) these contracts include variable price arrangements with estimated prices to be paid primarily based on current market conditions. we are in the process of implementing systems that will allow us to estimate prices based on futures curves, which as of december 31, 2012, has been implemented for contracts with purchase obligations of $1.78 billion. (d) includes the approximate value of inventories included in the purchase of the galveston bay refinery and related assets, which was completed on february 1, 2013. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. pension and other postretirement benefit obligations accounting for pension and other postretirement benefit obligations involves numerous assumptions, the most significant of which relate to the following: the discount rate for measuring the present value of future plan obligations; the expected long-term return on plan assets; the rate of future increases in compensation levels; and health care cost projections. we develop our demographics and utilize the work of third-party actuaries to assist in the measurement of these obligations. we have selected different discount rates for our funded pension plans and our unfunded retiree health care plans due to the different projected benefit payment patterns. the selected rates are compared to various similar bond indexes for reasonableness. in determining the assumed discount rates, we use our third-party actuary discount rate model. this model calculates an equivalent single discount rate for the projected benefit plan cash flows using a yield curve derived from aa bond yields. the yield curve represents a series of annualized individual spot discount rates from 0.5 to 99 years. the bonds used are rated aa or higher by a recognized rating agency and only non-callable bonds are included. outlier bonds that have a yield to maturity that deviate significantly from the average yield within each maturity grouping are not included. each issue is required to have at least $250 million par value outstanding. of the assumptions used to measure the year-end obligations and estimated annual net periodic benefit cost, the discount rate has the most significant effect on the periodic benefit cost reported for the plans. decreasing the discount rates of 3.45 percent for our pension plans and 4.05 percent for our other postretirement benefit plans by 0.25 percent would increase pension obligations and other postretirement benefit plan obligations by $85 million and $21 million, respectively, and would increase defined benefit pension expense and other postretirement benefit plan expense by $6 million and $2 million, respectively. the long-term asset rate of return assumption considers the asset mix of the plans (currently targeted at approximately 75 percent equity securities and 25 percent fixed income securities for the funded pension plans), past performance and other factors. certain components of the asset mix are modeled with various assumptions regarding inflation and returns. in addition, our long-term asset rate of return assumption is compared to those of other companies and to historical returns for reasonableness. after evaluating activity in the capital markets, we reduced the asset rate of return from 8.50 percent to 7.50 percent effective for 2012. we have also used the 7.50 percent long-term rate of return to determine our 2013 defined benefit pension expense. decreasing the 7.50 percent asset rate of return assumption by 0.25 percent would increase our defined benefit pension expense by $4 million. compensation change assumptions are based on historical experience, anticipated future management actions and demographics of the benefit plans. health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook and an assessment of likely long-term trends. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk general we are exposed to market risks related to the volatility of crude oil and refined product prices. we employ various strategies, including the use of commodity derivative instruments, to hedge the risks related to these price fluctuations. we are also exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. as of december 31, 2012, we did not have any financial derivative instruments to hedge the risks related to interest rate fluctuations; however, we have used them in the past and we continually monitor the market and our exposure and may enter into these agreements again in the future. we are at risk for changes in fair value of all of our derivative instruments; however, such risk should be mitigated by price or rate changes related to the underlying commodity or financial transaction. we believe that our use of derivative instruments, along with our risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose us to material adverse consequences. while the use of derivative instruments could materially affect our results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods, we believe that the use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity. seerisk factors 24 risk factors, item 3. legal proceedings, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, includes forward-looking statements. you can identify our forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, goal, intend, plan, predict, project, seek, target, could, may, should, will, would or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. in accordance with safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to, or statements that are subject to risks, contingencies or uncertainties that relate to: future levels of revenues, refining and marketing gross margins, operating costs, retail gasoline and distillate gross margins, merchandise margins, income from operations, net income or earnings per share; anticipated volumes of feedstock, throughput, sales or shipments of refined products; anticipated levels of regional, national and worldwide prices of crude oil and refined products; anticipated levels of crude oil and refined product inventories; future levels of capital, environmental or maintenance expenditures, general and administrative and other expenses; the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital or maintenance projects; business strategies, growth opportunities and expected investments, including planned equity investments in pipeline projects; expectations regarding the acquisition or divestiture of assets; our share repurchase authorizations, including the timing and amounts of any common stock repurchases; the effect of restructuring or reorganization of business components; the potential effects of judicial or other proceedings on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; and the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, or federal, foreign, state or local regulatory authorities, or plaintiffs in litigation. we have based our forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and our company. we caution that these statements are not guarantees of future performance, and you should not rely unduly on them, as they involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that we cannot predict. in addition, we have based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. while our management considers these assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. accordingly, our actual results may differ materially from the future performance that we have expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements. differences between actual results and any future performance suggested in our forward-looking statements could result from a variety of factors, including the following: volatility or degradation in general economic, market, industry or business conditions; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks; the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to agree on and to influence crude oil price and production controls; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of refined products such as gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, home heating oil and petrochemicals; foreign imports of refined products; refining industry overcapacity or under capacity; changes in the cost or availability of third-party vessels, pipelines and other means of transportation for crude oil, feedstocks and refined products; the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels and alternative-fuel vehicles and laws mandating such fuels or vehicles; fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products, including seasonal fluctuations; political and economic conditions in nations that consume refined products, including the united states, and in crude oil producing regions, including the middle east, africa, canada and south america; actions taken by our competitors, including pricing adjustments, expansion of retail activities, and the expansion and retirement of refining capacity in response to market conditions; completion of pipeline projects within the u.s.; changes in fuel and utility costs for our facilities; failure to realize the benefits projected for capital projects, or cost overruns associated with such projects; 1 table of contents the ability to successfully implement new assets and growth opportunities; the ability to realize the strategic benefits of joint venture opportunities; accidents or other unscheduled shutdowns affecting our refineries, machinery, pipelines or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers; unusual weather conditions and natural disasters, which can unforeseeably affect the price or availability of crude oil and other feedstocks and refined products; acts of war, terrorism or civil unrest that could impair our ability to produce or transport refined products or receive feedstocks; state and federal environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, including the cost of compliance with the renewable fuel standard; rulings, judgments or settlements and related expenses in litigation or other legal, tax or regulatory matters, including unexpected environmental remediation costs, in excess of any reserves or insurance coverage; labor and material shortages; the maintenance of satisfactory relationships with labor unions and joint venture partners; the ability and willingness of parties with whom we have material relationships to perform their obligations to us; the market price of our common stock and its impact on our share repurchase authorizations; changes in the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and trade credit, changes in the availability of unsecured credit and changes affecting the credit markets generally; and the other factors described in item 1a. risk factors. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements except to the extent required by applicable law. 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview marathon petroleum corporation ( mpc ) was incorporated in delaware on november 9, 2009. we have 126 years of experience in the energy business with roots tracing back to the formation of the ohio oil company in 1887. we are one of the largest independent petroleum product refiners, marketers and transporters in the united states. our operations consist of three business segments: refining &amp; marketing refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our seven refineries in the gulf coast and midwest regions of the united states, purchases ethanol and refined products for resale and distributes refined products through various means, including barges, terminals and trucks that we own or operate. we sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, buyers on the spot market, our speedway business segment and to independent entrepreneurs who operate marathon retail outlets; speedway sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market in the midwest, primarily through speedway convenience stores; and pipeline transportation transports crude oil and other feedstocks to our refineries and other locations, delivers refined products to wholesale and retail market areas and includes the aggregated operations of mplx lp and mpc's retained pipeline assets and investments. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 10 for operating segment and geographic financial information, which is incorporated herein by reference. corporate history and structure mpc was incorporated in 2009 in connection with an internal restructuring of marathon oil corporation ( marathon oil ). on may 25, 2011, the marathon oil board of directors approved the spinoff of its refining, marketing &amp; transportation business ( rm&amp;t business ) into an independent, publicly traded company, mpc, through the distribution of mpc common stock to the stockholders of marathon oil common stock. in accordance with a separation and distribution agreement between marathon oil and mpc, the distribution of mpc common stock was made on june 30, 2011, with marathon oil stockholders receiving one share of mpc common stock for every two shares of marathon oil common stock held (the spinoff ). following the spinoff, marathon oil retained no ownership interest in mpc, and each company had separate public ownership, boards of directors and management. all subsidiaries and equity method investments not contributed by marathon oil to mpc remained with marathon oil and, together with marathon oil, are referred to as the marathon oil companies. on july 1, 2011, our common stock began trading regular-way on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) under the ticker symbol mpc. recent developments on february 1, 2013, we acquired from bp products north america inc. and bp pipelines (north america) inc. (collectively, bp ) the 451,000 barrel per calendar day refinery in texas city, texas, three intrastate natural gas liquid pipelines originating at the refinery, four light product terminals, branded-jobber marketing contract assignments for the supply of approximately 1,200 branded sites, a 1,040 megawatt electric cogeneration facility and a 50 thousand barrels per day ("mbpd") allocation of space on the colonial pipeline. we refer to these assets as the galveston bay refinery and related assets. the operating statistics included in this section do not include these assets for time periods prior to the acquisition. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 5 for additional information on the acquisition of these assets. on august 1, 2013 , we acquired from mitsui &amp; co. (u.s.a.), inc. its interests in three ethanol companies for $75 million . under the purchase agreement, we acquired an additional 24 percent interest in the andersons clymers ethanol llc ("tace"), bringing our ownership interest to 60 percent ; a 34 percent interest in the andersons ethanol investment llc ("taei"), which holds a 50 percent ownership in the andersons marathon ethanol llc ("tame"), bringing our direct and indirect ownership interest in tame to 67 percent ; and a 40 percent interest in the andersons albion ethanol llc ("taae"), which owns an ethanol production facility in albion, michigan. on october 1, 2013, our ownership interest in taae increased to 43 percent as a result of taae acquiring one of the owner's interest. we hold a noncontrolling interest in each of these entities and account for them using the equity method of accounting since the minority owners have substantive participating rights. 3 table of contents in 2012, we formed mplx lp ( mplx ), a master limited partnership, to own, operate, develop and acquire pipelines and other midstream assets related to the transportation and storage of crude oil, refined products and other hydrocarbon-based products. on october 31, 2012, mplx completed its initial public offering of 19,895,000 common units, which represented the sale by us of a 26.4 percent interest in mplx. we own a 73.6 percent interest in mplx, including the two percent general partner interest, and we consolidate this entity for financial reporting purposes since we have a controlling financial interest. headquartered in findlay, ohio, mplx's assets as of december 31, 2013 consisted of a 56 percent general partner interest in mplx pipe line holdings lp ( pipe line holdings ), which owns a network of common carrier crude oil and product pipeline systems and associated storage assets in the midwest and gulf coast regions of the united states, and a 100 percent interest in a butane storage cavern in west virginia. we own the remaining 44 percent limited partner interest in pipe line holdings. the operating statistics in this section include 100 percent of these assets for all time periods presented. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 4 for additional information on mplx. on february 27, 2014, we announced that an additional 13 percent of pipe line holdings will be sold to mplx effective on march 1, 2014 for $310 million . subsequent to this transaction, mplx will own a 69 percent general partner interest in pipe line holdings and we will own a 31 percent limited partner interest. mplx intends to finance this transaction with $40 million of cash on-hand and by borrowing $270 million on its revolving credit agreement. our competitive strengths high quality asset base we believe we are the largest crude oil refiner in the midwest and the fourth largest in the united states based on crude oil refining capacity. we own a seven -plant refinery network, with approximately 1.7 million barrels per calendar day ( mmbpcd ) of crude oil throughput capacity. our refineries process a wide range of crude oils, including heavy and sour crude oils, which can generally be purchased at a discount to sweet crude oil, and produce transportation fuels such as gasoline and distillates, specialty chemicals and other refined products. strategic location the geographic locations of our refineries and our extensive midstream distribution system provide us with strategic advantages. located in petroleum administration for defense district ( padd ) ii and padd iii, which consist of states in the midwest and the gulf coast regions of the united states, our refineries have the ability to procure crude oil from a variety of supply sources, including domestic, canadian and other foreign sources, which provides us with flexibility to optimize crude supply costs. for example, geographic proximity to various united states shale oil regions and canadian crude oil supply sources allows our refineries access to price-advantaged crude oils and lower transportation costs than certain of our competitors. our refinery locations and midstream distribution system also allow us to access export markets and to serve a broad range of key end-user markets across the united states quickly and cost-effectively. 4 table of contents * as of december 31, 2013 extensive midstream distribution networks our assets give us extensive flexibility and optionality to respond promptly to dynamic market conditions, including weather-related and marketplace disruptions. we believe the relative scale of our transportation and distribution assets and operations distinguishes us from other refining and marketing companies. we currently own, lease or have ownership interests in approximately 8,300 miles of crude oil and products pipelines. through our ownership interests in mplx and pipe line holdings, we are one of the largest petroleum pipeline companies in the united states on the basis of total volume delivered. we also own one of the largest private domestic fleets of inland petroleum product barges and one of the largest terminal operations in the united states, as well as trucking and rail assets. we operate this system in coordination with our refining and marketing network, which enables us to optimize feedstock and raw material supplies and refined product distribution, and further allows for important economies of scale across our system. attractive growth opportunities we believe we have attractive growth opportunities. over the next three years, we expect to invest approximately $630 million in midstream assets that are part of our refining &amp; marketing segment, approximately $2.3 billion in our pipeline transportation segment and approximately $925 million to grow our speedway segment. our refining &amp; marketing segment's midstream investments include increasing our capacity to process condensate from the utica shale region at our canton, ohio 5 table of contents and catlettsburg, kentucky refineries. our pipeline transportation segment investments include the opportunity to acquire equity interests in two pipeline projects that will transport crude oil from the growing north american hydrocarbon production to our refineries and building a pipeline to connect the utica shale production to our canton refinery. our planned speedway segment investments include constructing new convenience stores and rebuilding existing locations. we also anticipate acquiring high quality stores through opportunistic acquisitions. part of speedway's growth strategy is to expand into new contiguous markets, including western pennsylvania and tennessee. in addition, we have projects at our refineries to enhance refining margins, expand our export capacity, increase our distillate production and increase our capacity to process condensates and light crude oils. general partner and sponsor of mplx our investment in mplx provides us an efficient vehicle to invest in organic projects and pursue acquisitions of midstream assets. mplx's significant liquidity and borrowing capacity provides us a strong foundation to execute our strategy for growing our midstream logistics business. our role as the general partner allows us to maintain strategic control of the assets so we can continue to optimize our refinery feedstock and distribution networks. we have an extensive portfolio of assets that can potentially be sold to mplx, providing mplx with a competitive advantage. as of december 31, 2013 , these assets included: the remaining 44 percent limited partner interest in pipe line holdings, of which an additional 13 percent is approved to be sold to mplx effective on march 1, 2014; approximately 5,400 miles of crude oil and products pipeline that mpc owns, leases or has ownership interest; 64 owned and operated light product terminals with approximately 21 million barrels of storage capacity and 194 loading lanes; 19 owned and operated asphalt terminals with approximately 4 million barrels of storage capacity and 68 loading lanes; one leased and two non-operated, partially-owned light product terminals; 18 owned or leased inland towboats and 200 owned or leased inland barges; 2,165 owned or leased railcars; 59 million barrels of tank storage capacity at our refineries; 25 rail and 24 truck loading racks at our refineries; and 7 owned and 11 non-owned docks at our refineries. we broadly estimate these assets can generate annual earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of $800 million. we continue to focus resources on growing this portfolio of assets, including investments in the sandpiper and southern access extension pipeline projects. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional information on these pipeline investments. future asset sales to mplx, along with sales of our limited partner interests in mplx, will be driven by our desired distributable cash flow growth profile as well as strategic needs as they develop over time, including generating funds to support our base dividend, share repurchases and investment activities. competitively positioned marketing operations we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers within our market area. we have two strong retail brands: speedway and marathon . we believe our 1,478 speedway convenience stores, which we operate through a wholly-owned subsidiary, speedway llc, comprise the fourth largest chain of company-owned and operated retail gasoline and convenience stores in the united states. the marathon brand is an established motor fuel brand in the midwest and southeast regions of the united states, and was available through approximately 5,200 retail outlets operated by independent entrepreneurs in 18 states as of december 31, 2013 . in addition, as part of the acquisition of the galveston bay refinery and related assets, we have retail marketing contracts where we continue to convert retail outlets to the marathon brand . we believe our distribution system allows us to maximize the sales value of our products and minimize cost. 6 table of contents established track record of profitability and diversified income stream we have demonstrated an ability to achieve positive financial results throughout all stages of the refining cycle. we believe our business mix and strategies position us well to continue to achieve competitive financial results. income generated by our speedway and pipeline transportation segments is less sensitive to business cycles while our refining &amp; marketing segment enables us to generate significant income and cash flow when market conditions are more favorable. strong financial position as of december 31, 2013 , we had $2.29 billion in cash and cash equivalents and $3.8 billion in unused committed borrowing facilities, excluding mplx's credit facility. we also had $3.40 billion of debt at year-end, which represented only 23 percent of our total capitalization. this combination of strong liquidity and manageable leverage provides financial flexibility and allows us to fund our growth projects and to pursue our business strategies. our business strategies achieve and maintain top-tier safety and environmental performance we remain committed to operating our assets in a safe and reliable manner and targeting continuous improvement in our safety record across all of our operations. we have a history of safe and reliable operations, which was demonstrated again in 2013 with a strong performance compared to the industry average. four of our refineries have earned designation as a u.s. occupational safety and health administration ( osha ) voluntary protection program ( vpp ) star site. in addition, we remain committed to environmental stewardship by continuing to improve the efficiency of our operations while proactively meeting our regulatory requirements. for example, since taking over the galveston bay refinery, we have improved environmental performance by reducing designated environmental incidents by approximately 80 percent compared to 2012. grow higher-valued, stable cash flow businesses we intend to allocate significantly more capital to grow our midstream and retail businesses, which typically have more predictable and stable income and cash flows compared to our refining operations. we believe investors assign a higher value to businesses with stable cash flows. over the next three years, we expect to invest approximately $630 million in midstream assets that are part of our refining &amp; marketing segment, approximately $2.3 billion in our pipeline transportation segment and approximately $925 million on growing our speedway segment. by contrast, our total investment from 2011 through 2013 was $229 million in midstream assets that are part of our refining &amp; marketing segment, $566 million in our pipeline transportation segment and $800 million in our speedway segment. we expect there will be significant investments in infrastructure to connect growing north american crude oil production with existing refining assets and to move refined products to wholesale and retail marketing customers. we intend to aggressively participate in this infrastructure build-out and mplx will be the entity through which we expect to grow our midstream business. we intend to increase revenue on the mplx network of pipeline systems through higher utilization of existing assets, by capitalizing on organic investment opportunities that may arise from the growth of mpc's operations and from increased third-party activity in mplx's areas of operations. through mplx, we also plan to pursue acquisitions of midstream assets both within our existing geographic footprint and in new areas. we intend to grow speedway's sales and profitability by focusing on organic growth through constructing new stores, rebuilding old stores, acquiring high quality stores through opportunistic acquisitions and continuous improvement of existing operations. for example, we have identified numerous opportunities for new convenience stores or store rebuilds in our existing market. in addition, we began expanding speedway into new contiguous markets of western pennsylvania and tennessee in 2013 and are actively acquiring real estate in western pennsylvania and tennessee to be in a position to accelerate growth over the next several years. in addition, our industry-leading speedy rewards customer loyalty program, which has more than 3.7 million active members, provides us with a unique competitive advantage and opportunity to increase our speedway customer base with existing and new speedway locations. deliver top quartile refining performance our refineries are well positioned to benefit from the growing crude oil and condensate production in north america, including the bakken, eagle ford and utica shale regions, along with the canadian oil sands. we are also well positioned to export distillates, gasoline and other products as the demand from various markets, such as latin america and europe, continues to grow. 7 table of contents we intend to enhance our margins in the refining &amp; marketing segment by increasing our condensate and light crude oil processing capacity, growing our distillate production and expanding our exports. for example, we have projects underway to increase condensate processing capacity at our canton and catlettsburg refineries, to increase light crude oil processing capacity at our robinson, illinois refinery, to increase distillate production at our garyville, louisiana; galveston bay and robinson refineries and to expand the export capacity at our garyville and galveston bay refineries. in addition, we are evaluating a residual fuel hydrocracker project that we expect will increase garyville's ultra-low-sulfur diesel ("ulsd") production by 28 mbpd and lower feedstock costs. we are also evaluating three projects to increase distillate production at our galveston bay refinery. we will continue to evaluate opportunities to expand our existing asset base, with an emphasis on increasing distillate production and export capabilities and opportunities at our galveston bay refinery. sustain focus on shareholder returns we intend to continue our focus on the return of capital to shareholders in the form of a strong and growing base dividend, supplemented by share repurchases. we have increased our quarterly dividend by 110 percent since becoming a stand-alone company in june 2011 and our board of directors has authorized share repurchases totaling $6.0 billion . through open market purchases and two accelerated share repurchase ( asr ) programs, we repurchased 18 percent of our outstanding common shares since february 2012 for approximately $4.14 billion . after the effects of these repurchases, $1.86 billion of the $6.0 billion total authorization was available for future repurchases as of december 31, 2013 . increase assured sales volumes at our marathon brand and speedway locations we consider assured sales as those sales we make to marathon brand customers, our speedway operations and to our wholesale customers with whom we have required minimum volume sales contracts. we believe having assured sales brings ratability to our distribution systems, provides a solid base to enhance our overall supply reliability and allows us to efficiently and effectively optimize our operations between our refineries, our pipelines and our terminals. the marathon brand has been a consistent vehicle for sales volume growth in existing and contiguous markets. the acquisition of the galveston bay refinery and related assets provides us with opportunities to further expand our southeast market presence. as a result of this acquisition, we have retail marketing contracts where we continue to convert retail outlets to the marathon brand , which puts us in position to take advantage of opportunities with premier jobbers and to significantly expand our brand presence in the southeast. we also intend to grow speedway gasoline and distillate sales volumes through internal capital program growth projects and acquisitions that complement our existing store network, including the continuing expansion into pennsylvania and tennessee. utilize and enhance our high quality employee workforce we plan to utilize our high quality employee workforce by continuing to leverage our commercial skills. in addition, we plan to enhance our workforce through selective hiring practices and effective training programs on safety, environmental stewardship and other professional and technical skills. the above discussion contains forward-looking statements with respect to our competitive strengths and business strategies, including our expected investments, share repurchase authorizations, pursuit of potential acquisitions and other growth opportunities as well as the earnings potential of our midstream assets outside of mplx and the anticipated sale of an additional 13 percent interest in pipe line holdings to mplx. there can be no assurance that we will be successful, in whole or in part, in carrying out our business strategies, including our expected investments, share repurchase program or pursuit of potential acquisitions and other growth opportunities, or that our midstream assets outside of mplx will achieve expected earnings or that the anticipated sale of the 13 percent interest in pipe line holdings will occur. factors that could affect our investments include, but are not limited to, the actual amounts invested, which could differ materially from those estimated, and our success in making such investments. factors that could affect the share repurchase authorizations and the timing of any repurchases include, but are not limited to, business conditions, availability of liquidity and the market price of our common stock. factors that could affect the pursuit of potential acquisitions and other growth opportunities include, but are not limited to, our ability to implement and realize the benefits and synergies of our strategic initiatives, availability of liquidity, actions taken by competitors, regulatory approvals and operating performance. factors that could affect the earnings of our midstream assets outside of mplx include, but are not limited to, the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices and demand for crude oil, refined products, feedstocks or other hydrocarbon-based products and volatility in and/or degradation of market and industry conditions. factors that could affect the sale of an additional 13 percent interest in pipe line holdings to mplx include, but are not limited to, the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. these factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. for additional information on forward-looking statements and risks that can affect our business, see disclosures regarding forward-looking statements and item 1a. risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. 8 table of contents refining &amp; marketing refineries we currently own and operate seven refineries in the gulf coast and midwest regions of the united states with an aggregate crude oil refining capacity of 1,714 thousand barrels per calender day ("mbpcd"). during 2013 , our refineries processed 1,589 mbpd of crude oil and 213 mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. during 2012 , our refineries processed 1,195 mbpd of crude oil and 168 mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. the table below sets forth the location, crude oil refining capacity, tank storage capacity and number of tanks for each of our refineries as of december 31, 2013 . refinery crude oil refining capacity ( mbpcd ) (a) tank storage capacity ( million barrels ) number of tanks garyville, louisiana 522 15.9 76 galveston bay, texas city, texas 451 16.3 89 catlettsburg, kentucky 242 5.6 112 robinson, illinois 212 6.7 103 detroit, michigan 123 6.4 86 texas city, texas 84 4.7 60 canton, ohio 80 3.0 75 total 1,714 58.6 601 (a) refining throughput can exceed crude oil capacity due to the processing of other feedstocks in addition to crude oil and the timing of planned turnaround and major maintenance activity. our refineries include crude oil atmospheric and vacuum distillation, fluid catalytic cracking, hydrocracking, catalytic reforming, coking, desulfurization and sulfur recovery units. the refineries process a wide variety of light and heavy crude oils purchased from various domestic and foreign suppliers. we produce numerous refined products, ranging from transportation fuels, such as reformulated gasolines, blend-grade gasolines intended for blending with ethanol and ulsd fuel, to heavy fuel oil and asphalt. additionally, we manufacture aromatics, propane, propylene, cumene and sulfur. see the refined product marketing section for further information about the products we produce. our refineries are integrated with each other via pipelines, terminals and barges to maximize operating efficiency. the transportation links that connect our refineries allow the movement of intermediate products between refineries to optimize operations, produce higher margin products and utilize our processing capacity efficiently. for example, naphtha may be moved from texas city to robinson where excess reforming capacity is available. also, by shipping intermediate products between facilities during partial refinery shutdowns, we are able to utilize processing capacity that is not directly affected by the shutdown work. garyville, louisiana refinery . our garyville, louisiana refinery is located along the mississippi river in southeastern louisiana between new orleans and baton rouge. the garyville refinery is configured to process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, fuel-grade coke, polymer-grade propylene, asphalt, propane, slurry and sulfur. the refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products into higher value markets. a major expansion project was completed in 2009 that increased garyville's crude oil refining capacity, making it one of the largest refineries in the u.s. our garyville refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. galveston bay, texas city, texas refinery . our galveston bay refinery, which we acquired on february 1, 2013, is located on the texas gulf coast approximately 30 miles southeast of houston, texas. the refinery can process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, aromatics, heavy fuel oil, refinery-grade propylene and fuel-grade coke. the refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products into higher value markets. our cogeneration facility, which supplies the galveston bay refinery, has 1,040 megawatts of electrical production capacity and can produce 4.6 million pounds of steam per hour. approximately 50 percent of the power generated is used at the refinery, with the remaining electricity being sold into the electricity grid. catlettsburg, kentucky refinery . our catlettsburg, kentucky refinery is located in northeastern kentucky on the western bank of the big sandy river, near the confluence with the ohio river. the catlettsburg refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, heavy fuel oil, aromatics, propane and refinery-grade propylene. 9 table of contents robinson, illinois refinery . our robinson, illinois refinery is located in southeastern illinois. the robinson refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into multiple grades of gasoline, distillates, propane, aromatics, slurry and anode-grade coke. the robinson refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. detroit, michigan refinery . our detroit, michigan refinery is located in southwest detroit. it is the only petroleum refinery currently operating in michigan. the detroit refinery processes sweet and heavy sour crude oils, including canadian crude oils, into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, fuel-grade coke, chemical-grade propylene, propane, slurry and sulfur. our detroit refinery earned designation as a michigan vpp star site in 2010. in the fourth quarter of 2012, we completed a heavy oil upgrading and expansion project that enabled the refinery to process up to an additional 80 mbpd of heavy sour crude oils, including canadian bitumen blends. texas city, texas refinery . our texas city, texas refinery is located on the texas gulf coast adjacent to our galveston bay refinery, approximately 30 miles southeast of houston, texas. the refinery processes light sweet crude oils into gasoline, chemical-grade propylene, propane, aromatics and slurry. our texas city refinery earned designation as an osha vpp star site in 2012. canton, ohio refinery . our canton, ohio refinery is located approximately 60 miles south of cleveland, ohio. the canton refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils, including crude oil and condensate currently being produced from the utica shale, into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, roofing flux, propane and slurry. as of december 31, 2013 , our refineries had 25 rail loading racks and 24 truck loading racks and four of our refineries had a total of seven owned and 11 non-owned docks. total throughput in 2013 was 80 mbpd for the refinery loading racks and 919 mbpd for the refinery docks. planned maintenance activities, or turnarounds, requiring temporary shutdown of certain refinery operating units, are periodically performed at each refinery. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional detail. refined product yields the following table sets forth our refinery production by product group for each of the last three years. refined product yields ( mbpd ) 2013 2012 2011 gasoline 921 738 739 distillates 572 433 433 propane 37 26 25 feedstocks and special products 221 109 109 heavy fuel oil 31 18 21 asphalt 54 62 56 total 1,836 1,386 1,383 crude oil supply we obtain the crude oil we refine through negotiated term contracts and purchases or exchanges on the spot market. our term contracts generally have market-related pricing provisions. the following table provides information on our sources of crude oil for each of the last three years. the crude oil sourced outside of north america was acquired from various foreign national oil companies, production companies and trading companies. sources of crude oil refined ( mbpd ) 2013 2012 2011 united states 946 649 668 canada 255 195 177 middle east and other international 388 351 332 total 1,589 1,195 1,177 our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks and distribute our refined products through a variety of channels, including pipelines, trucks, railcars, ships and barges. during 2012, we began transporting condensate and crude oil by truck from the utica shale region to our canton refinery. 10 table of contents refined product marketing we believe we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers and consumers within our 18 -state market area. independent retailers, wholesale customers, our marathon brand jobbers and speedway brand convenience stores, airlines, transportation companies and utilities comprise the core of our customer base. in addition, we sell gasoline, distillates and asphalt for export to international customers, primarily out of our garyville and galveston bay refineries. the following table sets forth our refined product sales destined for export by product group for the past three years. refined product sales destined for export ( mbpd ) 2013 2012 2011 gasoline 38 1 distillates 173 114 76 asphalt 6 8 7 other 1 1 total 218 123 84 the following table sets forth, as a percentage of total refined product sales volume, the sales of refined products to our different customer types for the past three years. refined product sales by customer type 2013 2012 2011 private-brand marketers, commercial and industrial customers, including spot market 75 % 72 % 72 % marathon-branded independent entrepreneurs 16 % 17 % 17 % speedway convenience stores 9 % 11 % 11 % the following table sets forth the approximate number of retail outlets by state where independent entrepreneurs maintain marathon-branded retail outlets, as of december 31, 2013 . state approximate number of marathon retail outlets alabama 147 florida 359 georgia 268 illinois 373 indiana 652 kentucky 594 maryland 1 michigan 761 minnesota 75 mississippi 10 north carolina 297 ohio 870 pennsylvania 50 south carolina 126 tennessee 259 virginia 136 west virginia 122 wisconsin 66 total 5,166 as of december 31, 2013 , we also had branded-jobber marketing contract assignments for retail outlets, primarily in florida, mississippi, tennessee and alabama, which we acquired as part of the galveston bay refinery and related assets acquisition. 11 table of contents the following table sets forth our refined product sales volumes by product group for each of the last three years. refined product sales ( mbpd ) 2013 2012 2011 gasoline 1,126 916 908 distillates 615 463 459 propane 37 27 25 feedstocks and special products 214 112 111 heavy fuel oil 29 19 19 asphalt 54 62 59 total 2,075 1,599 1,581 gasoline and distillates . we sell gasoline, gasoline blendstocks and distillates (including no. 1 and no. 2 fuel oils, jet fuel, kerosene and diesel fuel) to wholesale customers, marathon-branded independent entrepreneurs and our speedway convenience stores in the midwest, gulf coast and southeast regions of the united states and on the spot market. in addition, we sell diesel fuel and gasoline for export to international customers. we sold 59 percent of our gasoline sales volumes and 91 percent of our distillates sales volumes on a wholesale or spot market basis in 2013 . the demand for gasoline and distillates is seasonal in many of our markets, with demand typically at its highest levels during the summer months. we have blended ethanol into gasoline for more than 20 years and began expanding our blending program in 2007, in part due to federal regulations that require us to use specified volumes of renewable fuels. ethanol volumes sold in blended gasoline were 74 mbpd in 2013 , 68 mbpd in 2012 and 70 mbpd in 2011 . we sell reformulated gasoline, which is also blended with ethanol, in parts of our marketing territory, including illinois, kentucky, indiana, wisconsin and pennsylvania. we also sell biodiesel-blended diesel fuel in 12 states in our marketing area. the future expansion or contraction of our ethanol and biodiesel blending programs will be driven by market economics and government regulations. we hold interests in ethanol production facilities in albion, michigan; clymers, indiana and greenville, ohio. these plants have a combined ethanol production capacity of 275 million gallons per year and are managed by a co-owner. propane . we produce propane at most of our refineries. propane is primarily used for home heating and cooking, as a feedstock within the petrochemical industry, for grain drying and as a fuel for trucks and other vehicles. our propane sales are typically split evenly between the home heating market and industrial consumers. feedstocks and special products . we are a producer and marketer of feedstocks and specialty products. product availability varies by refinery and includes propylene, raffinate, butane, benzene, xylene, molten sulfur, cumene and toluene. we market all products domestically to customers in the chemical, agricultural and fuel-blending industries. in addition, we produce fuel-grade coke at our garyville, detroit and galveston bay refineries, which is used for power generation and in miscellaneous industrial applications, and anode-grade coke at our robinson refinery, which is used to make carbon anodes for the aluminum smelting industry. our feedstocks and special products sales increased to 214 mbpd in 2013 from 112 mbpd in 2012 primarily due to our acquisition of the galveston bay refinery. heavy fuel oil . we produce and market heavy residual fuel oil or related components, including slurry, at all of our refineries. heavy residual fuel oil is primarily used in the utility and ship bunkering (fuel) industries, though there are other more specialized uses of the product. asphalt . we have refinery-based asphalt production capacity of up to 101 mbpcd, which includes asphalt cements, polymer-modified asphalt, emulsified asphalt, industrial asphalts and roofing flux. as of december 31, 2013 , we marketed asphalt through 29 owned or third-party terminals throughout the midwest and southeast. we have a broad customer base, including asphalt-paving contractors, government entities (states, counties, cities and townships) and asphalt roofing shingle manufacturers. we sell asphalt in the domestic and export wholesale markets via rail, barge and vessel. 12 table of contents terminals as of december 31, 2013 , we owned and operated 64 light product and 19 asphalt terminals. our light product and asphalt terminals averaged 1,388 mbpd and 26 mbpd of throughput in 2013 , respectively. in addition, we distribute refined products through one leased light product terminal, two light product terminals in which we have partial ownership interests but do not operate and approximately 60 third-party light product and 10 third-party asphalt terminals in our market area. the following table sets forth additional details about our owned and operated terminals at december 31, 2013 . owned and operated terminals number of terminals tank storage capacity ( million barrels ) number of tanks number of loading lanes light product terminals: alabama 2 0.4 20 4 florida 4 2.9 84 22 georgia 4 0.9 38 9 illinois 4 1.2 44 14 indiana 6 2.8 71 17 kentucky 6 2.3 68 24 louisiana 1 0.1 8 2 michigan 9 2.3 87 28 north carolina 4 1.2 48 13 ohio 13 3.9 160 33 pennsylvania 1 0.3 10 2 south carolina 1 0.4 9 3 tennessee 4 1.0 42 12 virginia 1 0.3 12 2 west virginia 2 0.1 10 2 wisconsin 2 0.8 19 7 subtotal light product terminals 64 20.9 730 194 asphalt terminals: florida 1 0.2 6 3 illinois 2 0.1 27 6 indiana 2 0.4 13 6 kentucky 4 0.6 62 14 louisiana 1 0.1 11 2 michigan 1 8 new york 1 0.1 4 3 ohio 4 2.0 66 10 pennsylvania 1 0.5 25 8 tennessee 2 0.4 46 8 subtotal asphalt terminals 19 4.4 260 68 total owned and operated terminals 83 25.3 990 262 13 table of contents transportation as of december 31, 2013 , our marine transportation operations included 17 owned and one leased towboat, as well as 184 owned and 16 leased barges that transport refined products and crude oil on the ohio, mississippi and illinois rivers and their tributaries and inter-coastal waterways. the following table sets forth additional details about our towboats and barges. class of equipment number in class capacity ( thousand barrels ) inland tank barges: (a) less than 25,000 barrels 60 848 25,000 barrels and over 140 4,097 total 200 4,945 inland towboats: less than 2,000 horsepower 2 2,000 horsepower and over 16 total 18 (a) all of our barges are double-hulled. as of december 31, 2013 , we owned 170 transport trucks and 161 trailers with an aggregate capacity of 1.5 million gallons for the movement of refined products and crude oil. in addition, we had 2,138 leased and 27 owned railcars of various sizes and capacities for movement and storage of refined products. the following table sets forth additional details about our railcars. number of railcars class of equipment owned leased total capacity per railcar general service tank cars 763 763 20,000-30,000 gallons high pressure tank cars 1,166 1,166 33,500 gallons open-top hoppers 27 209 236 4,000 cubic feet 27 2,138 2,165 speedway our speedway segment sells gasoline and merchandise through convenience stores that it owns and operates, primarily under the speedway brand. diesel fuel is also sold at the vast majority of these convenience stores. speedway-branded convenience stores offer a wide variety of merchandise, including prepared foods, beverages and non-food items. speedway's speedy rewards loyalty program has been an industry-leading loyalty program since its inception in 2004, with a consistently growing base of more than 3.7 million active members. due to speedway's ability to capture and analyze member-specific transactional data, speedway is able to offer the speedy rewards members discounts and promotions specific to their buying behavior. we believe speedy rewards is a key reason customers choose speedway over competitors and it continues to drive significant value for both speedway and our speedy rewards members. the demand for gasoline is seasonal, with the highest demand usually occurring during the summer driving season. margins from the sale of merchandise tend to be less volatile than margins from the retail sale of gasoline and diesel fuel. the following table sets forth speedway merchandise statistics for the past three years. speedway merchandise statistics 2013 2012 2011 merchandise sales (in millions) $ 3,135 $ 3,058 $ 2,924 merchandise gross margin (in millions) 825 795 719 merchandise as a percent of total gross margin 65 % 67 % 65 % 14 table of contents as of december 31, 2013 , speedway had 1,478 convenience stores in nine states, which includes the 2013 expansion into pennsylvania and tennessee. the following table sets forth the number of convenience stores by state owned by our speedway segment as of december 31, 2013 . state number of convenience stores illinois 107 indiana 305 kentucky 145 michigan 302 ohio 484 pennsylvania 5 tennessee 7 west virginia 59 wisconsin 64 total 1,478 pipeline transportation as of december 31, 2013 , we owned, leased or had ownership interests in approximately 8,300 miles of crude oil and products pipelines, of which approximately 2,900 miles are owned through our investments in mplx and pipe line holdings. mplx in 2012, we formed mplx, a master limited partnership, to own, operate, develop and acquire pipelines and other midstream assets related to the transportation and storage of crude oil, refined products and other hydrocarbon-based products. on october 31, 2012, mplx completed its initial public offering. we own a 73.6 percent interest in mplx, including the two percent general partner interest. as of december 31, 2013, mplx's assets consisted of a 56 percent general partner interest in pipe line holdings, which owns common carrier pipeline systems through marathon pipe line llc ( mpl ) and ohio river pipe line llc ( orpl ), and a 100 percent interest in a one million barrel butane storage cavern in west virginia. in addition, we own the remaining 44 percent limited partner interest in pipe line holdings. on february 27, 2014, we announced that an additional 13 percent of pipe line holdings will be sold to mplx effective on march 1, 2014. mplx intends to finance the acquisition with cash on-hand and by borrowing on its revolving credit agreement. this will increase mplx's and reduce our ownership interest in pipe line holdings to 69 percent and 31 percent, respectively. as of december 31, 2013 , pipe line holdings, through mpl and orpl, owned or leased and operated 1,004 miles of common carrier crude oil lines and 1,902 miles of common carrier products lines comprising 30 systems located in nine states and four tank farms in illinois and indiana with available storage capacity of 3.29 million barrels that is committed to mpc. the table below sets forth additional detail regarding the pipeline systems and storage assets we owned through pipe line holdings and mplx as of december 31, 2013 . 15 table of contents pipeline system or storage asset origin destination diameter ( inches ) length ( miles ) capacity (a) associated mpc refinery crude oil pipeline systems (mbpd): patoka, il to lima, oh crude system patoka, il lima, oh 20 -22 302 249 detroit, canton catlettsburg, ky and robinson, il crude system patoka, il catlettsburg, ky &amp; robinson, il 20"-24" 484 495 catlettsburg, robinson detroit, mi crude system (b) samaria &amp; romulus, mi detroit, mi 16" 61 320 detroit wood river, il to patoka, il crude system (b) wood river &amp; roxana, il patoka, il 12"-22" 115 314 all midwest refineries inactive pipelines 42 n/a total 1,004 1,378 products pipeline systems (mbpd): garyville, la products system garyville, la zachary, la 20"-36" 72 389 garyville texas city, tx products system texas city, tx pasadena, tx 16"-36" 42 215 texas city, galveston bay orpl products system various various 6"-14" 518 241 catlettsburg, canton robinson, il products system (b) various various 10"-16" 1,173 548 robinson louisville, ky airport products system louisville, ky louisville, ky 6"-8" 14 29 robinson inactive pipelines (b) 83 n/a total 1,902 1,422 wood river, il barge dock (mbpd) 84 garyville storage assets (thousand barrels): neal, wv butane cavern (c) 1,000 catlettsburg patoka, il tank farm 1,386 all midwest refineries wood river, il tank farm 419 all midwest refineries martinsville, il tank farm 738 detroit, canton lebanon, in tank farm 750 detroit, canton total 4,293 (a) all capacities reflect 100 percent of the pipeline systems' and barge dock's average capacity in thousands of barrels per day and 100 percent of the available storage capacity of our butane cavern and tank farms in thousand of barrels. crude oil capacity is based on light crude oil barrels. (b) includes pipelines leased from third parties. (c) the neal, wv butane cavern is 100 percent owned by mplx. the pipe line holdings common carrier pipeline network is one of the largest petroleum pipeline systems in the united states, based on total volume delivered. third parties generated 13 percent of the crude oil and refined product shipments on these common carrier pipelines in 2013 , excluding volumes shipped by mpc under joint tariffs with third parties. these common carrier pipelines transported the volumes shown in the following table for each of the last three years. pipeline throughput (mbpd) (a)(b) 2013 2012 2011 crude oil pipelines 1,063 1,029 993 refined products pipelines 911 980 1,031 total 1,974 2,009 2,024 (a) mplx predecessor volumes reported in mplx's filings include our undivided joint interest crude oil pipeline systems for periods prior to mplx's initial public offering, which were not contributed to mplx. the undivided joint interest volumes are not included above. (b) volumes represent 100 percent of the throughput through these pipelines. mpc-retained assets and investments in addition to our ownership interest in pipe line holdings, we retained ownership interests in several crude oil and products pipeline systems and pipeline companies. mpc consolidated volumes transported through our common carrier pipelines, which include mplx and our undivided joint interests, are shown in the following table for each of the last three years. mpc consolidated pipeline throughput ( mbpd ) 2013 2012 2011 crude oil pipelines 1,280 1,190 1,184 refined products pipelines 911 980 1,031 total 2,191 2,170 2,215 16 table of contents as of december 31, 2013 , we owned undivided joint interests in the following common carrier crude oil pipeline systems. pipeline system origin destination diameter ( inches ) length ( miles ) ownership interest operated by mpl capline st. james, la patoka, il 40" 635 33 % yes maumee lima, oh samaria, mi 22" 95 26 % no total 730 as of december 31, 2013 , we had partial ownership interests in the following pipeline companies. pipeline company origin destination diameter ( inches ) length ( miles ) ownership interest operated by mpl crude oil pipeline companies: locap llc clovelly, la st. james, la 48" 57 59 % no loop llc offshore gulf of mexico clovelly, la 48" 48 51 % no north dakota pipeline company llc (a) plentywood, mt clearbrook, mn tbd tbd 38 % no total 105 products pipeline companies: centennial pipeline llc (b) beaumont, tx bourbon, il 24"-26" 795 50 % yes explorer pipeline company lake charles, la hammond, in 12"-28" 1,883 17 % no muskegon pipeline llc griffith, in muskegon, mi 10" 170 60 % yes wolverine pipe line company chicago, il bay city &amp; ferrysburg, mi 6"-18" 743 6 % no total 3,591 (a) we own 38 percent of the class b units in this entity. upon completion of the sandpiper project, which is to construct a pipeline running from beaver lodge, north dakota to superior, wisconsin and targeted for completion in early 2016, our class b units will be converted to an approximate 27 percent ownership interest in the class a units of this entity. (b) includes 48 miles of inactive pipeline. we also own 183 miles of private crude oil pipelines and 760 miles of private refined products pipelines that are operated by mpl for the benefit of our refining &amp; marketing segment on a cost recovery basis. the following table provides additional information on these assets. private pipeline systems diameter ( inches ) length ( miles ) capacity ( mbpd ) crude oil pipeline systems: lima, oh to canton, oh 12"-16" 153 84 st. james, la to garyville, la 30" 20 620 other 2 15 inactive pipelines 8 n/a total 183 719 products pipeline systems: robinson, il to lima, oh 8" 250 18 louisville, ky to lexington, ky (a) 8" 87 34 woodhaven, mi to detroit, mi 4" 26 11 illinois pipeline systems 4"-12" 118 39 texas pipeline systems 8" 103 45 ohio pipeline systems 4"-12" 57 32 inactive pipelines 119 n/a total 760 179 (a) we own a 65 percent undivided joint interest in the louisville, ky to lexington, ky system. as of december 31, 2013 , we owned or leased 60 private tanks with storage capacity of approximately 6.5 million barrels, which are located along mplx pipelines. 17 table of contents competition, market conditions and seasonality the downstream petroleum business is highly competitive, particularly with regard to accessing crude oil and other feedstock supply and the marketing of refined products. we compete with a large number of other companies to acquire crude oil for refinery processing and in the distribution and marketing of a full array of petroleum products. based upon the the oil &amp; gas journal 2013 worldwide refinery survey, we ranked fourth among u.s. petroleum companies on the basis of u.s. crude oil refining capacity as of december 31, 2013 . we compete in four distinct markets for the sale of refined products wholesale, spot, branded and retail distribution. we believe we compete with about 60 companies in the sale of refined products to wholesale marketing customers, including private-brand marketers and large commercial and industrial consumers; about 90 companies in the sale of refined products in the spot market; 11 refiners or marketers in the supply of refined products to refiner-branded independent entrepreneurs; and approximately 260 retailers in the retail sale of refined products. in addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. we do not produce any of the crude oil we refine. we also face strong competition for sales of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. our competitors include service stations and convenience stores operated by fully integrated major oil companies and their independent entrepreneurs and other well-recognized national or regional convenience stores and travel centers, often selling gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise at competitive prices. non-traditional retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, have affected the convenience store industry with their entrance into the retail transportation fuel business. energy analysts international, inc. estimated such retailers had approximately 13 percent of the u.s. gasoline market in mid- 2013 . our pipeline transportation operations are highly regulated, which affects the rates that our common carrier pipelines can charge for transportation services and the return we obtain from such pipelines. market conditions in the oil and gas industry are cyclical and subject to global economic and political events and new and changing governmental regulations. our operating results are affected by price changes in crude oil, natural gas and refined products, as well as changes in competitive conditions in the markets we serve. price differentials between sweet and sour crude oils, west texas intermediate and light louisiana sweet crude oils and other market structure differentials also affect our operating results. demand for gasoline, diesel fuel and asphalt is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets, primarily due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and construction. as a result, the operating results for each of our segments for the first and fourth quarters may be lower than for those in the second and third quarters of each calendar year. environmental matters our management is responsible for ensuring that our operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that support and foster our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and for reviewing our overall performance associated with various environmental compliance programs. we also have a corporate emergency response team, which oversees our response to any major environmental or other emergency incident involving us or any of our facilities. we believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to issues concerning the extent and causes of climate change will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations. currently, various legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gases are in various phases of review, discussion or implementation. the cost to comply with these laws and regulations cannot be estimated at this time, but could be significant. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors. we estimate and publicly report greenhouse gas emissions from our operations and products we produce. additionally, we continuously strive to improve operational and energy efficiencies through resource and energy conservation where practicable and cost effective. our operations are also subject to numerous other laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. these environmental laws and regulations include, among others, the clean air act with respect to air emissions, the clean water act with respect to water discharges, the resource conservation and recovery act ( rcra ) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ( cercla ) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances and the oil pollution act of 1990 ( opa-90 ) with respect to oil pollution and response. in addition, many states where we operate have similar laws. new laws are being enacted and regulations are being adopted by various regulatory agencies on a continuing basis, and the costs of compliance with any new laws and regulations are very difficult to estimate until they are finalized. 18 table of contents for a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and costs of compliance for air, water, solid waste and remediation, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - environmental matters and compliance costs. air we are subject to substantial requirements in connection with air emissions from our operations. the u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) issued an endangerment finding in 2009 that greenhouse gas emissions contribute to air pollution that endangers public health and welfare. related to this endangerment finding, in april 2010, the epa finalized a greenhouse gas emissions standard for mobile sources (cars and other light duty vehicles). the endangerment finding along with the mobile source standard and the epa's determination that greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the clean air act, and the epa's so-called tailoring rule led to permitting of larger stationary sources of greenhouse gas emissions, including refineries. legal challenges filed against these epa actions were overruled by the d.c. circuit court of appeals. in response, several parties sought further review by the u.s. supreme court, which heard oral arguments on the challenges in february 2014 with an expected decision by mid-2014. the epa has proposed new source performance standards for greenhouse gas emissions for new electric utility-generating units and has announced plans to regulate existing and modified units as well. this could impact electric rates for all our operations and could impose new requirements on the combined heat and power unit we operate. it is also likely that the epa will propose refinery-specific new source performance standards for greenhouse gas emissions sometime in the future. congress may again consider legislation on greenhouse gas emissions or a carbon tax. private parties have sued utilities and other emitters of greenhouse gas emissions, but we have not been named in any of those lawsuits. private-party litigation is also pending against federal and certain state governmental entities seeking additional greenhouse gas emission reductions beyond those currently being undertaken. although there may be an adverse financial impact associated with any legislation, regulation, litigation or other action (including compliance costs, potential permitting delays and potential reduced demand for certain refined products made from crude oil), the extent and magnitude of that impact cannot be reasonably estimated due to the uncertainty regarding the additional measures and how they will be implemented. in 2013, the obama administration developed the social cost of carbon ( scc"). the scc is to be used by the epa and other federal agencies in regulatory cost-benefit analyses to take into account alleged broad economic consequences associated with changes to emissions of greenhouse gases. the scc was first issued in 2010, and in 2013, the obama administration significantly increased the estimate to $36 per ton. in response to the regulated community and congress' critiques in how the scc was developed, the office of management and budget recently announced the opportunity to comment on the scc. while the impact of a higher scc in future regulations is not known at this time, it may result in increased costs to our operations. the epa has reviewed and has revised, or will propose to revise, the national ambient air quality standards ( naaqs ) for criteria air pollutants. the naaqs are subject to multiple court challenges, making final compliance plans uncertain. the epa promulgated a revised ozone standard in march 2008 and commenced a multi-year process to develop the implementing rules required by the clean air act. in 2013, the epa is expected to propose a stricter ozone standard as part of the epa's periodic review of that standard. on july 23, 2013, the d.c. circuit court of appeals issued a decision on the 2008 ozone naaqs lawsuit. the court upheld the primary standard, but remanded the secondary naaqs standard to the epa on the grounds that the epa had not justified setting the secondary standard at the same level as the primary standard. on remand, the epa could address the court's ruling by proposing a separate secondary standard that is more stringent than the primary standard. also, in 2010, the epa adopted new short-term standards for nitrogen dioxide and sulfur dioxide, and in december 2012 issued a more stringent fine particulate matter (pm 2.5) standard. we cannot reasonably estimate the final financial impact of these proposed and revised naaqs standards until the standards are finalized, individual state implementing rules are established and judicial challenges are resolved. the epa finalized the boiler and process heater maximum achievable control technology ( boiler mact ) in march 2011 with work practice standards that are applicable to refinery and natural gas fired equipment. subsequently, in january 2013 the epa made certain revisions to the march 2011 final rule in response to petitions for reconsideration. currently, litigation is pending in the d.c. circuit court on both the 2011 and 2013 rulemakings. we anticipate litigation to continue through 2014. final financial impacts of the boiler mact rule cannot be determined at this time because of the ongoing litigation, which could affect the final rule. on july 20, 2011, the epa proposed a rule regarding cooling water intake structures which could affect some of our refineries. the rule would place new requirements on these structures. the epa has requested and received public comments on the rule as proposed, including comments on the types of structures covered by the rule. until the rule is issued final, we will not know whether the rule will apply to refinery intakes and the costs of complying with the rule. in 2014, the epa is expected to propose a refinery sector rule. this rule may require various refinery unit modifications, additional controls, lower emission standards and ambient air monitoring. we cannot reasonably estimate the financial impact of this rule until it is proposed and finalized. 19 table of contents water we maintain numerous discharge permits as required under the national pollutant discharge elimination system program of the clean water act and have implemented systems to oversee our compliance efforts. in addition, we are regulated under opa-90, which among other requirements, requires the owner or operator of a tank vessel or a facility to maintain an emergency plan to respond to releases of oil or hazardous substances. also, in case of any such release, opa-90 requires the responsible company to pay resulting removal costs and damages. opa-90 also provides for civil penalties and imposes criminal sanctions for violations of its provisions. we have implemented emergency oil response plans for all of our components and facilities covered by opa-90 and we have established spill prevention, control and countermeasures plans for all facilities subject to such requirements. additionally, opa-90 requires that new tank vessels entering or operating in u.s. waters be double-hulled and that existing tank vessels that are not double-hulled be retrofitted or removed from u.s. service. all of the barges used for river transport of our raw materials and refined products meet the double-hulled requirements of opa-90. we operate facilities at which spills of oil and hazardous substances could occur. some coastal states in which we operate have passed state laws similar to opa-90, but with expanded liability provisions, including provisions for cargo owner responsibility as well as ship owner and operator responsibility. solid waste we continue to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. rcra establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. besides affecting waste disposal practices, rcra also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of underground storage tanks ( usts ) containing regulated substances. we have ongoing rcra treatment and disposal operations at two of our facilities and primarily utilize offsite third-party treatment and disposal facilities. ongoing rcra-related costs, however, are not expected to be material to our results of operations or cash flows. remediation we own or operate, or have owned or operated, certain convenience stores and other locations where, during the normal course of operations, releases of refined products from usts have occurred. federal and state laws require that contamination caused by such releases at these sites be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards. the enforcement of the ust regulations under rcra has been delegated to the states, which administer their own ust programs. our obligation to remediate such contamination varies, depending on the extent of the releases and the stringency of the laws and regulations of the states in which we operate. a portion of these remediation costs may be recoverable from the appropriate state ust reimbursement funds once the applicable deductibles have been satisfied. we also have ongoing remediation projects at a number of our current and former refinery, terminal and pipeline locations. penalties or other sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance. claims under cercla and similar state acts have been raised with respect to the clean-up of various waste disposal and other sites. cercla is intended to facilitate the clean-up of hazardous substances without regard to fault. potentially responsible parties for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the hazardous substances at the site. liability is strict and can be joint and several. because of various factors including the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and clean-up costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, we are unable to reasonably estimate our ultimate cost of compliance with cercla; however, we do not believe such costs will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. mileage standards, renewable fuels and other fuels requirements in 2007, the u.s. congress passed the energy independence and security act ( eisa ), which, among other things, set a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the united states by model year 2020, and contains a second renewable fuel standard ( rfs2 ). in august 2012, the epa and the national highway traffic safety administration jointly adopted regulations that establish average industry fleet fuel economy standards for passenger cars and light trucks of up to 41 miles per gallon by model year 2021 and average fleet fuel economy standards of up to 49.7 miles per gallon by model year 2025 (the standards from 2022 to 2025 are the government's current estimate but will require further rulemaking). new or alternative transportation fuels such as compressed natural gas could also pose a competitive threat to our operations. 20 table of contents the rfs2 required the total volume of renewable transportation fuels sold or introduced annually in the u.s. to reach 16.55 billion gallons in 2013 and increases to 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. in the near term, the rfs2 will be satisfied primarily with ethanol blended into gasoline. however, vehicle, regulatory and infrastructure constraints could limit the ability to blend significantly more than 10 percent ethanol into gasoline that could be required if the rfs2 standards are not modified. the rfs2 has required, and may in the future continue to require, additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. within the overall 36.0 billion gallon rfs2, eisa established an advanced biofuel rfs2 volume of 2.0 billion gallons in 2012 increasing to 21.0 billion gallons in 2022. subsets within the advanced biofuel rfs2 include biomass-based diesel, which was set at 1.0 billion gallons in 2012, 1.28 billion gallons in 2013, and at least 1.0 billion gallons in 2014 through 2022 (to be determined by the epa through future rulemaking), and cellulosic biofuel, which was set at 0.5 billion gallons in 2012 and 1.0 billion gallons in 2013, increasing to 16.0 billion gallons by 2022. in 2013, the epa used its waiver authority under the clean air act to reduce the amount of cellulosic biofuel required under the statute from 1.0 billion gallons to 6 million gallons. currently, litigation is on-going in the d.c. circuit court of appeals with respect to the epa's determination of the 2013 cellulosic biofuel requirement. subsequently, industry has requested the epa to use its waiver authority for 2014, requesting reductions for total renewable fuel, advanced biofuels and cellulosic biofuels volumetric obligations. the epa has issued a proposed rule for 2014 requirements that is in the comment period. this proposed rule has substantially reduced the rfs requirements from the statutory numbers as follows: total renewables has been reduced from 18.15 to 15.21 billion gallons, the advanced requirement has been reduced from 3.75 to 2.20 billion gallons, the biomass-based diesel requirement has remained flat from 2013 at 1.28 billion gallons, and the cellulosic requirement has been reduced from 1.75 billion to 17 million gallons. if these proposed requirements become final, it will allow the obligated parties to comply in 2014 without needing any substantial volumes of 85 percent ethanol-blended or 15 percent ethanol-blended gasolines and postpone the issues and concerns of having to blend ethanol past the 10 percent ethanol blendwall at least for 2014. the future of the rfs still remains undecided and is in need of legislative re-write or repeal to provide a stable business platform for the obligated parties. the advanced biofuels programs will present specific challenges in that we may have to enter into arrangements with other parties or purchase credits from the epa to meet our obligations to use advanced biofuels, including biomass-based diesel and cellulosic biofuel, with potentially uncertain supplies of these new fuels. additionally, the epa did not finalize the 2013 rfs2 renewable fuel obligations until august 2013. therefore, it is uncertain how industry will comply with meeting the advanced biofuels obligation until compliance reports are submitted in june 2014. in 2012 and 2013, the epa also discovered that 173 million biodiesel renewable identification numbers ( rins ) used to meet the annual requirement for that fuel had been fraudulently created and sold to unsuspecting third parties, including mpc. the epa proposed a rule establishing a quality assurance program for rins purchased to help meet the annual biofuel requirements under the rfs2 program. this rule should be finalized in 2014 and is aimed at reducing the risks that rins are fraudulently created or sold. we have already instituted internal procedures to help mitigate this risk. we made investments in infrastructure capable of expanding biodiesel blending capability to help comply with the biodiesel rfs2 requirement by buying and blending biodiesel into our refined diesel product, and by buying needed biodiesel rins in the epa-created biodiesel rins market. on october 13, 2010, the epa issued a partial waiver decision under the clean air act to allow for an increase in the amount of ethanol permitted to be blended into gasoline from 10 percent ( e10 ) to 15 percent ( e15 ) for 2007 and newer light-duty motor vehicles. on january 21, 2011, the epa issued a second waiver for the use of e15 in vehicles model year 2001-2006. there are numerous issues, including state and federal regulatory issues, which need to be addressed before e15 can be marketed for use in traditional gasoline engines. there will be compliance costs and uncertainties regarding how we will comply with the various requirements contained in eisa and related regulations. we may experience a decrease in demand for refined petroleum products due to an increase in combined fleet mileage or due to refined petroleum products being replaced by renewable fuels. on march 29, 2013, the epa announced its proposed tier 3 fuel standards. the proposed tier 3 fuel standards require, among other things, a lower annual average sulfur level in gasoline to no more than 10 parts per million beginning in calendar year 2017. the epa is expected to finalize the tier 3 fuel standards in 2014. until the rule is finalized and we have developed our compliance plan, we cannot reasonably estimate our compliance cost. 21 table of contents trademarks, patents and licenses our marathon trademark is material to the conduct of our refining and marketing operations, and our speedway trademark is material to the conduct of our retail marketing operations. we currently hold a number of u.s. and foreign patents and have various pending patent applications. although in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important to us, we do not regard any single patent or license or group of related patents or licenses as critical or essential to our business as a whole. in general, we depend on our technological capabilities and the application of know-how rather than patents and licenses in the conduct of our operations. employees we had approximately 29,865 regular employees as of december 31, 2013 , which includes approximately 20,185 employees of speedway. certain hourly employees at our canton, catlettsburg, galveston bay and texas city refineries are represented by the united steel, paper and forestry, rubber, manufacturing, energy, allied industrial and service workers union under labor agreements that are due to expire in 2015. the international brotherhood of teamsters represents certain hourly employees at our detroit refinery under a labor agreement that is scheduled to expire in 2019. executive officers of the registrant the executive officers of mpc and their ages as of february 1, 2014 , are as follows: name age position with mpc gary r. heminger 60 president and chief executive officer pamela k.m. beall 57 senior vice president, corporate planning, government &amp; public affairs richard d. bedell 59 senior vice president, refining michael g. braddock 56 vice president and controller timothy t. griffith 44 vice president, finance and investor relations, and treasurer john r. haley 57 vice president, tax thomas m. kelley 54 senior vice president, marketing anthony r. kenney 60 president, speedway llc rodney p. nichols 61 senior vice president, human resources and administrative services c. michael palmer 60 senior vice president, supply, distribution and planning george p. shaffner 54 senior vice president, transportation and logistics john s. swearingen 54 vice president, health, environment, safety &amp; security donald c. templin 50 senior vice president and chief financial officer donald w. wehrly 54 vice president and chief information officer j. michael wilder 61 vice president, general counsel and secretary mr. heminger was appointed president and chief executive officer effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. heminger was president of marathon petroleum company lp (formerly known as marathon ashland petroleum llc and marathon petroleum company llc), currently a wholly owned subsidiary of mpc and prior to the spinoff, a wholly owned subsidiary of marathon oil. he assumed responsibility as president of marathon petroleum company lp in september 2001. ms. beall was appointed senior vice president, corporate planning, government &amp; public affairs effective january 1, 2014. prior to this appointment, ms. beall was vice president, investor relations and government &amp; public affairs beginning june 30, 2011 and was vice president, products supply and optimization of marathon petroleum company lp beginning in june 2010. she served as vice president of global procurement for marathon oil company between 2007 and 2010 and prior to that as organizational vice president, business development downstream. mr. bedell was appointed senior vice president, refining effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. bedell served in the same capacity for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in june 2010 and as manager, louisiana refining division beginning in 2001. mr. braddock was appointed vice president and controller effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. braddock was controller of marathon petroleum company lp beginning in 2008 and manager, internal audit between 2005 and 2008. 22 table of contents mr. griffith was appointed vice president, finance and investor relations, and treasurer effective january 1, 2014. prior to this appointment, mr. griffith was vice president of finance and treasurer beginning august 1, 2011. mr. griffith was vice president investor relations and treasurer of smurfit-stone container corporation, a packaging manufacturer, in st. louis, missouri, from 2008 to 2011. mr. haley was appointed vice president, tax effective june 1, 2013. prior to this appointment, mr. haley served as director of tax beginning in july 2011 and as a tax manager for marathon oil company beginning in 1996. mr. kelley was appointed senior vice president, marketing effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. kelley served in the same capacity for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in january 2010. previously, he served as director of crude supply and logistics for marathon petroleum company lp from january 2008, and as a brand marketing manager for eight years prior to that. mr. kenney has served as president of speedway llc since august 2005. mr. nichols was appointed senior vice president, human resources and administrative services effective march 2012. prior to this appointment, mr. nichols served as vice president, human resources and administrative services beginning on june 30, 2011 and served in the same capacity for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in april 1998. mr. palmer was appointed senior vice president, supply, distribution and planning effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. palmer served as vice president, supply, distribution &amp; planning for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in june 2010. he served as crude supply and logistics director for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in february 2010, and as senior vice president, oil sands operations and commercial activities for marathon oil canada corporation beginning in 2007. mr. shaffner was appointed senior vice president, transportation and logistics effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. shaffner served in the same capacity for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in june 2010. previously, mr. shaffner served as michigan refining division manager beginning in october 2006. mr. swearingen was appointed vice president of health, environmental, safety &amp; security effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. swearingen was president of marathon pipe line llc beginning in 2009 and the illinois refining division manager beginning in november 2001. mr. templin was appointed senior vice president and chief financial officer effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. templin was a partner at pricewaterhousecoopers llp, an audit, tax and advisory services provider, with various audit and management responsibilities beginning in 1996. mr. wehrly was appointed vice president and chief information officer effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. wehrly was the manager of information technology services for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in 2003. mr. wilder was appointed vice president, general counsel and secretary effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. wilder was associate general counsel of marathon oil company beginning in 2010 and general counsel and secretary of marathon petroleum company lp beginning in 1997. garry l. peiffer, who was executive vice president of corporate planning and investor &amp; government relations since june 30, 2011, retired effective january 1, 2014. available information general information about mpc, including corporate governance principles and charters for the audit committee, compensation committee and corporate governance and nominating committee, can be found at http://ir.marathonpetroleum.com. in addition, our code of business conduct and code of ethics for senior financial officers are also available in this same location. mpc uses its website, www.marathonpetroleum.com , as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, financial information and market data. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished with the securities and exchange commission. these documents are also available in hard copy, free of charge, by contacting our investor relations office. in addition, our website allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive email alerts when we post news releases and financial information on our website. information contained on our website is not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k or other securities filings. 23 table of contents item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k in evaluating us and our common stock. some of these risks relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate, while others relate to the ownership of our common stock. our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks, and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline. risks relating to our business failure to identify and manage risks inherent to our business could adversely impact our operations, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to business interruption due to scheduled refinery turnarounds and to unplanned maintenance or events such as explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents, severe weather and labor disputes. failure to identify and manage these risks could result in explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents resulting in personal injury, loss of life, environmental damage, property damage, legal liability, loss of revenue and substantial fines by governmental authorities. a substantial or extended decline in refining and marketing gross margins would reduce our operating results and cash flows and could materially and adversely impact our future rate of growth and the carrying value of our assets. our operating results, cash flows, future rate of growth and the carrying value of our assets are highly dependent on the margins we realize on our refined products. the measure of the difference between market prices for refined products and crude oil, or crack spread, is commonly used by the industry as a proxy for refining and marketing gross margins. historically, refining and marketing gross margins have been volatile, and we believe they will continue to be volatile. our margins and cost of producing gasoline and other refined products are influenced by a number of conditions, including the price of crude oil. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all of the crude oil we refine. the price of crude oil and the price at which we can sell our refined products may fluctuate independently due to a variety of regional and global market conditions. any overall change in crack spreads will impact our refining and marketing gross margins. many of the factors influencing a change in crack spreads and refining and marketing gross margins are beyond our control. these factors include: worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for crude oil and refined products; the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks to be manufactured into refined products; the prices realized for refined products; utilization rates of refineries; natural gas and electricity supply costs incurred by refineries; the ability of the members of opec to agree to and maintain production controls; political instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions; local weather conditions; seasonality of demand in our marketing area due to increased highway traffic in the spring and summer months; natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornadoes; the price and availability of alternative and competing forms of energy; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and local, regional, national and worldwide economic conditions. some of these factors can vary by region and may change quickly, adding to market volatility, while others may have longer-term effects. the longer-term effects of these and other factors on refining and marketing gross margins are uncertain. we purchase our crude oil and other refinery feedstocks weeks before we refine them and sell the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. we also purchase refined products manufactured by others for resale to our customers. price changes during the periods between purchasing and reselling those refined products also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. lower refining and marketing gross margins may reduce the amount of refined products we produce, which may reduce our revenues, income from operations and cash flows. significant reductions in refining and marketing gross margins could require us to reduce our capital expenditures or impair the carrying value of our assets. 24 table of contents our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. we do not insure against all such potential losses, and, therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected liabilities and increased costs. our operations are subject to business interruptions due to scheduled refinery turnarounds and to unplanned events such as explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents or unplanned maintenance, severe weather and labor disputes. for example, pipelines provide a nearly-exclusive form of transportation of crude oil to, or refined products from, some of our refineries. in such instances, a prolonged interruption in service of such a pipeline could materially and adversely affect the operations, profitability and cash flows of the impacted refinery. explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents involving our assets or operations could result in serious personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property and equipment, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us. damages resulting from an incident involving any of our assets or operations may result in our being named as a defendant in one or more lawsuits asserting potentially substantial claims or in our being assessed potentially substantial fines by governmental authorities. we maintain insurance coverage in amounts we believe to be prudent against many, but not all, potential liabilities arising from operating hazards. uninsured liabilities arising from operating hazards could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. historically, we also have maintained insurance coverage for physical damage and resulting business interruption to our major facilities, with significant self-insured retentions. in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance of the types and amounts we desire at reasonable rates. we rely on the performance of our information technology systems, the failure of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are heavily dependent on our information technology systems and network infrastructure and maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. these information systems include data network and telecommunications, internet access and our websites, and various computer hardware equipment and software applications, including those that are critical to the safe operation of our business. these systems and infrastructure are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources including natural disasters, software viruses or other malware, power failures, cyber-attacks and other events. we also face various other cyber-security threats, including threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable. to protect against such attempts of unauthorized access or attack, we have implemented infrastructure protection technologies and disaster recovery plans. there can be no guarantee such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be totally effective. the retail market is diverse and highly competitive, and very aggressive competition could adversely impact our business. we face strong competition in the market for the sale of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. our competitors include outlets owned or operated by fully integrated major oil companies or their dealers or jobbers, and other well-recognized national or regional retail outlets, often selling gasoline or merchandise at very competitive prices. several non-traditional retailers such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants are in the retail business. these non-traditional gasoline retailers have obtained a significant share of the transportation fuels market and we expect their market share to grow. because of their diversity, integration of operations, experienced management and greater financial resources, these companies may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions or levels of low or no profitability in the retail segment of the market. in addition, these retailers may use promotional pricing or discounts, both at the pump and in the store, to encourage in-store merchandise sales. these activities by our competitors could pressure us to offer similar discounts, adversely affecting our profit margins. additionally, the loss of market share by our convenience stores to these and other retailers relating to either gasoline or merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the development, availability and marketing of alternative and competing fuels in the retail market could adversely impact our business. we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel needs of our consumers. increased competition from these alternatives as a result of governmental regulations, technological advances and consumer demand could have an impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability. 25 table of contents we are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil and refined products. we utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil and refined products to and from our refineries. in addition to our own operational risks discussed above, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines, railways or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations or third-party actions. a prolonged disruption of the ability of the pipelines, railways or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products to or from one or more of our refineries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may incur losses to our business as a result of our forward-contract activities and derivative transactions. we currently use commodity derivative instruments, and we expect to enter into these types of transactions in the future. a failure of a futures commission merchant or counterparty to perform would affect these transactions. to the extent the instruments we utilize to manage these exposures are not effective, we may incur losses related to the ineffective portion of the derivative transaction or costs related to moving the derivative positions to another futures commission merchant or counterparty once a failure has occurred. we have debt obligations; therefore our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed by a deterioration of our credit profile, a decrease in debt capacity or unsecured commercial credit available to us, or by factors adversely affecting credit markets generally. at december 31, 2013 , our total debt obligations for borrowed money and capital lease obligations were $3.4 billion . we may incur substantial additional debt obligations in the future. our indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could have material adverse consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. a decrease in our debt or commercial credit capacity, including unsecured credit extended by third-party suppliers, or a deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and/or limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. historic or current operations could subject us to significant legal liability or restrict our ability to operate. we currently are defending litigation and anticipate we will be required to defend new litigation in the future. our operations and those of our predecessors could expose us to litigation and civil claims by private plaintiffs for alleged damages related to contamination of the environment or personal injuries caused by releases of hazardous substances from our facilities, products liability, consumer credit or privacy laws, product pricing or antitrust laws or any other laws or regulations that apply to our operations. while an adverse outcome in most litigation matters would not be expected to be material to us, in class-action litigation, large classes of plaintiffs may allege damages relating to extended periods of time or other alleged facts and circumstances that could increase the amount of potential damages. attorneys general and other government officials may pursue litigation in which they seek to recover civil damages from companies on behalf of a state or its citizens for a variety of claims, including violation of consumer protection and product pricing laws or natural resources damages. we are defending litigation of that type and anticipate that we will be required to defend new litigation of that type in the future. if we are not able to successfully defend such litigation, it may result in liability to our company that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we do not have insurance covering all of these potential liabilities. in addition to substantial liability, plaintiffs in litigation may also seek injunctive relief which, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 26 table of contents a portion of our workforce is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. approximately 38 percent of our refining employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. the contracts for the hourly refinery workers at our texas city and detroit refineries are scheduled to expire in march 2015 and january 2019, respectively. the contracts for the hourly refinery workers at our canton, catlettsburg and galveston bay refineries are each scheduled to expire in january 2015. these contracts may be renewed at an increased cost to us, or we may experience work stoppages as a result of labor disagreements. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a publicly traded master limited partnership, mplx, which may involve a greater exposure to legal liability than our historic business operations. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of mplx, a publicly traded master limited partnership. our control of the general partner of mplx may increase the possibility of claims of breach of fiduciary duties including claims of conflicts of interest related to mplx. any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if foreign ownership of our stock exceeds certain levels, we could be prohibited from operating inland river vessels, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the shipping act of 1916 and merchant marine act of 1920, which we refer to collectively as the maritime laws, generally require that vessels engaged in u.s. coastwise trade be owned by the u.s. citizens. among other requirements to establish citizenship, corporations that own such vessels must be owned at least 75 percent by u.s. citizens. if we fail to maintain compliance with the maritime laws, we would be prohibited from operating vessels in the u.s. inland waters. such a prohibition could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to certain continuing contingent liabilities of marathon oil relating to taxes and other matters and to potential liabilities pursuant to the tax sharing agreement we entered into with marathon oil that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. although the spinoff occurred in mid 2011, certain liabilities of marathon oil could become our obligations. for example, under the internal revenue code of 1986 (the code ) and related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the spinoff is jointly and severally liable for the federal income tax liability of the entire marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. in connection with the spinoff, we entered into a tax sharing agreement with marathon oil that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group between us and marathon oil. however, if marathon oil is unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes. other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans as well as other contingent liabilities. also pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, following the spinoff we are responsible generally for all taxes attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries, whether accruing before, on or after the spinoff. we also agreed to be responsible for, and indemnify marathon oil with respect to, all taxes arising as a result of the spinoff (or certain internal restructuring transactions) failing to qualify as transactions under sections 368(a) and 355 of the code for u.s. federal income tax purposes to the extent such tax liability arises as a result of any breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or other obligation by us or certain affiliates made in connection with the issuance of the private letter ruling relating to the spinoff or in the tax sharing agreement. in addition, we agreed to indemnify marathon oil for specified tax-related liabilities associated with our 2005 acquisition of the minority interest in our refining joint venture from ashland inc. our indemnification obligations to marathon oil and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited or subject to any cap. if we are required to indemnify marathon oil and its subsidiaries and their respective officers and directors under the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. at this time, we cannot precisely quantify the amount of these liabilities that have been assumed pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, and there can be no assurances as to their final amounts. the tax liabilities described in this paragraph could have a material adverse effect on our company. 27 table of contents the spinoff could be determined not to qualify as a tax-free transaction, and marathon oil and its stockholders could be subject to material amounts of taxes and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify marathon oil for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement. marathon oil received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (the irs ), to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of shares of mpc common stock in the spinoff qualifies as tax-free to marathon oil, us and marathon oil stockholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a) and related provisions of the code. if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then marathon oil would not be able to continue to rely on the ruling. we are not aware of any facts or circumstances that would cause the assumptions or representations that were relied on in the private letter ruling to be inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect. if, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling, the spinoff were determined not to qualify under section 355 of the code, marathon oil would be subject to tax as if it had sold its shares of common stock of our company in a taxable sale for their fair market value and would recognize a taxable gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of such shares over its tax basis in such shares. with respect to taxes and other liabilities that could be imposed on marathon oil in connection with the spinoff (and certain related transactions) as a result of a final determination that is inconsistent with the anticipated tax consequences as set forth in the private letter ruling, we would be liable to marathon oil under the tax sharing agreement for any such taxes or liabilities attributable to actions taken by or with respect to us, any of our affiliates, or any person that, after the spinoff, is our affiliate. we may be similarly liable if we breach specified representations or covenants set forth in the tax sharing agreement. if we are required to indemnify marathon oil for taxes incurred as a result of the spinoff (or certain related transactions) being taxable to marathon oil, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have potential liabilities pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement we entered into with marathon oil in connection with the spinoff that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in connection with the spinoff, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with marathon oil that provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions that were required to affect the spinoff, certain conditions to the spinoff and provisions governing the relationship between our company and marathon oil with respect to and resulting from the spinoff. among other things, the separation and distribution agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our downstream business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the spinoff, as well as certain obligations of marathon oil assumed by us. our obligations to indemnify marathon oil under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement could subject us to substantial liabilities. marathon oil also agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. however, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities retained by marathon oil, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from marathon oil will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, that marathon oil will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations or that marathon oil's insurers will cover us for liabilities associated with occurrences prior to the spinoff. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from marathon oil or its insurers any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. if marathon oil is unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations, the underlying liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks relating to our industry changes in environmental or other laws or regulations may reduce our refining and marketing gross margin and may result in substantial capital expenditures and operating costs that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. various laws and regulations are expected to impose increasingly stringent and costly requirements on our operations, which may reduce our refining and marketing gross margin. laws and regulations relating to the emission or discharge of materials into the environment, solid and hazardous waste management, pollution prevention, greenhouse gas emissions and characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, as well as those relating to public and employee safety and health and to facility security, in particular, are expected to become more stringent. the specific impact of laws and regulations on us and our competitors may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of operating facilities, marketing areas, crude oil and feedstock sources and production processes. we may be required to make expenditures to modify operations, install pollution control equipment, perform site cleanups or curtail operations that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 28 table of contents we believe the issue of climate change will likely continue to receive scientific and political attention, with the potential for further laws and regulations that could affect our operations. the u.s. pledge in 2009, as part of the copenhagen accord, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020 remains in effect and was reaffirmed in the president's 2013 climate action plan. meetings of the united nations climate change conference, however, have produced no legally binding emission reduction requirements on the u.s. also in 2009, the epa issued an "endangerment finding" that greenhouse gas emissions contribute to air pollution that endangers public health and welfare. related to the endangerment finding, in april 2010, the epa finalized a greenhouse gas emission standard for mobile sources (cars and other light duty vehicles). the endangerment finding, the mobile source standard and the epa's determination that greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the clean air act resulted in permitting of greenhouse gas emissions at stationary sources, but as a result of the epa's tailoring rule, permit applicability was limited to larger sources such as refineries. legal challenges were filed against these epa actions. the d.c. circuit court of appeals overruled these challenges. in response, several parties sought further review by the u.s. supreme court which heard oral argument on the challenges in february 2014 with an expected decision by mid-2014. additionally, as part of the epa's ongoing regulatory agenda we anticipate refinery-specific new source performance standards may be proposed in late 2014. in 2013, the obama administration developed the social cost of carbon ("scc"). the scc is to be used by the epa and other federal agencies in regulatory cost-benefit analyses to take into account alleged broad economic consequences associated with changes to emissions of greenhouse gases. the scc was first issued in 2010, and in 2013 the obama administration significantly increased the estimate to $36 per ton. in response to the regulated community and congress' critiques in how the scc was developed, the office of management and budget recently announced the opportunity to comment on the scc. while the impact of a higher scc in future regulations is not known at this time, it may result in increased costs to our operations. in the future, congress may again consider legislation on greenhouse gas emissions or a carbon tax. other measures to address greenhouse gas emissions are in various phases of review or implementation in the u.s. these measures include state actions to develop statewide or regional programs to impose emission reductions. private party litigation is pending against federal and certain state governmental entities seeking additional greenhouse gas emission reductions beyond those currently being undertaken. these actions could result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, capital expenditures to install new emission controls and costs to administer any carbon trading or tax programs implemented. although uncertain, these developments could increase our costs, reduce the demand for the products we sell and create delays in our obtaining air pollution permits for new or modified facilities. the eisa, among other things, sets a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the u.s. by model year 2020 and contains a second renewable fuel standard commonly referred to as rfs2. in august 2012, the epa and the national highway traffic safety administration jointly adopted regulations that establish average industry fleet fuel economy standards for passenger cars and light trucks of up to 41 miles per gallon by model year 2021 and of up to 49.7 miles per gallon by model year 2025 (the standards from 2022 to 2025 are the government's current estimate but will require further rulemaking). increases in fuel mileage standards and the increased use of renewable fuels (including ethanol and advanced biofuels) may reduce demand for refined products. governmental regulations encouraging the use of new or alternative fuels could also pose a competitive threat to our operations. the rfs2 required the total volume of renewable transportation fuels sold or introduced annually in the u.s. to reach 16.55 billion gallons in 2013 and increases to 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. the rfs2 presents production and logistics challenges for both the renewable fuels and petroleum refining industries, and may continue to require additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. the advanced biofuels program, a subset of the rfs2 requirements, creates uncertainties and presents challenges of supply, and may require that we and other refiners and other obligated parties purchase credits from the epa to meet our obligations. tax incentives and other subsidies have also made renewable fuels more competitive with refined products than they otherwise would have been, which may further reduce refined product margins. on march 29, 2013, the epa announced its proposed tier 3 fuel standards. the proposed tier 3 fuel standards require, among other things, a lower allowable sulfur level in gasoline to no more than 10 parts per million by january 1, 2017. the epa is expected to finalize this rule in early 2014. our cost of compliance may be material; however, we will likely not be able to reasonably estimate our compliance costs until we have had time to review the final standards and develop our compliance plans. we have in the past owned or operated, and currently own and operate, convenience stores and other locations with usts in various states. the operation of usts poses risks, including soil and groundwater contamination, at our previously or currently operated locations. such contamination could result in substantial cleanup costs, fines or civil liabilities. 29 table of contents we have in the past and will continue to dispose of various wastes at lawful disposal sites. environmental laws, including cercla, and similar state laws can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup on any responsible party, without regard to negligence or fault, and impose liability on us for the conduct of others or conditions others have caused, or for our acts that complied with all applicable requirements when performed. any failure by us to comply with existing or future laws or regulations could result in the imposition of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, injunctions limiting our operations, investigatory or remedial liabilities or impediments to construction of additional facilities or equipment. worldwide political and economic developments could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition to impacting crude oil and other feedstock supplies, political and economic factors in global markets could have a material adverse effect on us in other ways. hostilities in the middle east or the occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economies of the u.s. and other developed countries. a lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could cause our revenues and margins to decline and limit our future growth prospects. these risks could lead to increased volatility in prices for refined products. additionally, these risks could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult or costly for us to access capital and to obtain the insurance coverage that we consider adequate. additionally, tax policy, legislative or regulatory action and commercial restrictions could reduce our operating profitability. the u.s. government could prevent or restrict exports of refined products or the conduct of business with certain foreign countries. compliance with and changes in tax laws could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal and state income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales and use, payroll, franchise, withholding and property taxes. new tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations could result in increased expenditures by us for tax liabilities in the future and could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, many tax liabilities are subject to periodic audits by taxing authorities, and such audits could subject us to interest and penalties. the availability of crude oil and increases in crude oil prices may reduce profitability and refining and marketing gross margins. the profitability of our operations depends largely on the difference between the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks we refine and the selling prices we obtain for refined products. a portion of our crude oil is purchased from various foreign national oil companies, producing companies and trading companies, including suppliers from canada, the middle east and various other international locations. the market for crude oil and other feedstocks is largely a world market. we are, therefore, subject to the attendant political, geographic and economic risks of such a market. if one or more major supply sources were temporarily or permanently eliminated, we believe adequate alternative supplies of crude oil would be available, but it is possible we would be unable to find alternative sources of supply. if we are unable to obtain adequate crude oil volumes or are able to obtain such volumes only at unfavorable prices, our operations, sales of refined products and refining and marketing gross margins could be adversely affected, materially and adversely impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities or that impact our customers or the markets we serve could adversely affect our business. the u.s. government has issued warnings that energy assets in general, including the nation's refining, pipeline and terminal infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. the threat of terrorist attacks has subjected our operations to increased risks. any future terrorist attacks on our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. similarly, any future terrorist attacks that severely disrupt the markets we serve could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 30 table of contents risks relating to ownership of our common stock provisions in our corporate governance documents could operate to delay or prevent a change in control of our company, dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our capital stock or affect its liquidity. the existence of some provisions within our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us that a stockholder may consider favorable. these include provisions: providing that our board of directors fixes the number of members of the board; providing for the division of our board of directors into three classes with staggered terms; providing that only our board of directors may fill board vacancies; limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring stockholder action to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; establishing supermajority vote requirements for certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and stockholder proposals for amendments to our amended and restated bylaws; providing that our directors may only be removed for cause; authorizing a large number of shares of common stock that are not yet issued, which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of our management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us; and authorizing the issuance of blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt. we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors time to assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. however, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition. our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. the terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. for example, we could grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our board of directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock. finally, to facilitate compliance with the maritime laws, our restated certificate of incorporation limits the aggregate percentage ownership by non-u.s. citizens of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock to 23 percent of the outstanding shares. we may prohibit transfers that would cause ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock by non-u.s. citizens to exceed 23 percent. our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to effect any and all measures necessary or desirable to monitor and limit foreign ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock. these limitations could have an adverse impact on the liquidity of the market for our common stock if holders are unable to transfer shares to non-u.s. citizens due to the limitations on ownership by non-u.s. citizens. any such limitation on the liquidity of the market for our common stock could adversely impact the market price of our common stock. 31 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, includes forward-looking statements. you can identify our forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, forecast, goal, intend, plan, predict, project, seek, target, could, may, should, will, would or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. in accordance with safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to, or statements that are subject to risks, contingencies or uncertainties that relate to: future levels of revenues, refining and marketing gross margins, operating costs, retail gasoline and distillate gross margins, merchandise margins, income from operations, net income or earnings per share; anticipated volumes of feedstock, throughput, sales or shipments of refined products; anticipated levels of regional, national and worldwide prices of crude oil and refined products; anticipated levels of crude oil and refined product inventories; future levels of capital, environmental or maintenance expenditures, general and administrative and other expenses; the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital or maintenance projects; business strategies, growth opportunities and expected investments, including planned equity investments in pipeline projects; expectations regarding the acquisition or divestiture of assets; our share repurchase authorizations, including the timing and amounts of any common stock repurchases; the effect of restructuring or reorganization of business components; the potential effects of judicial or other proceedings on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; and the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, or federal, foreign, state or local regulatory authorities, or plaintiffs in litigation. we have based our forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and our company. we caution that these statements are not guarantees of future performance, and you should not rely unduly on them, as they involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that we cannot predict. in addition, we have based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. while our management considers these assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. accordingly, our actual results may differ materially from the future performance that we have expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements. differences between actual results and any future performance suggested in our forward-looking statements could result from a variety of factors, including the following: volatility or degradation in general economic, market, industry or business conditions; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks; the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to agree on and to influence crude oil price and production controls; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of refined products such as gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, home heating oil and petrochemicals; foreign imports of refined products; refining industry overcapacity or under capacity; changes in the cost or availability of third-party vessels, pipelines and other means of transportation for crude oil, feedstocks and refined products; the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels and alternative-fuel vehicles and laws mandating such fuels or vehicles; fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products, including seasonal fluctuations; political and economic conditions in nations that consume refined products, including the united states, and in crude oil producing regions, including the middle east, africa, canada and south america; actions taken by our competitors, including pricing adjustments, expansion of retail activities, and the expansion and retirement of refining capacity in response to market conditions; completion of pipeline projects within the u.s.; changes in fuel and utility costs for our facilities; failure to realize the benefits projected for capital projects, or cost overruns associated with such projects; 1 table of contents the ability to successfully implement new assets and growth opportunities; the ability to realize the strategic benefits of joint venture opportunities; accidents or other unscheduled shutdowns affecting our refineries, machinery, pipelines or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers; unusual weather conditions and natural disasters, which can unforeseeably affect the price or availability of crude oil and other feedstocks and refined products; acts of war, terrorism or civil unrest that could impair our ability to produce or transport refined products or receive feedstocks; state and federal environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, including the cost of compliance with the renewable fuel standard; rulings, judgments or settlements and related expenses in litigation or other legal, tax or regulatory matters, including unexpected environmental remediation costs, in excess of any reserves or insurance coverage; labor and material shortages; the maintenance of satisfactory relationships with labor unions and joint venture partners; the ability and willingness of parties with whom we have material relationships to perform their obligations to us; the market price of our common stock and its impact on our share repurchase authorizations; changes in the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and trade credit, changes in the availability of unsecured credit and changes affecting the credit markets generally; and the other factors described in item 1a. risk factors. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements except to the extent required by applicable law. 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview marathon petroleum corporation ( mpc ) was incorporated in delaware on november 9, 2009. we have 126 years of experience in the energy business with roots tracing back to the formation of the ohio oil company in 1887. we are one of the largest independent petroleum product refiners, marketers and transporters in the united states. our operations consist of three business segments: refining &amp; marketing refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our seven refineries in the gulf coast and midwest regions of the united states, purchases ethanol and refined products for resale and distributes refined products through various means, including barges, terminals and trucks that we own or operate. we sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, buyers on the spot market, our speedway business segment and to independent entrepreneurs who operate marathon retail outlets; speedway sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market in the midwest, primarily through speedway convenience stores; and pipeline transportation transports crude oil and other feedstocks to our refineries and other locations, delivers refined products to wholesale and retail market areas and includes the aggregated operations of mplx lp and mpc's retained pipeline assets and investments. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk. capital resources as of december 31, 2013 , we had no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding under our revolving credit agreements or our trade receivables securitization facility and our liquidity totaled $6.09 billion consisting of: (in millions) december 31, 2013 cash and cash equivalents $ 2,292 revolving credit agreement (a) 2,500 trade receivables securitization facility 1,300 total $ 6,092 (a) excludes mplx's $500 million revolving credit agreement, which was undrawn as of december 31, 2013 . because of the alternatives available to us, including internally generated cash flow and access to capital markets, we believe that our short-term and long-term liquidity is adequate to fund not only our current operations, but also our near-term and long-term funding requirements, including capital spending programs, the repurchase of shares of our common stock, dividend payments, defined benefit plan contributions, repayment of debt maturities and other amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies. we have a $2.5 billion unsecured revolving credit agreement ("credit agreement") in place with a maturity date of september 14, 2017. the credit agreement includes letter of credit issuing capacity of up to $2.0 billion and swingline loan capacity of up to $100 million . we may increase our borrowing capacity under the credit agreement by up to an additional $500 million , subject to certain conditions including the consent of the lenders whose commitments would be increased. in addition, the maturity date may be extended for up to two additional one -year periods subject to the approval of lenders holding greater than 50 percent of the commitments then outstanding, provided that the commitments of any non-consenting lenders will be terminated on the then-effective maturity date. borrowings under the credit agreement bear interest at either the adjusted libo rate (as defined in the credit agreement) plus a margin or the alternate base rate (as defined in the credit agreement) plus a margin. we are charged various fees and expenses in connection with the credit agreement, including administrative agent fees, commitment fees on the unused portion of our borrowing capacity and fees related to issued and outstanding letters of credit. the applicable interest rates and certain of the fees fluctuate based on the credit ratings in effect from time to time on our long-term debt. 53 table of contents the credit agreement contains certain representations and warranties, affirmative and restrictive covenants and events of default that we consider to be usual and customary for arrangements of this type, including a financial covenant that requires us to maintain a ratio of consolidated net debt (as defined in the credit agreement) to total capitalization (as defined in the credit agreement) of no greater than 0.65 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. as of december 31, 2013 , we were in compliance with this debt covenant with a ratio of consolidated net debt to total capitalization of 0.16 to 1.00. other covenants, among other things, restrict our ability to incur debt, create liens on our assets or enter into transactions with affiliates. we were also in compliance with these other covenants contained in the credit agreement. mplx operations llc, an affiliate of mpc and wholly-owned subsidiary of mplx lp, has a $500 million unsecured revolving credit agreement ("mplx credit agreement") in place with a maturity date of october 31, 2017. the mplx credit agreement includes letter of credit issuing capacity of up to $250 million and swingline loan capacity of up to $50 million . the borrowing capacity under the mplx credit agreement may be increased by up to an additional $300 million , subject to certain conditions, including the consent of the lenders whose commitments would increase. in addition, the maturity date may be extended up to two additional one -year periods subject to the approval of lenders holding greater than 50 percent of the commitments then outstanding, provided that the commitments of any non-consenting lenders will be terminated on the then-effective maturity date. borrowings under the mplx credit agreement bear interest at either the adjusted libo rate (as defined in the mplx credit agreement) plus a margin, or the alternate base rate (as defined in the mplx credit agreement) plus a margin. mplx is charged various fees and expenses in connection with the agreement, including administrative agent fees, commitment fees on the unused portion of the borrowing capacity and fees with respect to issued and outstanding letters of credit. the applicable interest rates and certain of the fees fluctuate based on mplx's ratio of consolidated total debt (as defined in the mplx credit agreement) as of the end of each fiscal quarter to consolidated ebitda (as defined in the mplx credit agreement) for the prior four fiscal quarters, or the credit ratings in effect from time to time on mplx's long-term debt subsequent to the rating date (as defined in the mplx credit agreement). the mplx credit agreement includes certain representations and warranties, affirmative and restrictive covenants and events of default that we consider to be usual and customary for an agreement of this type, including a financial covenant that requires mplx to maintain a ratio of consolidated total debt as of the end of each fiscal quarter to consolidated ebitda for the prior four fiscal quarters of no greater than 5.0 to 1.0 (or 5.5 to 1.0 during the six-month period following certain acquisitions). as of december 31, 2013 , mplx was in compliance with this debt covenant with a ratio of consolidated total debt to consolidated ebitda of 0.1 to 1.0. other covenants restrict mplx from incurring debt, creating liens on its assets and entering into transactions with affiliates. mplx was also in compliance with these other covenants contained in the mplx credit agreement. on december 18, 2013 , we entered into a three -year, $1.3 billion trade receivables securitization facility with a group of financial institutions that act as committed purchasers, conduit purchasers, letter of credit issuers and managing agents under the facility. the facility is evidenced by a receivables purchase agreement and a second amended and restated receivables sale agreement and replaces the previously existing accounts receivable facility that was set to expire on june 30, 2014 . the facility consists of one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, marathon petroleum company lp ( mpc lp ), selling or contributing on an on-going basis all of its trade receivables (including trade receivables acquired from marathon petroleum trading canada llc, a wholly-owned subsidiary of mpc lp), together with all related security and interests in the proceeds thereof, without recourse, to another wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote special purpose subsidiary, mpc trade receivables company llc ( trc ), in exchange for a combination of cash, equity or a subordinated note issued by trc to mpc lp. trc, in turn, has the ability to finance its purchase of the receivables from mpc lp by selling undivided ownership interests in qualifying trade receivables, together with all related security and interests in the proceeds thereof, without recourse, to the purchasing group in exchange for cash proceeds. the facility also provides for the issuance of letters of credit of up to an initial amount of $1.25 billion , provided that the aggregate credit exposure of the purchasing group is limited to no more than $1.3 billion at any one time. to the extent that trc retains an ownership interest in the receivables it has purchased or received from mpc lp, such interest will be included in our consolidated financial statements solely as a result of the consolidation of the financial statements of trc with those of mpc. the receivables sold or contributed to trc are available first and foremost to satisfy claims of the creditors of trc and are not available to satisfy the claims of creditors of mpc. trc has granted a security interest in all of its assets to the purchasing group to secure its obligations under the receivables purchase agreement. 54 table of contents proceeds from the sale of undivided percentage ownership interests in qualifying receivables under the facility will be reflected as debt on our consolidated balance sheet, none of which was outstanding as of december 31, 2013 . we will remain responsible for servicing the receivables sold to the purchasing group. trc pays floating-rate interest charges and usage fees on amounts outstanding under the facility, if any, and certain other fees related to the administration of the facility and letters of credit that are issued and outstanding under the facility. the receivables purchase agreement and second amended and restated receivables sale agreement include representations and covenants that we consider usual and customary for arrangements of this type. trade receivables are subject to customary criteria, limits and reserves before being deemed to qualify for sale by trc pursuant to the facility. in addition, further purchases of qualified trade receivables under the facility are subject to termination, and trc may be subject to default fees, upon the occurrence of certain amortization events that are included in the receivables purchase agreement, which we consider to be usual and customary for arrangements of this type. our intention is to maintain an investment grade credit profile. as of december 31, 2013 , the credit ratings on our senior unsecured debt were at or above investment grade level as follows. rating agency rating moody's baa2 (positive outlook) standard &amp; poor's bbb (stable outlook) the ratings reflect the respective views of the rating agencies. although it is our intention to maintain a credit profile that supports an investment grade rating, there is no assurance that these ratings will continue for any given period of time. the ratings may be revised or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies if, in their respective judgments, circumstances so warrant. neither the credit agreement, the mplx credit agreement nor our trade receivables securitization facility contains credit rating triggers that would result in the acceleration of interest, principal or other payments in the event that our credit ratings are downgraded. however, any downgrades of our senior unsecured debt to below investment grade ratings would increase the applicable interest rates, yields and other fees payable under the credit agreement and our trade receivables securitization facility. in addition, a downgrade of our senior unsecured debt rating to below investment grade levels could, under certain circumstances, decrease the amount of trade receivables that are eligible to be sold under our trade receivables securitization facility, impact our ability to purchase crude oil on an unsecured basis and could result in us having to post a letter of credit under an existing transportation services agreement. debt-to-total-capital ratio our debt-to-total capital ratio (total debt to total debt-plus-equity) was 23 percent and 22 percent at december 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. december 31, (in millions) 2013 2012 long-term debt due within one year $ 23 $ 19 long-term debt 3,373 3,342 total debt $ 3,396 $ 3,361 calculation of debt-to-total capital ratio: total debt $ 3,396 $ 3,361 plus equity 11,332 12,105 total debt plus equity $ 14,728 $ 15,466 debt-to-total capital ratio 23 % 22 % capital requirements we have a capital and investment budget for 2014 of $2.43 billion , excluding capitalized interest. additional details related to the 2014 capital and investment budget are discussed in the capital budget outlook section below. on february 1, 2013, we acquired the galveston bay refinery and related assets. pursuant to the purchase and sale agreement, we may be required to pay bp a contingent earnout of up to an additional $700 million over six years, subject to certain conditions. 55 table of contents we made contributions to our funded pension plans in late 2013. therefore, we do not anticipate any additional contributions will be made in 2014. on january 25, 2014 , our board of directors approved a 42 cents per share dividend, payable march 10, 2014 to stockholders of record at the close of business on february 19, 2014 . at the beginning of 2013, we had total outstanding repurchase authorizations of $650 million. on january 30, 2013, we announced that our board of directors approved an additional $2.0 billion share repurchase authorization through december 2014. on september 26, 2013, we announced that our board of directors approved an additional $2.0 billion share repurchase authorization through september 2015 . during 2013 , the final shares from the $500 million asr program initiated in 2012 were delivered to us and we paid $2.79 billion to acquire 36 million common shares through open market share repurchases. in addition, at december 31, 2013 we had agreements to acquire additional common shares for $12 million , which were settled in early january 2014. as of december 31, 2013 , we had total outstanding repurchase authorizations of $1.86 billion , which expire in september 2015. we may utilize various methods to effect additional repurchases, which could include open market purchases, negotiated block transactions, asrs or open market solicitations for shares, some of which may be effected through rule 10b5-1 plans. the timing and amount of future repurchases, if any, will depend upon several factors, including market and business conditions, and such repurchases may be discontinued at any time. the above discussion contains forward-looking statements with respect to share repurchase authorizations. factors that could affect the share repurchase authorizations and the timing of any repurchases include, but are not limited to business conditions, availability of liquidity and the market price of our common stock. these factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. contractual cash obligations the table below provides aggregated information on our consolidated obligations to make future payments under existing contracts as of december 31, 2013 . the contractual obligations detailed below do not include our contractual obligations to mplx under various fee-based commercial agreements as these transactions are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. (in millions) total 2014 2015-2016 2017-2018 later years long-term debt (a) $ 5,723 $ 170 $ 1,078 $ 269 $ 4,206 capital lease obligations (b) 516 46 92 89 289 operating lease obligations 969 191 336 201 241 purchase obligations: (c) crude oil, feedstock, refined product and renewable fuel contracts (d) 13,689 12,017 1,005 429 238 transportation and related contracts 4,016 214 590 777 2,435 contracts to acquire property, plant and equipment (e)(f) 1,740 551 1,051 138 service, materials and other contracts (g) 1,857 408 500 364 585 total purchase obligations 21,302 13,190 3,146 1,708 3,258 other long-term liabilities reported in the consolidated balance sheet (h) 1,141 74 131 279 657 total contractual cash obligations $ 29,651 $ 13,671 $ 4,783 $ 2,546 $ 8,651 (a) includes interest payments for our senior notes and commitment and administrative fees for our credit agreement, the mplx credit agreement and our trade receivables securitization facility. (b) capital lease obligations represent future minimum payments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. pension and other postretirement benefit obligations accounting for pension and other postretirement benefit obligations involves numerous assumptions, the most significant of which relate to the following: the discount rate for measuring the present value of future plan obligations; the expected long-term return on plan assets; the rate of future increases in compensation levels; and health care cost projections. we utilize the work of third-party actuaries to assist in the measurement of these obligations. we have selected different discount rates for our funded pension plans and our unfunded retiree health care plans due to the different projected benefit payment patterns. the selected rates are compared to various similar bond indexes for reasonableness. in determining the assumed discount rates, we use our third-party actuary's discount rate model. this model calculates an equivalent single discount rate for the projected benefit plan cash flows using a yield curve derived from aa bond yields. the yield curve represents a series of annualized individual spot discount rates from 0.5 to 99 years. the bonds used have an average rating of aa or higher by a recognized rating agency and generally only non-callable bonds are included. outlier bonds that have a yield to maturity that deviate significantly from the average yield within each maturity grouping are not included. each issue is required to have at least $250 million par value outstanding. 62 table of contents of the assumptions used to measure the year-end obligations and estimated annual net periodic benefit cost, the discount rate has the most significant effect on the periodic benefit cost reported for the plans. decreasing the discount rates of 4.30 percent for our pension plans and 4.95 percent for our other postretirement benefit plans by 0.25 percent would increase pension obligations and other postretirement benefit plan obligations by $39 million and $25 million, respectively, and would increase defined benefit pension expense and other postretirement benefit plan expense by $3 million and $3 million, respectively. the long-term asset rate of return assumption considers the asset mix of the plans (currently targeted at approximately 62 percent equity securities and 38 percent fixed income securities for the funded pension plans), past performance and other factors. certain components of the asset mix are modeled with various assumptions regarding inflation and returns. in addition, our long-term asset rate of return assumption is compared to those of other companies and to historical returns for reasonableness. after evaluating activity in the capital markets, along with the current and projected plan investments, we reduced the asset rate of return from 7.50 percent to 7.00 percent effective for 2014. we used the 7.50 percent long-term rate of return to determine our 2013 defined benefit pension expense. decreasing the 7.00 percent asset rate of return assumption by 0.25 percent would increase our defined benefit pension expense by $4 million. compensation change assumptions are based on historical experience, anticipated future management actions and demographics of the benefit plans. health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook and an assessment of likely long-term trends. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk general we are exposed to market risks related to the volatility of crude oil and refined product prices. we employ various strategies, including the use of commodity derivative instruments, to hedge the risks related to these price fluctuations. we are also exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. as of december 31, 2013 , we did not have any financial derivative instruments to hedge the risks related to interest rate fluctuations; however, we have used them in the past, and we continually monitor the market and our exposure and may enter into these agreements again in the future. we are at risk for changes in fair value of all of our derivative instruments; however, such risk should be mitigated by price or rate changes related to the underlying commodity or financial transaction. we believe that our use of derivative instruments, along with our risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose us to material adverse consequences. while the use of derivative instruments could materially affect our results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods, we believe that the use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity. seerisk factors 28 risk factors, item 3. legal proceedings, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, includes forward-looking statements. you can identify our forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, believe, potential, estimate, expect, forecast, goal, intend, plan, predict, project, seek, target, could, may, should, will, would or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. in accordance with safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to, or statements that are subject to risks, contingencies or uncertainties that relate to: future levels of revenues, refining and marketing gross margins, operating costs, retail gasoline and distillate gross margins, merchandise margins, income from operations, net income or earnings per share; anticipated volumes of feedstock, throughput, sales or shipments of refined products; anticipated levels of regional, national and worldwide prices of crude oil and refined products; anticipated levels of crude oil and refined product inventories; future levels of capital, environmental or maintenance expenditures, general and administrative and other expenses; the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital or maintenance projects; business strategies, growth opportunities and expected investments, including planned equity investments in pipeline projects; expectations regarding the acquisition or divestiture of assets; our share repurchase authorizations, including the timing and amounts of any common stock repurchases; the effect of restructuring or reorganization of business components; the potential effects of judicial or other proceedings on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; and the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, or federal, foreign, state or local regulatory authorities, or plaintiffs in litigation. we have based our forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and our company. we caution that these statements are not guarantees of future performance, and you should not rely unduly on them, as they involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that we cannot predict. in addition, we have based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. while our management considers these assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. accordingly, our actual results may differ materially from the future performance that we have expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements. differences between actual results and any future performance suggested in our forward-looking statements could result from a variety of factors, including the following: volatility or degradation in general economic, market, industry or business conditions; an easing or lifting of the u.s. crude oil export ban; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks; the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to agree on and to influence crude oil price and production controls; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of refined products such as gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, home heating oil and petrochemicals; foreign imports of refined products; refining industry overcapacity or under capacity; changes in the cost or availability of third-party vessels, pipelines and other means of transportation for crude oil, feedstocks and refined products; the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels and alternative-fuel vehicles and laws mandating such fuels or vehicles; fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products, including seasonal fluctuations; 1 table of contents political and economic conditions in nations that consume refined products, including the united states, and in crude oil producing regions, including the middle east, africa, canada and south america; actions taken by our competitors, including pricing adjustments, expansion of retail activities, and the expansion and retirement of refining capacity in response to market conditions; completion of pipeline projects within the u.s.; changes in fuel and utility costs for our facilities; failure to realize the benefits projected for capital projects, or cost overruns associated with such projects; modifications to mplx lp earnings and distribution growth objectives; the ability to successfully implement growth opportunities; the ability to successfully integrate the acquired hess corporation retail operations and achieve the strategic and other expected objectives relating to the acquisition including any expected synergies; the ability to realize the strategic benefits of joint venture opportunities; accidents or other unscheduled shutdowns affecting our refineries, machinery, pipelines or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers; unusual weather conditions and natural disasters, which can unforeseeably affect the price or availability of crude oil and other feedstocks and refined products; acts of war, terrorism or civil unrest that could impair our ability to produce or transport refined products or receive feedstocks; state and federal environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, including the cost of compliance with the renewable fuel standard; rulings, judgments or settlements and related expenses in litigation or other legal, tax or regulatory matters, including unexpected environmental remediation costs, in excess of any reserves or insurance coverage; labor and material shortages; the maintenance of satisfactory relationships with labor unions and joint venture partners; the ability and willingness of parties with whom we have material relationships to perform their obligations to us; the market price of our common stock and its impact on our share repurchase authorizations; changes in the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and trade credit, changes in the availability of unsecured credit and changes affecting the credit markets generally; and the other factors described in item 1a. risk factors. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements except to the extent required by applicable law. 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview marathon petroleum corporation ( mpc ) was incorporated in delaware on november 9, 2009. we have 127 years of experience in the energy business with roots tracing back to the formation of the ohio oil company in 1887. we are one of the largest independent petroleum product refining, marketing, retail and transportation businesses in the united states and the largest east of the mississippi. our operations consist of three reportable operating segments: refining &amp; marketing; speedway; and pipeline transportation. each of these segments is organized and managed based upon the nature of the products and services it offers. refining &amp; marketing refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our seven refineries in the gulf coast and midwest regions of the united states, purchases refined products and ethanol for resale and distributes refined products through various means, including barges, terminals and trucks that we own or operate. we sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, buyers on the spot market, our speedway business segment and to independent entrepreneurs who operate marathon retail outlets. speedway sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market in the midwest, east coast and southeast. pipeline transportation transports crude oil and other feedstocks to our refineries and other locations, delivers refined products to wholesale and retail market areas and includes the aggregated operations of mplx lp. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 11 for operating segment and geographic financial information, which is incorporated herein by reference. corporate history and structure mpc was incorporated in 2009 in connection with an internal restructuring of marathon oil corporation ( marathon oil ). on may 25, 2011, the marathon oil board of directors approved the spinoff of its refining, marketing &amp; transportation business ( rm&amp;t business ) into an independent, publicly traded company, mpc, through the distribution of mpc common stock to the stockholders of marathon oil common stock on june 30, 2011 (the spinoff ). following the spinoff, marathon oil retained no ownership interest in mpc, and each company had separate public ownership, boards of directors and management. all subsidiaries and equity method investments not contributed by marathon oil to mpc remained with marathon oil and, together with marathon oil, are referred to as the marathon oil companies. on july 1, 2011, our common stock began trading regular-way on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ) under the ticker symbol mpc. recent developments on september 30, 2014, we acquired from hess corporation ( hess ) all of its retail locations, transport operations and shipper history on various pipelines, including approximately 40 thousand barrels per day ( mbpd ) on colonial pipeline, for $2.82 billion . we refer to these assets as hess' retail operations and related assets and substantially all of these assets are part of our speedway segment. this acquisition significantly expands our speedway presence from nine to 22 states throughout the east coast and southeast and is aligned with our strategy to grow higher-valued, stable cash flow businesses. this acquisition also enables us to further leverage our integrated refining and transportation operations, providing an outlet for an incremental 200 mbpd of assured sales from our refining system. the transaction was funded with a combination of debt and available cash. our financial results and operating statistics for the periods prior to the acquisition do not include amounts for hess' retail operations and related assets. in july 2014, we exercised our option to acquire a 35 percent ownership interest in enbridge inc.'s southern access extension ( sax ) pipeline, which will run from flanagan, ill. to patoka, ill. and is expected to be operational in late 2015. this option resulted from our agreement to be the anchor shipper on the sax pipeline and our commitment to the sandpiper pipeline project as discussed below. during 2014 , we made contributions of $120 million to illinois extension pipeline company, llc ( illinois extension pipeline ) to fund our portion of the construction costs incurred-to-date on the sax pipeline project. on april 1, 2014, we purchased a facility in cincinnati, ohio from felda iffco sdn bhd, malaysia for $40 million . the plant currently produces biodiesel, glycerin and other by-products. the capacity of the plant is approximately 60 million gallons per year. 3 table of contents in march 2014, we acquired from chevron raven ridge pipe line company an additional seven percent interest in explorer pipeline company ( explorer ) for $77 million , bringing our ownership interest to 25 percent . explorer owns approximately 1,900 miles of refined products pipeline from lake charles, louisiana to hammond, indiana. in november 2013, we agreed with enbridge energy partners l.p. ( enbridge energy partners ) to serve as an anchor shipper for the sandpiper pipeline, which will run from beaver lodge, north dakota to superior, wisconsin. we also agreed to fund 37.5 percent of the construction of the sandpiper pipeline project, which is currently estimated to cost $2.6 billion, of which approximately $1.0 billion is our share. we made contributions of $192 million during 2014 and have contributed $216 million since project inception. in exchange for our commitment to be an anchor shipper and our investment in the project, we will earn an approximate 27 percent equity interest in enbridge energy partners' north dakota system when the sandpiper pipeline is placed into service, which is expected to be in 2017. enbridge energy partners' north dakota system currently includes approximately 240 miles of crude oil gathering pipelines connected to a transportation pipeline that is approximately 730 miles long. we will also have the option to increase our ownership interest to approximately 30 percent through additional investments in future system improvements. on august 1, 2013 , we acquired from mitsui &amp; co. (u.s.a.), inc. its interests in three ethanol companies for $75 million . under the purchase agreement, we acquired an additional 24 percent interest in the andersons clymers ethanol llc ( tace ), bringing our ownership interest to 60 percent ; a 34 percent interest in the andersons ethanol investment llc ( taei ), which holds a 50 percent ownership in the andersons marathon ethanol llc ( tame ), bringing our direct and indirect ownership interest in tame to 67 percent ; and a 40 percent interest in the andersons albion ethanol llc ( taae ), which owns an ethanol production facility in albion, michigan. on october 1, 2013, our ownership interest in taae increased to 43 percent as a result of taae acquiring one of the owner's interest. on february 1, 2013, we acquired from bp products north america inc. and bp pipelines (north america) inc. (collectively, bp ) the 451,000 barrel per calendar day refinery in texas city, texas, three intrastate natural gas liquid pipelines originating at the refinery, four light product terminals, branded-jobber marketing contract assignments for the supply of approximately 1,200 branded sites, a 1,040 megawatt electric cogeneration facility and a 50 mbpd allocation of space on the colonial pipeline. we refer to these assets as the galveston bay refinery and related assets. we paid $1.49 billion for these assets, which included $935 million for inventory. pursuant to the purchase and sale agreement, we may also be required to pay bp a contingent earnout of up to an additional $700 million over six years, subject to certain conditions. in july 2014, we paid bp $180 million for the first period's contingent earnout. these assets are part of our refining &amp; marketing and pipeline transportation segments. our financial results and operating statistics for the periods prior to the acquisition do not include amounts for the galveston bay refinery and related assets. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 5 for additional information on these acquisitions and investments. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 26 for information regarding our future contributions to the sax pipeline project and the sandpiper pipeline project. mplx lp in 2012, we formed mplx lp ( mplx ), a master limited partnership, to own, operate, develop and acquire pipelines and other midstream assets related to the transportation and storage of crude oil, refined products and other hydrocarbon-based products. on october 31, 2012, mplx completed its initial public offering of 19.9 million common units, which represented the sale by us of a 26.4 percent interest in mplx. as of december 31, 2014 , we owned a 71.5 percent interest in mplx, including the two percent general partner interest, and we consolidate this entity for financial reporting purposes since we have a controlling financial interest. mplx's initial assets consisted of a 51 percent general partner interest in mplx pipe line holdings lp ( pipe line holdings ), which owns a network of common carrier crude oil and product pipeline systems and associated storage assets in the midwest and gulf coast regions of the united states, and a 100 percent interest in a butane storage cavern in west virginia. we originally retained a 49 percent limited partner interest in pipe line holdings. on may 1, 2013, we sold a five percent interest in pipe line holdings to mplx for $100 million , which was financed by mplx with cash on hand. on march 1, 2014, we sold mplx a 13 percent interest in pipe line holdings for $310 million . mplx financed this transaction with $40 million of cash on-hand and $270 million of borrowings on its bank revolving credit agreement. 4 table of contents on october 30, 2014, we announced plans to substantially accelerate the growth of mplx, which is expected to provide unitholders an average annual distribution growth rate percentage in the mid-20s over the next five years as we build meaningful scale more quickly. we believe this increased scale provides mplx greater flexibility to fund organic projects and to pursue acquisition opportunities. on december 1, 2014, we sold and contributed interests in pipe line holdings totaling 30.5 percent to mplx for $600 million in cash and 2.9 million mplx common units valued at $200 million . mplx financed the sales portion of this transaction with $600 million of borrowings on its bank revolving credit facility. on december 8, 2014, mplx completed a public offering of 3.5 million common units at a price to the public of $66.68 per common unit, with net proceeds of $221 million . mplx used the net proceeds from this offering to repay borrowings under its bank revolving credit facility and for general partnership purposes. on december 10, 2014, we exercised our right to maintain our two percent general partner interest in mplx by purchasing 130 thousand general partner units for $9 million . on february 12, 2015, mplx completed its initial underwritten public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of four percent unsecured senior notes due february 15, 2025 (the senior notes ). the senior notes were offered at a price to the public of 99.64 percent of par. the net proceeds of this offering were used to repay the amounts outstanding under its bank revolving credit facility, as well as for general partnership purposes. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 4 for additional information on mplx. our competitive strengths high quality refining assets we believe we are the largest crude oil refiner in the midwest and the fourth largest in the united states based on crude oil refining capacity. we own a seven -plant refinery network, with approximately 1.7 million barrels per calendar day ( mmbpcd ) of crude oil throughput capacity. our refineries process a wide range of crude oils, including heavy and sour crude oils, which can generally be purchased at a discount to sweet crude oil, and produce transportation fuels such as gasoline and distillates, specialty chemicals and other refined products. while we have historically processed significant quantities of heavy and sour crude oils, our refineries have the ability to process up to 68 percent light sweet crude oils. strategic location the geographic locations of our refineries provide us with strategic advantages. located in petroleum administration for defense district ( padd ) ii and padd iii, which consist of states in the midwest and the gulf coast regions of the united states, our refineries have the ability to procure crude oil from a variety of supply sources, including domestic, canadian and other foreign sources, which provides us with flexibility to optimize crude supply costs. for example, geographic proximity to various united states shale oil regions and canadian crude oil supply sources allows our refineries access to price-advantaged crude oils and lower transportation costs than certain of our competitors. our refinery locations and midstream distribution system also allow us to access refined product export markets and to serve a broad range of key end-user markets across the united states quickly and cost-effectively. 5 table of contents * as of december 31, 2014 extensive midstream distribution networks our assets give us extensive flexibility and optionality to respond promptly to dynamic market conditions, including weather-related and marketplace disruptions. we believe the relative scale of our transportation and distribution assets and operations distinguishes us from other refining and marketing companies. we currently own, lease or have ownership interests in approximately 8,300 miles of crude oil and products pipelines. through our ownership interests in mplx, we are one of the largest petroleum pipeline companies in the united states on the basis of total volume delivered. we also own one of the largest private domestic fleets of inland petroleum product barges and one of the largest terminal operations in the united states, as well as trucking and rail assets. we operate this system in coordination with our refining and marketing network, which enables us to optimize feedstock and other raw material supplies and refined product distribution, and further allows for important economies of scale across our system. 6 table of contents general partner and sponsor of mplx our investment in mplx should allow us to enhance our share price through our limited partner and general partner interests which tend to receive higher market multiples. mplx also provides us an efficient vehicle to invest in organic projects and pursue acquisitions of midstream assets. mplx's significant liquidity and access to the capital markets should provide us a strong foundation to execute our strategy for growing our midstream logistics business. our role as the general partner allows us to maintain strategic control of the assets so we can continue to optimize our refinery feedstock and distribution networks. we have an extensive portfolio of midstream assets that can potentially be sold and/or contributed to mplx, providing mplx with a competitive advantage. as of december 31, 2014 , these assets included: approximately 5,400 miles of crude oil and products pipelines that mpc owns, leases or has an ownership interest; 19 owned or leased inland towboats and 211 owned or leased inland barges; 63 owned and operated light product terminals with approximately 20 million barrels of storage capacity and 192 loading lanes; 18 owned and operated asphalt terminals with approximately 5 million barrels of storage capacity and 65 loading lanes; one leased and two non-operated, partially-owned light product terminals; 2,210 owned or leased railcars; 59 million barrels of tank and cavern storage capacity at our refineries; 25 rail and 24 truck loading racks at our refineries; seven owned and 11 non-owned docks at our refineries; a condensate splitter at our canton refinery; and approximately 20 billion gallons of fuels distribution. we continue to focus resources on growing this portfolio of midstream assets, including investments in the sandpiper and sax pipeline projects and a condensate splitter project at our catlettsburg refinery. we broadly estimate these assets and growth projects can generate annual earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) of $1.6 billion. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional information on these pipeline investments. competitively positioned marketing operations we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers within our market area. we have two strong retail brands: speedway and marathon . we believe that speedway llc, a wholly-owned subsidiary, operates the second largest chain of company-owned and operated retail gasoline and convenience stores in the united states, with approximately 2,750 convenience stores in 22 states throughout the midwest, east coast and southeast. the marathon brand is an established motor fuel brand in the midwest and southeast regions of the united states, comprised of approximately 5,460 retail outlets operated by independent entrepreneurs in 19 states as of december 31, 2014 . in addition, as part of the acquisition of the galveston bay refinery and related assets in 2013 and hess' retail operations and related assets in 2014, we obtained retail marketing contracts that provide us with the opportunity to convert the associated retail outlets to the marathon brand. as of december 31, 2014 , we had outstanding retail marketing contract assignments for approximately 590 retail outlets. we believe our distribution system allows us to maximize the sales value of our products and minimize cost. attractive growth opportunities we believe we have attractive growth opportunities. our capital and investment budget for 2015 of $2.53 billion includes $1.28 billion for the refining &amp; marketing segment (which includes $234 million for midstream investments), $452 million for the speedway segment and $659 million for the pipeline transportation segment. our refining &amp; marketing segment's midstream investments include building condensate splitters at our canton, ohio and catlettsburg, kentucky refineries to increase our capacity to process condensate from the utica shale region. the condensate splitter at our canton refinery began operation at the end of 2014 and we expect to complete the condensate splitter at our catlettsburg refinery in 2015. our refining &amp; marketing segment's investments also include refining margin enhancement projects, including projects to further capture synergies at our galveston bay refinery, increase our distillate production, expand our export capacity and increase our capacity to process condensates and light crude oils. our speedway segment investments include converting and integrating hess' retail operations and related assets, constructing new convenience stores and rebuilding existing locations. we also anticipate acquiring high quality stores through opportunistic acquisitions. 7 table of contents our pipeline transportation segment's midstream investments include investments in equity interests in the sandpiper and sax pipeline projects that will transport crude oil from growing north american hydrocarbon production regions to our refineries. mplx is also pursuing the cornerstone pipeline project, which will connect the utica shale production to our canton, ohio refinery. there are also potential opportunities for additional build-out projects to provide transportation solutions from the utica shale region to a wide range of markets. established track record of profitability and diversified income stream we have demonstrated an ability to achieve positive financial results throughout all stages of the refining cycle. we believe our business mix and strategies position us well to continue to achieve competitive financial results. income generated by our speedway segment, which was significantly expanded with the acquisition of hess' retail operations and related assets, and our pipeline transportation segment is less sensitive to business cycles while our refining &amp; marketing segment enables us to generate significant income and cash flow when market conditions are more favorable. strong financial position as of december 31, 2014 , we had $1.49 billion in cash and cash equivalents and $3.80 billion in unused committed borrowing facilities, excluding mplx's credit facility. we had $6.64 billion of debt at year-end, which represented 37 percent of our total capitalization. this combination of strong liquidity and manageable leverage provides financial flexibility to fund our growth projects and to pursue our business strategies. our business strategies achieve and maintain top-tier safety and environmental performance we remain committed to operating our assets in a safe and reliable manner and targeting continuous improvement in our safety record across all of our operations. we have a history of safe and reliable operations, which was demonstrated again in 2014 with a solid performance compared to the industry average. four of our refineries have earned designation as a u.s. occupational safety and health administration ( osha ) voluntary protection program ( vpp ) star site. in addition, we remain committed to environmental stewardship by continuing to improve the efficiency and reliability of our operations. we proactively address our regulatory requirements and encourage our operations to improve their environmental performance, with our 2014 designated environmental incidents showing an additional 15 percent reduction over 2013 results. our robinson, illinois refinery had no significant designated environmental incidents in 2014, and our galveston bay refinery achieved further reduction of approximately 87 percent in designated environmental incidents since we acquired it on february 1, 2013. grow higher-valued, stable cash flow businesses we intend to allocate significantly more capital to grow our midstream and retail businesses. these businesses typically have more predictable and stable income and cash flows compared to our refining operations and we believe investors assign a higher value to businesses with stable cash flows. our capital and investment budget for 2015 includes investments in both our refining &amp; marketing and pipeline transportation segments related to midstream assets. we have budgeted $234 million for midstream assets that are part of the refining &amp; marketing segment, $659 million for the pipeline transportation segment and $452 million for the speedway segment. we plan to substantially accelerate the growth of mplx and intend to evolve it into a large cap, diversified mlp. we intend to increase revenue on the mplx network of pipeline systems through higher utilization of existing assets, by capitalizing on organic investment opportunities that may arise from the growth of mpc's operations and from increased third-party activity in mplx's areas of operations. we also plan to pursue acquisitions of midstream assets through mplx, both within our existing geographic footprint and in new areas. we expect there will continue to be significant investments in infrastructure to connect growing north american crude oil production with existing refining assets and to move refined products to wholesale and retail marketing customers. we intend to aggressively participate in this infrastructure build-out and grow our midstream business primarily through mplx. we significantly expanded speedway's presence along the east coast and southeast through our acquisition of hess' retail operations and related assets. we intend to continue growing speedway's sales and profitability by focusing on the conversion and integration of these locations, from which we expect to realize increased merchandise sales and other synergies. we also remain focused on organic growth through constructing new stores, rebuilding old stores, acquiring high quality stores through opportunistic acquisitions and improving margins at our existing operations. we have identified numerous opportunities for new convenience stores or store rebuilds in our existing market, western pennsylvania and tennessee. in addition, our highly successful speedy rewards customer loyalty program, which has more than 3.9 million active members as of december 31, 2014 , provides us with a unique competitive advantage and opportunity to increase our speedway customer base with existing and new speedway locations, including the stores recently acquired from hess. 8 table of contents deliver top quartile refining performance our refineries are well positioned to benefit from the growing crude oil and condensate production in north america, including the bakken, eagle ford and utica shale regions, along with the canadian oil sands. we are also well positioned to export distillates, gasoline and other products. we intend to enhance our margins in the refining &amp; marketing segment by capturing synergies at our galveston bay refinery, increasing our condensate and light crude oil processing capacity, growing our distillate production and expanding our exports. for example, we recently completed construction of a condensate splitter at our canton refinery and we have a project underway to increase condensate processing capacity at our catlettsburg refinery. we also have projects to increase light crude oil processing capacity at our robinson refinery, to increase distillate production at our garyville, louisiana; galveston bay and robinson refineries and to expand the export capacity at our garyville and galveston bay refineries. we will continue to evaluate opportunities to expand our existing asset base, with an emphasis on increasing distillate production, light crude oil processing and export capabilities and synergistic opportunities at our galveston bay refinery. sustain focus on shareholder returns we intend to continue our focus on the return of capital to shareholders in the form of a strong and growing base dividend, supplemented by share repurchases. we have increased our quarterly dividend by 150 percent since becoming a stand-alone company in june 2011 and our board of directors has authorized share repurchases totaling $8.0 billion . through open market purchases and two accelerated share repurchase ( asr ) programs, we repurchased 89 million shares of our common stock for approximately $6.27 billion , representing approximately 25 percent of our outstanding common shares when we became a stand-alone company in june 2011. after the effects of these repurchases, $1.73 billion of the $8.0 billion total authorization was available for future repurchases as of december 31, 2014 . increase assured sales volumes at our marathon brand and speedway locations we consider assured sales as those sales we make to marathon brand customers, our speedway operations and to our wholesale customers with whom we have required minimum volume sales contracts. we believe having assured sales brings ratability to our distribution systems, provides a solid base to enhance our overall supply reliability and allows us to efficiently and effectively optimize our operations between our refineries, our pipelines and our terminals. the marathon brand has been a consistent vehicle for sales volume growth in existing and contiguous markets. the acquisition of hess' retail operations and related assets significantly expands our speedway presence from nine to 22 states throughout the east coast and southeast and enables us to further leverage our integrated refining and transportation operations, providing an outlet for an incremental 200 mbpd of assured sales from our refining system. utilize and enhance our high quality employee workforce we utilize our high quality employee workforce by continuing to leverage our commercial skills. in addition, we continue to enhance our workforce through selective hiring practices and effective training programs on safety, environmental stewardship and other professional and technical skills. the above discussion contains forward-looking statements with respect to our competitive strengths and business strategies, including our expected investments, share repurchase authorizations, pursuit of potential acquisitions and other growth opportunities as well as the earnings potential of our portfolio of midstream assets and growth projects that can potentially be sold and/or contributed to mplx. there can be no assurance that we will be successful, in whole or in part, in carrying out our business strategies, including our expected investments, share repurchase program or pursuit of potential acquisitions and other growth opportunities, or that our portfolio of midstream assets and growth projects that can potentially be sold and/or contributed to mplx will achieve expected earnings. factors that could affect our investments include, but are not limited to, the actual amounts invested, which could differ materially from those estimated, and our success in making such investments. factors that could affect the share repurchase authorizations and the timing of any repurchases include, but are not limited to, business conditions, availability of liquidity and the market price of our common stock. factors that could affect the pursuit of potential acquisitions and other growth opportunities include, but are not limited to, our ability to implement and realize the benefits and synergies of our strategic initiatives, availability of liquidity, actions taken by competitors, regulatory approvals and operating performance. factors that could affect the earnings of our portfolio of midstream assets and growth projects that can potentially be sold and/or contributed to mplx include, but are not limited to, the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices and demand for crude oil, refined products, feedstocks or other hydrocarbon-based products and volatility in and/or degradation of market and industry conditions. these factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. for additional information on forward-looking statements and risks that can affect our business, see disclosures regarding forward-looking statements and item 1a. risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. 9 table of contents refining &amp; marketing refineries we currently own and operate seven refineries in the gulf coast and midwest regions of the united states with an aggregate crude oil refining capacity of 1,731 thousand barrels per calender day ( mbpcd ). during 2014 , our refineries processed 1,622 mbpd of crude oil and 184 mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. during 2013 , our refineries processed 1,589 mbpd of crude oil and 213 mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. the table below sets forth the location, crude oil refining capacity, tank storage capacity and number of tanks for each of our refineries as of december 31, 2014 . refinery crude oil refining capacity ( mbpcd ) (a) tank storage capacity ( million barrels ) number of tanks garyville, louisiana 522 16.8 78 galveston bay, texas city, texas 451 16.3 156 catlettsburg, kentucky 242 5.6 115 robinson, illinois 212 6.3 95 detroit, michigan 130 6.5 86 canton, ohio 90 3.0 75 texas city, texas 84 4.7 61 total 1,731 59.2 666 (a) refining throughput can exceed crude oil capacity due to the processing of other charge and blendstocks in addition to crude oil and the timing of planned turnaround and major maintenance activity. our refineries include crude oil atmospheric and vacuum distillation, fluid catalytic cracking, hydrocracking, catalytic reforming, coking, desulfurization and sulfur recovery units. the refineries process a wide variety of light and heavy crude oils purchased from various domestic and foreign suppliers. we produce numerous refined products, ranging from transportation fuels, such as reformulated gasolines, blend-grade gasolines intended for blending with ethanol and ultra-low sulfur diesel ( ulsd ) fuel, to heavy fuel oil and asphalt. additionally, we manufacture aromatics, propane, propylene, cumene and sulfur. see the refined product marketing section for further information about the products we produce. our refineries are integrated with each other via pipelines, terminals and barges to maximize operating efficiency. the transportation links that connect our refineries allow the movement of intermediate products between refineries to optimize operations, produce higher margin products and efficiently utilize our processing capacity. for example, naphtha may be moved from texas city to robinson where excess reforming capacity is available. also, shipping intermediate products between facilities during partial refinery shutdowns allows us to utilize processing capacity that is not directly affected by the shutdown work. garyville, louisiana refinery . our garyville, louisiana refinery is located along the mississippi river in southeastern louisiana between new orleans and baton rouge. the garyville refinery is configured to process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, fuel-grade coke, asphalt, polymer-grade propylene, propane, slurry, sulfur and dry gas. the refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products. a major expansion project was completed in 2009 that increased garyville's crude oil refining capacity, making it one of the largest refineries in the u.s. our garyville refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. galveston bay, texas city, texas refinery . our galveston bay refinery, which we acquired on february 1, 2013, is located on the texas gulf coast approximately 30 miles southeast of houston, texas. the refinery can process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, aromatics, refinery-grade propylene, heavy fuel oil, fuel-grade coke, dry gas and sulfur. the refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products. our cogeneration facility, which supplies the galveston bay refinery, currently has 1,055 megawatts of electrical production capacity and can produce 4.3 million pounds of steam per hour. approximately 45 percent of the power generated in 2014 was used at the refinery, with the remaining electricity being sold into the electricity grid. catlettsburg, kentucky refinery . our catlettsburg, kentucky refinery is located in northeastern kentucky on the western bank of the big sandy river, near the confluence with the ohio river. the catlettsburg refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, aromatics, propane and refinery-grade propylene. 10 table of contents robinson, illinois refinery . our robinson, illinois refinery is located in southeastern illinois. the robinson refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, propane, anode-grade coke, aromatics and slurry. the robinson refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. detroit, michigan refinery . our detroit, michigan refinery is located in southwest detroit. it is the only petroleum refinery currently operating in michigan. the detroit refinery processes sweet and heavy sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, fuel-grade coke, chemical-grade propylene, propane, slurry and sulfur. our detroit refinery earned designation as a michigan vpp star site in 2010. in the fourth quarter of 2012, we completed a heavy oil upgrading and expansion project that enabled the refinery to process up to an additional 80 mbpd of heavy sour crude oils, including canadian crude oils. canton, ohio refinery . our canton, ohio refinery is located approximately 60 miles south of cleveland, ohio. the canton refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils, including production from the nearby utica shale, into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, roofing flux, propane, refinery-grade propylene and slurry. in december 2014, we completed construction of a condensate splitter at our canton refinery, which increased our capacity to process condensate from the utica shale region. texas city, texas refinery . our texas city, texas refinery is located on the texas gulf coast adjacent to our galveston bay refinery, approximately 30 miles southeast of houston, texas. the refinery processes light sweet crude oils into gasoline, chemical-grade propylene, propane, aromatics, dry gas and slurry. our texas city refinery earned designation as an osha vpp star site in 2012. as of december 31, 2014 , our refineries had 25 rail loading racks and 24 truck loading racks and four of our refineries had a total of seven owned and 11 non-owned docks. total throughput in 2014 was 84 mbpd for the refinery loading racks and 911 mbpd for the refinery docks. planned maintenance activities, or turnarounds, requiring temporary shutdown of certain refinery operating units, are periodically performed at each refinery. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional detail. refined product yields the following table sets forth our refinery production by product group for each of the last three years. refined product yields ( mbpd ) 2014 2013 2012 gasoline 869 921 738 distillates 580 572 433 propane 35 37 26 feedstocks and special products 276 221 109 heavy fuel oil 25 31 18 asphalt 54 54 62 total 1,839 1,836 1,386 crude oil supply we obtain the crude oil we refine through negotiated term contracts and purchases or exchanges on the spot market. our term contracts generally have market-related pricing provisions. the following table provides information on our sources of crude oil for each of the last three years. the crude oil sourced outside of north america was acquired from various foreign national oil companies, production companies and trading companies. sources of crude oil refined ( mbpd ) 2014 2013 2012 united states 1,120 946 649 canada 223 255 195 middle east and other international 279 388 351 total 1,622 1,589 1,195 our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks and distribute our refined products through a variety of channels, including pipelines, trucks, railcars, ships and barges. during 2012, we began transporting condensate and crude oil by truck from the utica shale region to our canton refinery. 11 table of contents renewable fuels we currently own a biofuel production facility in cincinnati, ohio that produces biodiesel, glycerin and other by-products. the capacity of the plant is approximately 60 million gallons per year. we hold interests in ethanol production facilities in albion, michigan; clymers, indiana and greenville, ohio. these plants have a combined ethanol production capacity of 275 million gallons per year ( 18 mbpd) and are managed by a co-owner. refined product marketing we believe we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers and consumers within our 19 -state market area. independent retailers, wholesale customers, our marathon brand jobbers and speedway brand convenience stores, airlines, transportation companies and utilities comprise the core of our customer base. in addition, we sell gasoline, distillates and asphalt for export, primarily out of our garyville and galveston bay refineries. the following table sets forth our refined product sales destined for export by product group for the past three years. refined product sales destined for export ( mbpd ) 2014 2013 2012 gasoline 79 38 1 distillates 191 173 114 asphalt 5 6 8 other 1 total 275 218 123 the following table sets forth, as a percentage of total refined product sales volume, the sales of refined products to our different customer types for the past three years. refined product sales by customer type 2014 2013 2012 private-brand marketers, commercial and industrial customers, including spot market 73 % 75 % 72 % marathon-branded independent entrepreneurs 15 % 16 % 17 % speedway convenience stores 12 % 9 % 11 % 12 table of contents the following table sets forth the approximate number of retail outlets by state where independent entrepreneurs maintain marathon-branded retail outlets, as of december 31, 2014 . state approximate number of marathon retail outlets alabama 202 florida 523 georgia 297 illinois 344 indiana 648 kentucky 586 louisiana 1 maryland 1 michigan 753 minnesota 74 mississippi 38 north carolina 297 ohio 857 pennsylvania 60 south carolina 129 tennessee 328 virginia 129 west virginia 124 wisconsin 64 total 5,455 as of december 31, 2014 , we also had branded marketing contract assignments for retail outlets, primarily in florida, mississippi, tennessee and alabama and branded lessee dealer marketing contract assignments, primarily in connecticut, maryland and new york, which we acquired as either part of the galveston bay refinery and related assets acquisition in 2013 or the acquisition of hess' retail operations and related assets in 2014. as of december 31, 2014 , we had outstanding retail marketing contract assignments for approximately 590 retail outlets. the following table sets forth our refined product sales volumes by product group for each of the last three years. refined product sales by product group ( mbpd ) 2014 2013 2012 gasoline 1,116 1,126 916 distillates 623 615 463 propane 34 37 27 feedstocks and special products 268 214 112 heavy fuel oil 28 29 19 asphalt 56 54 62 total 2,125 2,075 1,599 gasoline and distillates . we sell gasoline, gasoline blendstocks and distillates (including no. 1 and no. 2 fuel oils, jet fuel, kerosene and diesel fuel) to wholesale customers, marathon-branded independent entrepreneurs and our speedway convenience stores and on the spot market. in addition, we sell diesel fuel and gasoline for export to international customers. we sold 55 percent of our gasoline sales volumes and 89 percent of our distillates sales volumes on a wholesale or spot market basis in 2014 . the demand for gasoline and distillates is seasonal in many of our markets, with demand typically at its highest levels during the summer months. 13 table of contents we have blended ethanol into gasoline for more than 20 years and began expanding our blending program in 2007, in part due to federal regulations that require us to use specified volumes of renewable fuels. ethanol volumes sold in blended gasoline were 78 mbpd in 2014 , 74 mbpd in 2013 and 68 mbpd in 2012 . we sell reformulated gasoline, which is also blended with ethanol, in 12 states in our marketing area. we also sell biodiesel-blended diesel fuel in 15 states in our marketing area. the future expansion or contraction of our ethanol and biodiesel blending programs will be driven by market economics and government regulations. propane . we produce propane at most of our refineries. propane is primarily used for home heating and cooking, as a feedstock within the petrochemical industry, for grain drying and as a fuel for trucks and other vehicles. our propane sales are typically split evenly between the home heating market and industrial consumers. feedstocks and special products . we are a producer and marketer of feedstocks and specialty products. product availability varies by refinery and includes propylene, raffinate, butane, benzene, xylene, molten sulfur, cumene and toluene. we market these products domestically to customers in the chemical, agricultural and fuel-blending industries. in addition, we produce fuel-grade coke at our garyville, detroit and galveston bay refineries, which is used for power generation and in miscellaneous industrial applications, and anode-grade coke at our robinson refinery, which is used to make carbon anodes for the aluminum smelting industry. our feedstocks and special products sales increased to 268 mbpd in 2014 from 214 mbpd in 2013 and 112 mbpd in 2012 primarily due to our galveston bay refinery. heavy fuel oil . we produce and market heavy residual fuel oil or related components, including slurry, at all of our refineries. heavy residual fuel oil is primarily used in the utility and ship bunkering (fuel) industries, though there are other more specialized uses of the product. asphalt . we have refinery-based asphalt production capacity of up to 101 mbpcd, which includes asphalt cements, polymer-modified asphalt, emulsified asphalt, industrial asphalts and roofing flux. we have a broad customer base, including asphalt-paving contractors, government entities (states, counties, cities and townships) and asphalt roofing shingle manufacturers. we sell asphalt in the domestic and export wholesale markets via rail, barge and vessel. 14 table of contents terminals as of december 31, 2014 , we owned and operated 63 light product and 18 asphalt terminals. our light product and asphalt terminals averaged 1,426 mbpd and 27 mbpd of throughput in 2014 , respectively. in addition, we distribute refined products through one leased light product terminal, two light product terminals in which we have partial ownership interests but do not operate and approximately 118 third-party light product and 10 third-party asphalt terminals in our market area. the following table sets forth additional details about our owned and operated terminals at december 31, 2014 . owned and operated terminals number of terminals tank storage capacity ( million barrels ) number of tanks number of loading lanes light product terminals: alabama 2 0.4 20 4 florida 4 2.8 83 22 georgia 4 0.9 38 9 illinois 4 1.2 44 14 indiana 6 2.9 72 17 kentucky 6 2.3 68 24 louisiana 1 0.1 9 2 michigan 9 2.3 89 28 north carolina 4 1.1 50 13 ohio 13 3.6 156 33 pennsylvania 1 0.2 8 2 south carolina 1 0.3 9 3 tennessee 4 1.0 44 12 west virginia 2 0.1 10 2 wisconsin 2 0.8 19 7 subtotal light product terminals 63 20.0 719 192 asphalt terminals: florida 1 0.2 4 3 illinois 2 0.1 33 6 indiana 2 0.5 19 6 kentucky 4 0.5 60 14 louisiana 1 0.1 11 2 michigan 1 8 ohio 4 2.1 74 10 pennsylvania 1 0.5 22 8 tennessee 2 0.5 44 8 subtotal asphalt terminals 18 4.5 267 65 total owned and operated terminals 81 24.5 986 257 15 table of contents transportation as of december 31, 2014 , our marine transportation operations included 18 owned and one leased towboat, as well as 199 owned and 12 leased barges that transport refined products and crude oil on the ohio, mississippi and illinois rivers and their tributaries and inter-coastal waterways. the following table sets forth additional details about our towboats and barges. class of equipment number in class capacity ( thousand barrels ) inland tank barges: (a) less than 25,000 barrels 61 886 25,000 barrels and over 150 4,392 total 211 5,278 inland towboats: less than 2,000 horsepower 2 2,000 horsepower and over 17 total 19 (a) all of our barges are double-hulled. as of december 31, 2014 , we owned 142 transport trucks and 151 trailers with an aggregate capacity of 1.4 million gallons for the movement of refined products and crude oil. in addition, we had 2,183 leased and 27 owned railcars of various sizes and capacities for movement and storage of refined products. the following table sets forth additional details about our railcars. number of railcars class of equipment owned leased total capacity per railcar general service tank cars 794 794 20,000-30,000 gallons high pressure tank cars 1,171 1,171 33,500 gallons open-top hoppers 27 218 245 4,000 cubic feet 27 2,183 2,210 speedway our speedway segment sells gasoline, diesel and merchandise through convenience stores that it owns and operates, primarily under the speedway and hess brands. we have the right to use the hess brand through september 30, 2017. we are in the process of converting convenience stores acquired from hess to the speedway brand, which we target to complete by the end of 2016. speedway convenience stores offer a wide variety of merchandise, including prepared foods, beverages and non-food items. speedway's speedy rewards loyalty program has been a highly successful loyalty program since its inception in 2004, with a consistently growing base of more than 3.9 million active members as of december 31, 2014 . due to speedway's ability to capture and analyze member-specific transactional data, speedway is able to offer the speedy rewards members discounts and promotions specific to their buying behavior. we believe speedy rewards is a key reason customers choose speedway over competitors and it continues to drive significant value for both speedway and our speedy rewards members. the demand for gasoline is seasonal, with the highest demand usually occurring during the summer driving season. margins from the sale of merchandise tend to be less volatile than margins from the retail sale of gasoline and diesel fuel. merchandise margin as a percent of total gross margin for speedway decreased in 2014, primarily related to the convenience stores acquired from hess. the following table sets forth speedway merchandise statistics for the past three years. speedway merchandise statistics 2014 2013 2012 merchandise sales (in millions) $ 3,611 $ 3,135 $ 3,058 merchandise gross margin (in millions) 975 825 795 merchandise as a percent of total gross margin 57 % 65 % 67 % 16 table of contents as of december 31, 2014 , speedway had 2,746 convenience stores in 22 states. the following table sets forth the number of convenience stores by state owned by our speedway segment as of december 31, 2014 . state number of convenience stores alabama 2 connecticut 1 delaware 4 florida 248 georgia 6 illinois 107 indiana 307 kentucky 144 massachusetts 117 michigan 303 new hampshire 12 new jersey 72 new york 243 north carolina 288 ohio 487 pennsylvania 105 rhode island 20 south carolina 61 tennessee 26 virginia 68 west virginia 62 wisconsin 63 total 2,746 pipeline transportation as of december 31, 2014 , we owned, leased or had ownership interests in approximately 8,300 miles of crude oil and products pipelines, of which approximately 2,900 miles are owned through our investments in mplx. mplx in 2012, we formed mplx, a master limited partnership, to own, operate, develop and acquire pipelines and other midstream assets related to the transportation and storage of crude oil, refined products and other hydrocarbon-based products. on october 31, 2012, mplx completed its initial public offering. as of december 31, 2014 , we owned a 71.5 percent interest in mplx, including the two percent general partner interest, and mplx's assets consisted of a 99.5 percent general partner interest in pipe line holdings, which owns common carrier pipeline systems through marathon pipe line llc ( mpl ) and ohio river pipe line llc ( orpl ), and a 100 percent interest in a one million barrel butane storage cavern in west virginia. 17 table of contents as of december 31, 2014 , pipe line holdings, through mpl and orpl, owned or leased and operated 1,004 miles of common carrier crude oil lines and 1,902 miles of common carrier products lines located in nine states and four tank farms in illinois and indiana with available storage capacity of 3.29 million barrels that is committed to mpc. the table below sets forth additional detail regarding these pipeline systems and storage assets as of december 31, 2014 . pipeline system or storage asset origin destination diameter ( inches ) length ( miles ) capacity (a) associated mpc refinery crude oil pipeline systems (mbpd): patoka, il to lima, oh crude system patoka, il lima, oh 20 -22 302 249 detroit, canton catlettsburg, ky and robinson, il crude system patoka, il catlettsburg, ky &amp; robinson, il 20 -24 484 495 catlettsburg, robinson detroit, mi crude system (b) samaria &amp; romulus, mi detroit, mi 16 61 197 detroit wood river, il to patoka, il crude system (b) wood river &amp; roxana, il patoka, il 12 -22 115 314 all midwest refineries inactive pipelines 42 n/a total 1,004 1,255 products pipeline systems (mbpd): garyville, la products system garyville, la zachary, la 20 -36 72 389 garyville texas city, tx products system texas city, tx pasadena, tx 16 -36 42 215 texas city, galveston bay orpl products system various various 6 -14 518 244 catlettsburg, canton robinson, il products system (b) various various 10 -16 1,171 548 robinson louisville, ky airport products system louisville, ky louisville, ky 6 -8 14 29 robinson inactive pipelines (b) 85 n/a total 1,902 1,425 wood river, il barge dock (mbpd) 78 garyville storage assets (thousand barrels): neal, wv butane cavern (c) 1,000 catlettsburg patoka, il tank farm 1,386 all midwest refineries wood river, il tank farm 419 all midwest refineries martinsville, il tank farm 738 detroit, canton lebanon, in tank farm 750 detroit, canton total 4,293 (a) all capacities reflect 100 percent of the pipeline systems' and barge dock's average capacity in thousands of barrels per day and 100 percent of the available storage capacity of our butane cavern and tank farms in thousand of barrels. (b) includes pipelines leased from third parties. (c) the neal, wv butane cavern is 100 percent owned by mplx. the pipe line holdings common carrier pipeline network is one of the largest petroleum pipeline systems in the united states, based on total volume delivered. third parties generated 12 percent of the crude oil and refined product shipments on these common carrier pipelines in 2014 , excluding volumes shipped by mpc under joint tariffs with third parties. these common carrier pipelines transported the volumes shown in the following table for each of the last three years. pipeline throughput (mbpd) (a)(b) 2014 2013 2012 crude oil pipelines 1,041 1,075 1,032 refined products pipelines 878 911 980 total 1,919 1,986 2,012 (a) mplx predecessor volumes reported in mplx's filings include our undivided joint interest crude oil pipeline systems for periods prior to mplx's initial public offering, which were not contributed to mplx. the undivided joint interest volumes are not included above. (b) volumes represent 100 percent of the throughput through these pipelines. 18 table of contents mpc-retained assets and investments we retained ownership interests in several crude oil and products pipeline systems and pipeline companies. mpc consolidated volumes transported through our common carrier pipelines, which include mplx and our undivided joint interests, are shown in the following table for each of the last three years. mpc consolidated pipeline throughput ( mbpd ) 2014 2013 2012 crude oil pipelines 1,241 1,293 1,191 refined products pipelines 878 911 980 total 2,119 2,204 2,171 as of december 31, 2014 , we owned undivided joint interests in the following common carrier crude oil pipeline systems. pipeline system origin destination diameter ( inches ) length ( miles ) ownership interest operated by mpl capline st. james, la patoka, il 40 643 33 % yes maumee lima, oh samaria, mi 22 95 26 % no total 738 as of december 31, 2014 , we had partial ownership interests in the following pipeline companies. pipeline company origin destination diameter ( inches ) length ( miles ) ownership interest operated by mpl crude oil pipeline companies: illinois extension pipeline company llc (a) flanagan, il patoka, il tbd tbd 35 % no locap llc clovelly, la st. james, la 48 57 59 % no loop llc offshore gulf of mexico clovelly, la 48 48 51 % no north dakota pipeline company llc (a)(b) plentywood, mt clearbrook, mn tbd tbd 38 % no total 105 products pipeline companies: ascension pipeline company llc (a) riverside, la garyville tbd tbd 50 % no centennial pipeline llc (c) beaumont, tx bourbon, il 24 -26 795 50 % yes explorer pipeline company lake charles, la hammond, in 12 -28 1,883 25 % no muskegon pipeline llc griffith, in muskegon, mi 10 170 60 % yes wolverine pipe line company chicago, il bay city &amp; ferrysburg, mi 6 -18 743 6 % no total 3,591 (a) the pipeline diameter and length for these companies will be determined when these pipeline projects are placed into service. (b) we own 38 percent of the class b units in this entity. upon completion of the sandpiper pipeline project, which is to construct a pipeline running from beaver lodge, north dakota to superior, wisconsin and targeted for completion in 2017, our class b units will be converted to an approximate 27 percent ownership interest in the class a units of this entity. (c) includes 491 miles of inactive pipeline. 19 table of contents we also own 183 miles of private crude oil pipelines and 760 miles of private refined products pipelines that are operated by mpl for the benefit of our refining &amp; marketing segment on a cost recovery basis. the following table provides additional information on these assets. private pipeline systems diameter ( inches ) length ( miles ) capacity ( mbpd ) crude oil pipeline systems: lima, oh to canton, oh 12 -16 153 85 st. james, la to garyville, la 30 20 620 other 6 -14 2 15 inactive pipelines 8 n/a total 183 720 products pipeline systems: robinson, il to lima, oh 8 250 18 louisville, ky to lexington, ky (a) 8 87 37 woodhaven, mi to detroit, mi 4 26 12 illinois pipeline systems 4 -12 118 39 texas pipeline systems 8 103 45 ohio pipeline systems 4 -12 57 32 inactive pipelines 119 n/a total 760 183 (a) we own a 65 percent undivided joint interest in the louisville, ky to lexington, ky system. as of december 31, 2014 , we owned or leased 60 private tanks with storage capacity of approximately 6.5 million barrels, which are located along mpl and orpl pipelines. competition, market conditions and seasonality the downstream petroleum business is highly competitive, particularly with regard to accessing crude oil and other feedstock supply and the marketing of refined products. we compete with a large number of other companies to acquire crude oil for refinery processing and in the distribution and marketing of a full array of petroleum products. based upon the the oil &amp; gas journal 2014 worldwide refinery survey, we ranked fourth among u.s. petroleum companies on the basis of u.s. crude oil refining capacity as of december 31, 2014 . we compete in four distinct markets for the sale of refined products wholesale, spot, branded and retail distribution. we believe we compete with about 60 companies in the sale of refined products to wholesale marketing customers, including private-brand marketers and large commercial and industrial consumers; about 90 companies in the sale of refined products in the spot market; 12 refiners or marketers in the supply of refined products to refiner-branded independent entrepreneurs; and approximately 910 retailers in the retail sale of refined products. in addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and retail consumers. we do not produce any of the crude oil we refine. we also face strong competition for sales of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. our competitors include service stations and convenience stores operated by fully integrated major oil companies and their independent entrepreneurs and other well-recognized national or regional convenience stores and travel centers, often selling gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise at competitive prices. non-traditional retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, have affected the convenience store industry with their entrance into sales of retail gasoline and diesel fuel. energy analysts international, inc. estimated such retailers had approximately 14 percent of the u.s. gasoline market in mid- 2014 . our pipeline transportation operations are highly regulated, which affects the rates that our common carrier pipelines can charge for transportation services and the return we obtain from such pipelines. market conditions in the oil and gas industry are cyclical and subject to global economic and political events and new and changing governmental regulations. our operating results are affected by price changes in crude oil, natural gas and refined products, as well as changes in competitive conditions in the markets we serve. price differentials between sweet and sour crude oils, west texas intermediate ( wti ) and light louisiana sweet ( lls ) crude oils and other market structure differentials also affect our operating results. 20 table of contents demand for gasoline, diesel fuel and asphalt is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets, primarily due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and construction. as a result, the operating results for each of our segments for the first and fourth quarters may be lower than for those in the second and third quarters of each calendar year. environmental matters our management is responsible for ensuring that our operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that support and foster our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and for reviewing our overall environmental performance. we also have a corporate emergency response team that oversees our response to any major environmental or other emergency incident involving us or any of our facilities. we believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to issues concerning the extent and causes of climate change will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations. currently, legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gases are in various phases of review, discussion or implementation. the cost to comply with these laws and regulations cannot be estimated at this time, but could be significant. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors. we estimate and publicly report greenhouse gas emissions from our operations and products. additionally, we continuously strive to improve operational and energy efficiencies through resource and energy conservation where practicable. our operations are subject to numerous other laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. such laws and regulations include, among others, the clean air act ( caa ) with respect to air emissions, the clean water act ( cwa ) with respect to water discharges, the resource conservation and recovery act ( rcra ) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ( cercla ) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances and the oil pollution act of 1990 ( opa-90 ) with respect to oil pollution and response. in addition, many states where we operate have similar laws. new laws are being enacted and regulations are being adopted on a continuing basis, and the costs of compliance with such new laws and regulations are very difficult to estimate until finalized. for a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and costs of compliance for air, water, solid waste and remediation, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - environmental matters and compliance costs. air we are subject to many requirements in connection with air emissions from our operations. the u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) issued an endangerment finding in 2009 that greenhouse gas emissions contribute to air pollution that endangers public health and welfare. related to this endangerment finding, in april 2010, the epa finalized a greenhouse gas emissions standard for mobile sources (cars and other light duty vehicles). the endangerment finding along with the mobile source standard and the epa's determination that greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the caa, and the epa's so-called tailoring rule led to permitting of larger stationary sources of greenhouse gas emissions, including refineries. legal challenges filed against these epa actions were overruled by the d.c. circuit court of appeals. in june 2014, the supreme court limited the epa's greenhouse gas permitting authority to only those sources that also trigger prevention of significant deterioration ( psd ) conventional pollutants. a few mpc projects triggered greenhouse gas permitting requirements but any additional capital spend will likely not be significant. legal challenges continue in the wake of the supreme court decision. the epa has proposed new source performance standards for greenhouse gas emissions for new and existing electric utility generating units. this could impact electric and natural gas rates for all our operations and could impose new requirements on the combined heat and power unit we operate. congress may again consider legislation on greenhouse gas emissions or a carbon tax. private parties have sued utilities and other emitters of greenhouse gas emissions, but such suits have been largely unsuccessful. we have not been named in any of those lawsuits. private-party litigation is also pending against federal and certain state governmental entities seeking additional greenhouse gas emission reductions beyond those currently being undertaken. in sum, requiring reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any greenhouse gas emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments. these requirements may also significantly affect mpc's refinery operations and may have an indirect effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the extent and magnitude of the impact from greenhouse gas regulation or legislation cannot be reasonably estimated due to the uncertainty regarding the additional measures and how they will be implemented. 21 table of contents in 2013, the obama administration developed the social cost of carbon ( scc ). the scc is to be used by the epa and other federal agencies in regulatory cost-benefit analyses to take into account alleged broad economic consequences associated with changes to emissions of greenhouse gases. the scc was first issued in 2010. in 2013, the obama administration significantly increased the estimate to $36 per ton. in response to the regulated community and congress' critiques of how the scc was developed, the office of management and budget provided an opportunity to comment on the scc, but ultimately did not make any significant revisions. in december 2014, the white house council on environmental quality ( ceq ) issued new draft guidance for assessing greenhouse gas emissions under the national environmental policy act ( nepa ), adding for the first time language that requires the analyses to also include the impact of climate change on projects, including using the scc when analyzing costs and benefits of a project. while the impact of a higher scc in future regulations is not known at this time, it may result in increased costs to our operations. the epa has reviewed and has revised, or will propose to revise, the national ambient air quality standards ( naaqs ) for criteria air pollutants. the naaqs are subject to multiple court challenges, making compliance planning uncertain. the epa promulgated a revised ozone standard in march 2008 and commenced a multi-year process to develop the implementing rules required by the caa. on december 17, 2014, the epa proposed to revise the naaqs for ozone. if the ozone standard is revised, it is expected to be effective in december 2015 after which states will begin developing implementation plans that will take several years to receive final epa approval. the impact of a stricter standard cannot be accurately estimated due to the present uncertainty regarding the final standard and the additional requirements that states may impose. also, in 2010, the epa adopted new short-term standards for nitrogen dioxide and sulfur dioxide, and in december 2012 issued a more stringent fine particulate matter standard ( pm 2.5 ). in december 2014, the epa finalized the non-attainment areas for pm 2.5. none of our refineries are located in the non-attainment areas for pm 2.5, however, our cincinnati renewable fuels llc facility is located in cincinnati, oh, which was designated as a non-attainment area. we cannot reasonably estimate the final financial impact of these proposed and revised naaqs standards until the standards are finalized, individual state implementing rules are established and judicial challenges are resolved. the epa finalized the boiler and process heater maximum achievable control technology ( boiler mact ) in march 2011 with work practice standards that are applicable to refinery and natural gas fired equipment. subsequently, in january 2013 the epa made certain revisions to the march 2011 final rule in response to petitions for reconsideration. in december 2014, the epa proposed reconsideration of limited issues and proposed to delete rule provisions for an affirmative defense for malfunctions. currently, litigation is pending in the d.c. circuit court on both the 2011 and 2013 rule-makings. we anticipate litigation to continue through 2015. we are in the process of implementing the work practice standards. final financial impacts of the boiler mact rule cannot be determined at this time because the ongoing litigation could affect the final rule. on june 30, 2014, the epa proposed to revise existing refinery air emissions standards. the final rule is expected to be issued by june 17, 2015 and allows for implementation through june 2018. epa's periodic review and possible revision of these standards is required under the caa. this rule may require additional controls, lower emission standards and ambient air monitoring. due to the present uncertainty regarding final standards, we cannot reasonably estimate the cost associated with this rule. water we maintain numerous discharge permits as required under the national pollutant discharge elimination system program of the cwa and have implemented systems to oversee our compliance with these permits. in addition, we are regulated under opa-90, which among other things, requires the owner or operator of a tank vessel or a facility to maintain an emergency plan to respond to releases of oil or hazardous substances. also, in case of any such release, opa-90 requires the responsible company to pay resulting removal costs and damages. opa-90 also provides for civil penalties and imposes criminal sanctions for violations of its provisions. we have implemented emergency oil response plans for all of our components and facilities covered by opa-90 and we have established spill prevention, control and countermeasures plans for all facilities subject to such requirements. additionally, opa-90 requires that new tank vessels entering or operating in u.s. waters be double-hulled and that existing tank vessels that are not double-hulled be retrofitted or removed from u.s. service. all barges used for river transport of our raw materials and refined products meet the double-hulled requirements of opa-90. we operate facilities at which spills of oil and hazardous substances could occur. some coastal states in which we operate have passed state laws similar to opa-90, but with expanded liability provisions, that include provisions for cargo owner responsibility as well as ship owner and operator responsibility. 22 table of contents in 2013, the epa and the us army corps of engineers proposed significant changes to the definition of the term waters of the us (wotus) used in numerous programs under the cwa. the proposed changes have the potential to expand permitting, planning and reporting obligations and extend the timing to secure permits for pipeline and fixed asset construction and maintenance activities. some man-made water bodies on our plant sites (firewater ponds, stormwater systems, and green infrastructure systems) may become wotus, which may require new permits requiring the control of liquids entering and exiting these water bodies. a final rule is anticipated in early 2015. in may 2014, the epa issued the final rule regarding cooling water intake structures which impacts three of our refineries. the final rule established closed-loop cooling as one of eight required technologies. the final rule also requires company engagement with fish and wildlife to determine if any endangered species are at risk in the locations during the next npdes permit cycle. this rule will apply with the next npdes renewal at our catlettsburg, garyville, and robinson refineries. this rule is not anticipated to have a material impact on our operations. solid waste we continue to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. rcra establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. besides affecting waste disposal practices, rcra also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of underground storage tanks ( usts ) containing regulated substances. we have ongoing rcra treatment and disposal operations at two of our facilities and primarily utilize offsite third-party treatment and disposal facilities. ongoing rcra-related costs, however, are not expected to be material to our results of operations or cash flows. remediation we own or operate, or have owned or operated, certain convenience stores and other locations where, during the normal course of operations, releases of refined products from usts have occurred. federal and state laws require that contamination caused by such releases at these sites be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards. the enforcement of the ust regulations under rcra has been delegated to the states, which administer their own ust programs. our obligation to remediate such contamination varies, depending on the extent of the releases and the stringency of the applicable state laws and regulations. a portion of these remediation costs may be recoverable from the appropriate state ust reimbursement funds once the applicable deductibles have been satisfied. we also have ongoing remediation projects at a number of our current and former refinery, terminal and pipeline locations. penalties or other sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance. claims under cercla and similar state acts have been raised with respect to the clean-up of various waste disposal and other sites. cercla is intended to facilitate the clean-up of hazardous substances without regard to fault. potentially responsible parties for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the hazardous substances at the site. liability is strict and can be joint and several. because of various factors including the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and clean-up costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, we are unable to reasonably estimate our ultimate cost of compliance with cercla; however, we do not believe such costs will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. mileage standards, renewable fuels and other fuels requirements in 2007, the u.s. congress passed the energy independence and security act ( eisa ), which, among other things, set a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the united states by model year 2020, and contains a second renewable fuel standard ( rfs2 ). in august 2012, the epa and the national highway traffic safety administration jointly adopted regulations that establish average industry fleet fuel economy standards for passenger cars and light trucks of up to 41 miles per gallon by model year 2021 and average fleet fuel economy standards of up to 49.7 miles per gallon by model year 2025 (the standards from 2022 to 2025 are the government's current estimate but will require further rulemaking). new or alternative transportation fuels such as compressed natural gas could also pose a competitive threat to our operations. 23 table of contents the rfs2 required the total volume of renewable transportation fuels sold or introduced annually in the u.s. to reach 16.55 billion gallons in 2013 and increases to 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. epa has not finalized the 2014 volumes at this time. in the near term, the rfs2 will be satisfied primarily with ethanol blended into gasoline. vehicle, regulatory and infrastructure constraints limit the blending of significantly more than 10 percent ethanol into gasoline ( e10 ), but blending more than e10 could be required if the rfs2 standards are not modified. the rfs2 has required, and may in the future continue to require, additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. within the overall 36.0 billion gallon rfs2, eisa established an advanced biofuel rfs2 volume of 2.0 billion gallons in 2012 increasing to 21.0 billion gallons in 2022. subsets within the advanced biofuel rfs2 include biomass-based diesel, which was set at 1.0 billion gallons in 2012, 1.28 billion gallons in 2013, and at least 1.0 billion gallons in 2014 through 2022 (to be determined by the epa through future rulemaking), and cellulosic biofuel, which was set at 0.5 billion gallons in 2012 and 1.0 billion gallons in 2013, increasing to 16.0 billion gallons by 2022. in 2013, the epa used its waiver authority under the caa to reduce the amount of cellulosic biofuel required under the statute from 1.0 billion gallons to 6.0 million gallons. currently, litigation is on-going in the d.c. circuit court of appeals with respect to the epa's determination of the 2013 cellulosic biofuel requirement. subsequently, industry has requested the epa to use its waiver authority for 2014, requesting reductions for total renewable fuel, advanced biofuels and cellulosic biofuels volumetric obligations. on november 29, 2013, the epa issued a proposed rule for the 2014 renewal fuel volume requirements. on november 21, 2014, the epa announced the rule would not become final until sometime in 2015. this continues the lack of clarity and timeliness that has become common place with the epa's administration of the rfs2 requirements. this proposed rule has substantially reduced the rfs2 requirements from the statutory numbers as follows: total renewables has been reduced from 18.15 to 15.21 billion gallons, the advanced requirement has been reduced from 3.75 to 2.20 billion gallons, the biomass-based diesel requirement has remained flat from 2013 at 1.28 billion gallons, and the cellulosic requirement has been reduced from 1.75 billion to 17 million gallons. if these proposed requirements become final, it will allow the obligated parties to comply in 2014 without needing any substantial volumes of 85 percent ethanol-blended or 15 percent ethanol-blended ( e15 ) gasolines and postpone the issues and concerns of having to blend ethanol past the e10 blendwall at least for 2014. likewise, the epa has not finalized the 2015 renewable fuel volumes as required by the november 30, 2014 statutory deadline. as a result, the future of the rfs still remains undecided and is in need of a legislative re-write or repeal to provide a stable business platform for the obligated parties. with potentially uncertain supplies, the advanced biofuels programs may present specific challenges in that we may have to enter into arrangements with other parties or purchase credits from the epa to meet our obligations to use advanced biofuels, including biomass-based diesel and cellulosic biofuel. additionally, the epa did not finalize the 2013 rfs2 renewable fuel obligations until august 2013. therefore, it is uncertain how industry will comply with meeting the advanced biofuels obligation. the continued delay of the final rule for 2014 has also delayed the day when compliance reports are due for 2013. in 2012 and 2013, the epa also discovered that 173 million biodiesel renewable identification numbers ( rins ) used to meet the annual requirement for that fuel had been fraudulently created and sold to unsuspecting third parties, including mpc. the epa finalized a rule establishing a quality assurance program for rins purchased to help meet the annual biofuel requirements under the rfs2 program. the program is aimed at reducing the risks that rins are fraudulently created or sold. we have already instituted internal procedures to help mitigate that risk. we made investments in infrastructure capable of expanding biodiesel blending capability to help comply with the biodiesel rfs2 requirement by buying and blending biodiesel into our refined diesel product, and by buying needed biodiesel rins in the epa-created biodiesel rins market. on april 1, 2014, we purchased a facility in cincinnati, ohio, which currently produces biodiesel, glycerin and other by-products. the capacity of the plant is approximately 60 million gallons per year. as a producer of biodiesel, we now generate rins, thereby reducing our reliance on the external rin market. on october 13, 2010, the epa issued a partial waiver decision under the caa to allow for an increase in the amount of ethanol permitted to be blended into gasoline from e10 to e15 for 2007 and newer light-duty motor vehicles. on january 21, 2011, the epa issued a second waiver for the use of e15 in vehicles model year 2001-2006. there are numerous issues, including state and federal regulatory issues, which need to be addressed before e15 can be marketed for use in traditional gasoline engines. there will be compliance costs and uncertainties regarding how we will comply with the various requirements contained in eisa and related regulations. we may experience a decrease in demand for refined petroleum products due to an increase in combined fleet mileage or due to refined petroleum products being replaced by renewable fuels. on march 3, 2014, the epa signed the final tier 3 fuel standards. the final tier 3 fuel standards require, among other things, a lower annual average sulfur level in gasoline to no more than 10 parts per million ( ppm ) beginning in calendar year 2017. in addition, gasoline refiners and importers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 80 ppm while retailers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 95 ppm. we anticipate that we will spend an estimated $750 million to $1 billion between 2014 and 2019 for capital expenditures necessary to comply with these standards. 24 table of contents trademarks, patents and licenses our marathon trademark is material to the conduct of our refining and marketing operations, and our speedway trademark is material to the conduct of our retail marketing operations. we currently hold a number of u.s. and foreign patents and have various pending patent applications. although in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important to us, we do not regard any single patent or license or group of related patents or licenses as critical or essential to our business as a whole. in general, we depend on our technological capabilities and the application of know-how rather than patents and licenses in the conduct of our operations. employees we had approximately 45,340 regular employees as of december 31, 2014 , which includes approximately 35,400 employees of speedway. certain hourly employees at our canton, catlettsburg, galveston bay and texas city refineries are represented by the united steel, paper and forestry, rubber, manufacturing, energy, allied industrial and service workers union. the labor agreements for our canton, catlettsburg and galveston bay refineries expired on january 31, 2015 and no successor agreements have been negotiated. as of february 1, 2015 our catlettsburg and galveston bay refineries are experiencing work stoppages. the labor agreement for our canton refinery was extended on a rolling 24-hour notice of expiration basis. the impacted refineries continue to operate as normal. the labor agreement for our texas city refinery is due to expire on march 31, 2015. the international brotherhood of teamsters represents certain hourly employees at our detroit refinery under a labor agreement that is scheduled to expire in 2019. in addition, they represent certain hourly employees at speedway under agreements that cover certain outlets in new york and new jersey that expire between september 14, 2015 and june 30, 2016. executive and corporate officers of the registrant the executive and corporate officers of mpc and their ages as of february 1, 2015 , are as follows: name age position with mpc gary r. heminger 61 president and chief executive officer pamela k.m. beall 58 senior vice president, corporate planning, government &amp; public affairs richard d. bedell 60 senior vice president, refining timothy t. griffith 45 vice president, finance and investor relations, and treasurer john r. haley (a) 58 vice president, tax thomas m. kelley 55 senior vice president, marketing anthony r. kenney 61 president, speedway llc rodney p. nichols 62 senior vice president, human resources and administrative services c. michael palmer 61 senior vice president, supply, distribution and planning john j. quaid 43 vice president and controller george p. shaffner 55 senior vice president, transportation and logistics john s. swearingen (a) 55 vice president, health, environment, safety &amp; security donald c. templin 51 senior vice president and chief financial officer donald w. wehrly (a) 55 vice president and chief information officer j. michael wilder 62 vice president, general counsel and secretary (a) corporate officer. mr. heminger was appointed president and chief executive officer effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. heminger was president of marathon petroleum company lp (formerly known as marathon ashland petroleum llc and marathon petroleum company llc), currently a wholly owned subsidiary of mpc and prior to the spinoff, a wholly owned subsidiary of marathon oil. he assumed responsibility as president of marathon petroleum company lp in september 2001. ms. beall was appointed senior vice president, corporate planning, government &amp; public affairs effective january 1, 2014. prior to this appointment, ms. beall was vice president, investor relations and government &amp; public affairs beginning june 30, 2011 and was vice president, products supply and optimization of marathon petroleum company lp beginning in june 2010. she served as vice president of global procurement for marathon oil company between 2007 and 2010 and prior to that as organizational vice president, business development downstream. 25 table of contents mr. bedell was appointed senior vice president, refining effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. bedell served in the same capacity for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in june 2010 and as manager, louisiana refining division beginning in 2001. mr. griffith was appointed vice president, finance and investor relations, and treasurer effective january 1, 2014. prior to this appointment, mr. griffith was vice president of finance and treasurer beginning august 1, 2011. mr. griffith was vice president investor relations and treasurer of smurfit-stone container corporation, a packaging manufacturer, in st. louis, missouri, from 2008 to 2011. mr. haley was appointed vice president, tax effective june 1, 2013. prior to this appointment, mr. haley served as director of tax beginning in july 2011 and as a tax manager for marathon oil company beginning in 1996. mr. kelley was appointed senior vice president, marketing effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. kelley served in the same capacity for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in january 2010. previously, he served as director of crude supply and logistics for marathon petroleum company lp from january 2008, and as a brand marketing manager for eight years prior to that. mr. kenney has served as president of speedway llc since august 2005. mr. nichols was appointed senior vice president, human resources and administrative services effective march 1, 2012. prior to this appointment, mr. nichols served as vice president, human resources and administrative services beginning on june 30, 2011 and served in the same capacity for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in april 1998. mr. palmer was appointed senior vice president, supply, distribution and planning effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. palmer served as vice president, supply, distribution &amp; planning for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in june 2010. he served as crude supply and logistics director for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in february 2010, and as senior vice president, oil sands operations and commercial activities for marathon oil canada corporation beginning in 2007. mr. quaid was appointed vice president and controller effective june 23, 2014. prior to this appointment, mr. quaid was vice president of iron ore at united states steel corporation ( u. s. steel ), an integrated steel producer, beginning in january 2014. previously, mr. quaid served in various leadership positions at u. s. steel since february 2002, including vice president and treasurer beginning in august 2011, controller, north american flat-rolled operations beginning in july 2010 and assistant corporate controller beginning in 2008. mr. shaffner was appointed senior vice president, transportation and logistics effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. shaffner served in the same capacity for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in june 2010. previously, mr. shaffner served as michigan refining division manager beginning in october 2006. mr. swearingen was appointed vice president of health, environmental, safety &amp; security effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. swearingen was president of marathon pipe line llc beginning in 2009 and the illinois refining division manager beginning in november 2001. mr. templin was appointed senior vice president and chief financial officer effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. templin was a partner at pricewaterhousecoopers llp, an audit, tax and advisory services provider, with various audit and management responsibilities beginning in 1996. mr. wehrly was appointed vice president and chief information officer effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. wehrly was the manager of information technology services for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in 2003. mr. wilder was appointed vice president, general counsel and secretary effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. wilder was associate general counsel of marathon oil company beginning in 2010 and general counsel and secretary of marathon petroleum company lp beginning in 1997. michael g. braddock, who was vice president and controller since june 30, 2011, retired effective october 1, 2014. garry l. peiffer, who was executive vice president of corporate planning and investor &amp; government relations since june 30, 2011, retired effective january 1, 2014. 26 table of contents available information general information about mpc, including corporate governance principles and charters for the audit committee, compensation committee and corporate governance and nominating committee, can be found at http://ir.marathonpetroleum.com. in addition, our code of business conduct and code of ethics for senior financial officers are also available in this same location. mpc uses its website, www.marathonpetroleum.com , as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, financial information and market data. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished with the securities and exchange commission. these documents are also available in hard copy, free of charge, by contacting our investor relations office. in addition, our website allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive email alerts when we post news releases and financial information on our website. information contained on our website is not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k or other securities filings. 27 table of contents item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k in evaluating us and our common stock. some of these risks relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate, while others relate to the ownership of our common stock. our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks, and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline. risks relating to our business a substantial or extended decline in refining and marketing gross margins would reduce our operating results and cash flows and could materially and adversely impact our future rate of growth, the carrying value of our assets and our ability to execute share repurchases and continue the payment of our base dividend. our operating results, cash flows, future rate of growth, the carrying value of our assets and our ability to execute share repurchases and continue the payment of our base dividend are highly dependent on the margins we realize on our refined products. the measure of the difference between market prices for refined products and crude oil, or crack spread, is commonly used by the industry as a proxy for refining and marketing gross margins. historically, refining and marketing gross margins have been volatile, and we believe they will continue to be volatile. our margins from the sale of gasoline and other refined products are influenced by a number of conditions, including the price of crude oil. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all of the crude oil we refine. the price of crude oil and the price at which we can sell our refined products may fluctuate independently due to a variety of regional and global market conditions. any overall change in crack spreads will impact our refining and marketing gross margins. many of the factors influencing a change in crack spreads and refining and marketing gross margins are beyond our control. these factors include: worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for crude oil and refined products; the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks to be manufactured into refined products; the prices realized for refined products; utilization rates of refineries; natural gas and electricity supply costs incurred by refineries; the ability of the members of opec to agree to and maintain production controls; political instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions; local weather conditions; seasonality of demand in our marketing area due to increased highway traffic in the spring and summer months; natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornadoes; the price and availability of alternative and competing forms of energy; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and local, regional, national and worldwide economic conditions. some of these factors can vary by region and may change quickly, adding to market volatility, while others may have longer-term effects. the longer-term effects of these and other factors on refining and marketing gross margins are uncertain. we purchase our crude oil and other refinery feedstocks weeks before we refine them and sell the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. we also purchase refined products manufactured by others for resale to our customers. price changes during the periods between purchasing and reselling those refined products also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. lower refining and marketing gross margins may reduce the amount of refined products we produce, which may reduce our revenues, income from operations and cash flows. significant reductions in refining and marketing gross margins could require us to reduce our capital expenditures, impair the carrying value of our assets (such as property, plant and equipment, inventory or goodwill), decrease or eliminate our share repurchase activity and our base dividend. 28 table of contents our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. failure to manage risks associated with business interruptions could adversely impact our operations, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to business interruptions due to scheduled refinery turnarounds, unplanned maintenance or unplanned events such as explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents, power outages, severe weather, labor disputes, or other natural or man-made disasters, such as acts of terrorism. for example, pipelines provide a nearly-exclusive form of transportation of crude oil to, or refined products from, some of our refineries. in such instances, a prolonged interruption in service of such a pipeline could materially and adversely affect the operations, profitability and cash flows of the impacted refinery. explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents involving our assets or operations could result in serious personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property and equipment, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us. damages resulting from an incident involving any of our assets or operations may result in our being named as a defendant in one or more lawsuits asserting potentially substantial claims or in our being assessed potentially substantial fines by governmental authorities. we do not insure against all potential losses, and, therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected liabilities and increased costs. we maintain insurance coverage in amounts we believe to be prudent against many, but not all, potential liabilities arising from operating hazards. uninsured liabilities arising from operating hazards, including but not limited to, explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents involving our assets or operations, could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. historically, we also have maintained insurance coverage for physical damage and resulting business interruption to our major facilities, with significant self-insured retentions. in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance of the types and amounts we desire at reasonable rates. we rely on the performance of our information technology systems, the failure of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are heavily dependent on our information technology systems and network infrastructure and maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. these information systems involve data network and telecommunications, internet access and website functionality, and various computer hardware equipment and software applications, including those that are critical to the safe operation of our business. these systems and infrastructure are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources including natural disasters, software viruses or other malware, power failures, cyber-attacks and other events. we also face various other cyber-security threats, including threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable. to protect against such attempts of unauthorized access or attack, we have implemented infrastructure protection technologies and disaster recovery plans. there can be no guarantee such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be effective. the retail market is diverse and highly competitive, and very aggressive competition could adversely impact our business. we face strong competition in the market for the sale of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. our competitors include outlets owned or operated by fully integrated major oil companies or their dealers or jobbers, and other well-recognized national or regional retail outlets, often selling gasoline or merchandise at very competitive prices. several non-traditional retailers such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants are in the retail business. these non-traditional gasoline retailers have obtained a significant share of the transportation fuels market and we expect their market share to grow. because of their diversity, integration of operations, experienced management and greater financial resources, these companies may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions or levels of low or no profitability in the retail segment of the market. in addition, these retailers may use promotional pricing or discounts, both at the pump and in the store, to encourage in-store merchandise sales. these activities by our competitors could pressure us to offer similar discounts, adversely affecting our profit margins. additionally, the loss of market share by our convenience stores to these and other retailers relating to either gasoline or merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the development, availability and marketing of alternative and competing fuels in the retail market could adversely impact our business. we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel needs of our consumers. increased competition from these alternatives as a result of governmental regulations, technological advances and consumer demand could have an impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability. 29 table of contents we are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil and refined products. we utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil and refined products to and from our refineries. in addition to our own operational risks discussed above, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines, railways or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations or third-party actions. a prolonged disruption of the ability of the pipelines, railways or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products to or from one or more of our refineries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may incur losses to our business as a result of our forward-contract activities and derivative transactions. we currently use commodity derivative instruments, and we expect to enter into these types of transactions in the future. a failure of a futures commission merchant or counterparty to perform would affect these transactions. to the extent the instruments we utilize to manage these exposures are not effective, we may incur losses related to the ineffective portion of the derivative transaction or costs related to moving the derivative positions to another futures commission merchant or counterparty once a failure has occurred. we have significant debt obligations; therefore our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed by a deterioration of our credit profile, a decrease in debt capacity or unsecured commercial credit available to us, or by factors adversely affecting credit markets generally. at december 31, 2014 , our total debt obligations for borrowed money and capital lease obligations were $6.7 billion . we may incur substantial additional debt obligations in the future. our indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could have material adverse consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends and other purposes. a decrease in our debt or commercial credit capacity, including unsecured credit extended by third-party suppliers, or a deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and/or limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have a trade receivables securitization facility that provides liquidity of up to $1.3 billion depending on the amount of eligible domestic trade accounts receivables. in periods of lower prices, we may not have sufficient eligible accounts receivables to support full availability of this facility. 30 table of contents historic or current operations could subject us to significant legal liability or restrict our ability to operate. we currently are defending litigation and anticipate we will be required to defend new litigation in the future. our operations and those of our predecessors could expose us to litigation and civil claims by private plaintiffs for alleged damages related to contamination of the environment or personal injuries caused by releases of hazardous substances from our facilities, products liability, consumer credit or privacy laws, product pricing or antitrust laws or any other laws or regulations that apply to our operations. while an adverse outcome in most litigation matters would not be expected to be material to us, in class-action litigation, large classes of plaintiffs may allege damages relating to extended periods of time or other alleged facts and circumstances that could increase the amount of potential damages. attorneys general and other government officials may pursue litigation in which they seek to recover civil damages from companies on behalf of a state or its citizens for a variety of claims, including violation of consumer protection and product pricing laws or natural resources damages. we are defending litigation of that type and anticipate that we will be required to defend new litigation of that type in the future. if we are not able to successfully defend such litigation, it may result in liability to our company that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we do not have insurance covering all of these potential liabilities. in addition to substantial liability, plaintiffs in litigation may also seek injunctive relief which, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a portion of our workforce is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. approximately 38 percent of our refining employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. the contracts for the hourly refinery workers at our texas city and detroit refineries are scheduled to expire in march 2015 and january 2019, respectively. the contracts for the hourly refinery workers at our canton, catlettsburg and galveston bay refineries expired on january 31, 2015 and no successor agreements have been negotiated. in addition, three agreements scheduled to expire on september 14, 2015, march 14, 2016 and june 30, 2016, respectively, cover certain speedway llc hourly employees at certain outlets in new york and new jersey. these contracts may be renewed at an increased cost to us. in addition, we have experienced, or may experience, work stoppages as a result of labor disagreements. any prolonged work stoppages disrupting operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a publicly traded master limited partnership, mplx, which may involve a greater exposure to certain legal liabilities than existed under our historic business operations. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of mplx, a publicly traded master limited partnership. our control of the general partner of mplx may increase the possibility of claims of breach of fiduciary duties including claims of conflicts of interest related to mplx. any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if foreign ownership of our stock exceeds certain levels, we could be prohibited from operating inland river vessels, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the shipping act of 1916 and merchant marine act of 1920, which we refer to collectively as the maritime laws, generally require that vessels engaged in u.s. coastwise trade be owned by u.s. citizens. among other requirements to establish citizenship, corporations that own such vessels must be owned at least 75 percent by u.s. citizens. if we fail to maintain compliance with the maritime laws, we would be prohibited from operating vessels in the u.s. inland waters. such a prohibition could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to certain continuing contingent liabilities of marathon oil relating to taxes and other matters and to potential liabilities pursuant to the tax sharing agreement we entered into with marathon oil that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. although the spinoff occurred in mid 2011, certain liabilities of marathon oil could become our obligations. for example, under the internal revenue code of 1986 (the code ) and related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the spinoff is jointly and severally liable for the federal income tax liability of the entire marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. in connection with the spinoff, we entered into a tax sharing agreement with marathon oil that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group between us and marathon oil. however, if marathon oil is unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes. other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans as well as other contingent liabilities. 31 table of contents also pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, following the spinoff we are responsible generally for all taxes attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries, whether accruing before, on or after the spinoff. we also agreed to be responsible for, and indemnify marathon oil with respect to, all taxes arising as a result of the spinoff (or certain internal restructuring transactions) failing to qualify as transactions under sections 368(a) and 355 of the code for u.s. federal income tax purposes to the extent such tax liability arises as a result of any breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or other obligation by us or certain affiliates made in connection with the issuance of the private letter ruling relating to the spinoff or in the tax sharing agreement. in addition, we agreed to indemnify marathon oil for specified tax-related liabilities associated with our 2005 acquisition of the minority interest in our refining joint venture from ashland inc. our indemnification obligations to marathon oil and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited or subject to any cap. if we are required to indemnify marathon oil and its subsidiaries and their respective officers and directors under the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. at this time, we cannot precisely quantify the amount of these liabilities that have been assumed pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, and there can be no assurances as to their final amounts. the tax liabilities described in this paragraph could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. the spinoff could be determined not to qualify as a tax-free transaction, and marathon oil and its stockholders could be subject to material amounts of taxes and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify marathon oil for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement. marathon oil received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (the irs ), to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of shares of mpc common stock in the spinoff qualifies as tax-free to marathon oil, us and marathon oil stockholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a) and related provisions of the code. if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then marathon oil would not be able to continue to rely on the ruling. we are not aware of any facts or circumstances that would cause the assumptions or representations that were relied on in the private letter ruling to be inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect. if, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling, the spinoff were determined not to qualify under section 355 of the code, marathon oil would be subject to tax as if it had sold its shares of common stock of our company in a taxable sale for their fair market value and would recognize a taxable gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of such shares over its tax basis in such shares. with respect to taxes and other liabilities that could be imposed on marathon oil in connection with the spinoff (and certain related transactions) as a result of a final determination that is inconsistent with the anticipated tax consequences as set forth in the private letter ruling, we would be liable to marathon oil under the tax sharing agreement for any such taxes or liabilities attributable to actions taken by or with respect to us, any of our affiliates, or any person that, after the spinoff, is our affiliate. we may be similarly liable if we breach specified representations or covenants set forth in the tax sharing agreement. if we are required to indemnify marathon oil for taxes incurred as a result of the spinoff (or certain related transactions) being taxable to marathon oil, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have potential liabilities pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement we entered into with marathon oil in connection with the spinoff that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in connection with the spinoff, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with marathon oil that provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions that were required to affect the spinoff, certain conditions to the spinoff and provisions governing the relationship between our company and marathon oil with respect to and resulting from the spinoff. among other things, the separation and distribution agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our downstream business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the spinoff, as well as certain obligations of marathon oil assumed by us. our obligations to indemnify marathon oil under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement could subject us to substantial liabilities. marathon oil also agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. however, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities retained by marathon oil, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from marathon oil will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, that marathon oil will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations or that marathon oil's insurers will cover us for liabilities associated with occurrences prior to the spinoff. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from marathon oil or its insurers any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. if marathon oil is unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations, the underlying liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 32 table of contents significant acquisitions involve the integration of new assets or businesses and present substantial risks that could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows . significant transactions involving the addition of new assets or businesses present potential risks, which may include, among others: inaccurate assumptions about future synergies, revenues, capital expenditures and operating costs; an inability to successfully integrate assets or businesses we acquire; a decrease in our liquidity resulting from using a portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity under our revolving credit agreement to finance transactions; a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance transactions; the assumption of unknown environmental and other liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and the incurrence of other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. risks relating to our industry changes in environmental or other laws or regulations may reduce our refining and marketing gross margin and may result in substantial capital expenditures and operating costs that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. various laws and regulations are expected to impose increasingly stringent and costly requirements on our operations, which may reduce our refining and marketing gross margin. laws and regulations expected to become more stringent relate to the following: the emission or discharge of materials into the environment, solid and hazardous waste management, pollution prevention, greenhouse gas emissions, characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, public and employee safety and health, and facility security. the specific impact of laws and regulations on us and our competitors may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of operating facilities, marketing areas, crude oil and feedstock sources and production processes. we may be required to make expenditures to modify operations, install pollution control equipment, perform site cleanups or curtail operations that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we believe the issue of climate change will likely continue to receive scientific and political attention, with the potential for further laws and regulations that could affect our operations. the u.s. pledge in 2009, as part of the copenhagen accord, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020 remains in effect and was reaffirmed in the president's 2013 climate action plan. meetings of the united nations climate change conference, however, have produced no legally binding emission reduction requirements on the u.s. also in 2009, the epa issued an endangerment finding that greenhouse gas emissions contribute to air pollution that endangers public health and welfare. related to the endangerment finding, in april 2010, the epa finalized a greenhouse gas emission standard for mobile sources (cars and other light duty vehicles). the endangerment finding, the mobile source standard and the epa's determination that greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the clean air act resulted in permitting of greenhouse gas emissions at stationary sources, but as a result of the epa's tailoring rule, permit applicability was limited to larger sources such as refineries. legal challenges were filed against these epa actions. in june 2014, the u.s. supreme court ruled that the clean air act prevention of significant deterioration program for new and modified stationary sources is not triggered by greenhouse gas emissions alone. the u.s. supreme court did, however, uphold the requirement for new or modified stationary sources that will also emit a criteria pollutant to control greenhouse gas emissions through best available control technology. implementing best available control technology may result in increased costs to our operations. 33 table of contents in 2013, the obama administration developed the social cost of carbon ( scc ). the scc is to be used by the epa and other federal agencies in regulatory cost-benefit analyses to take into account alleged broad economic consequences associated with changes to emissions of greenhouse gases. the scc was first issued in 2010. in 2013, the obama administration significantly increased the estimate to $36 per ton. in response to the regulated community and congress' critiques of how the scc was developed, the office of management and budget provided an opportunity to comment on the scc, but ultimately did not make any significant revisions. in december 2014, the white house council on environmental quality ( ceq ) issued new draft guidance for assessing greenhouse gas emissions under the national environmental policy act ( nepa ), adding for the first time language that requires that analyses also include the impact of climate change on projects, including using the scc when analyzing costs and benefits of a project. while the impact of a higher scc in future regulations is not known at this time, it may result in increased costs to our operations. in 2013, the epa proposed carbon emission standards for new power plants built in the future. in june 2014, the epa proposed the clean power plan, which would reduce carbon emissions from existing power plants. through the plan, the epa proposes to reduce nationwide carbon emissions from the power generation sector by 30 percent below 2005 levels. these standards, if finalized, could increase our electricity costs and potentially reduce the reliability of our electricity supply. in the future, congress may again consider legislation on greenhouse gas emissions or a carbon tax. other measures to address greenhouse gas emissions are in various phases of review or implementation in the u.s. these measures include state actions to develop statewide or regional programs to impose emission reductions. private party litigation is pending against federal and certain state governmental entities seeking additional greenhouse gas emission reductions beyond those currently being undertaken. these actions could result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, capital expenditures to install new emission controls and costs to administer any carbon trading or tax programs implemented. although uncertain, these developments could increase our costs, reduce the demand for the products we sell and create delays in our obtaining air pollution permits for new or modified facilities. in november 2014, the epa proposed a tightening of the primary (health) ozone national ambient air quality standards ( naaqs ) to within the range of 65 to 70 parts per billion ( ppb ), while accepting comments on levels as low as 60 ppb and an option of maintaining the current ozone level of 75 ppb. in addition, the epa is asking for comment on a new secondary (welfare) ozone naaqs using a three-month seasonal index. the final rule is expected to be promulgated in late 2015. if timely finalized, the epa would then implement a revised ozone naaqs with attainment and nonattainment designations by late 2017, using 2014-2016 air quality monitor data. a lower primary ozone standard may not by attainable in many areas and could result in the cancellation or delay of capital projects at our facilities. the eisa, among other things, sets a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the u.s. by model year 2020 and contains a second renewable fuel standard commonly referred to as rfs2. in august 2012, the epa and the national highway traffic safety administration jointly adopted regulations that establish average industry fleet fuel economy standards for passenger cars and light trucks of up to 41 miles per gallon by model year 2021 and average fleet fuel economy standards of up to 49.7 miles per gallon by model year 2025 (the standards from 2022 to 2025 are the government's current estimate but will require further rulemaking). increases in fuel mileage standards and the increased use of renewable fuels (including ethanol and advanced biofuels) may reduce demand for refined products. governmental regulations encouraging the use of new or alternative fuels could also pose a competitive threat to our operations. the rfs2 required the total volume of renewable transportation fuels sold or introduced annually in the u.s. to reach 16.55 billion gallons in 2013 and increases to 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. the rfs2 presents production and logistics challenges for both the renewable fuels and petroleum refining industries, and may continue to require additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. gasoline consumption has been lower than forecasted by the epa, which has led to concerns that the renewable fuel volumes may not be met. as a result, the epa delayed issuance of the 2014 rfs2 standards and has not finalized the 2015 renewable fuel volumes as required by the november 30, 2014 statutory deadline. the advanced biofuels program, a subset of the rfs2 requirements, creates uncertainties and presents challenges of supply, and may require that we and other refiners and other obligated parties purchase credits from the epa to meet our obligations. tax incentives and other subsidies have also made renewable fuels more competitive with refined products than they otherwise would have been, which may further reduce refined product margins. on march 3, 2014, the epa signed the final tier 3 fuel standards. the final tier 3 fuel standards require, among other things, a lower annual average sulfur level in gasoline to no more than 10 parts per million ( ppm ) beginning in calendar year 2017. in addition, gasoline refiners and importers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 80 ppm, while retailers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 95 ppm. we anticipate that we will spend an estimated $750 million to $1 billion between 2014 and 2019 for capital expenditures necessary to comply with these standards. 34 table of contents we have in the past owned or operated, and currently own and operate, convenience stores and other locations with usts in various states. the operation of usts poses risks, including soil and groundwater contamination, at our previously or currently operated locations. such contamination could result in substantial cleanup costs, fines or civil liabilities. we have in the past and will continue to dispose of various wastes at lawful disposal sites. environmental laws, including cercla, and similar state laws can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup on any responsible party, without regard to negligence or fault, and impose liability on us for the conduct of others or conditions others have caused, or for our acts that complied with all applicable requirements when performed. any failure by us to comply with existing or future laws or regulations could result in the imposition of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, injunctions limiting our operations, investigatory or remedial liabilities or impediments to construction of additional facilities or equipment. plans we may have to expand existing assets or construct new assets are subject to risks associated with societal and political pressures and other forms of opposition to the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels. such risks could adversely impact our business and ability to realize certain growth strategies. our anticipated growth and planned expenditures are based upon the assumption that societal sentiment will continue to enable and existing regulations will remain intact to allow for the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels. a portion of our growth strategy is dependent on our ability to expand existing assets and to construct additional assets. however, policy decisions relating to the production, refining, transportation and marketing of carbon-based fuels are subject to political pressures and the influence of environmental and other special interest groups. the construction of new refinery processing units or crude oil or refined products pipelines, or the extension or expansion of existing assets, involve numerous political and legal uncertainties, many of which may cause significant delays or cost increases and most of which are beyond our control. delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities (including improvements and repairs to our existing facilities) could adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results, thereby limiting our ability to grow and generate cash flows. large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting project returns. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we produce. such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: denial of or delay in receiving requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of components or construction materials; adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors or suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or subcontractors. any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our ongoing capital projects. if we were unable to make up the delays associated with such factors or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 35 table of contents the availability of crude oil and increases in crude oil prices may reduce profitability and refining and marketing gross margins. the profitability of our operations depends largely on the difference between the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks we refine and the selling prices we obtain for refined products. a portion of our crude oil is purchased from various foreign national oil companies, producing companies and trading companies, including suppliers from canada, the middle east and various other international locations. the market for crude oil and other feedstocks is largely a world market. we are, therefore, subject to the attendant political, geographic and economic risks of such a market. if one or more major supply sources were temporarily or permanently eliminated, we believe adequate alternative supplies of crude oil would be available, but it is possible we would be unable to find alternative sources of supply. if we are unable to obtain adequate crude oil volumes or are able to obtain such volumes only at unfavorable prices, our operations, sales of refined products and refining and marketing gross margins could be adversely affected, materially and adversely impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. worldwide political and economic developments could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition to impacting crude oil and other feedstock supplies, political and economic factors in global markets could have a material adverse effect on us in other ways. hostilities in the middle east or the occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economies of the u.s. and other developed countries. a lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could cause our revenues and margins to decline and limit our future growth prospects. these risks could lead to increased volatility in prices for refined products. additionally, these risks could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult and/or costly for us to access capital and to obtain the insurance coverage that we consider adequate. additionally, tax policy, legislative or regulatory action and commercial restrictions could reduce our operating profitability. for example, the u.s. government could prevent or restrict exports of refined products or the conduct of business with certain foreign countries. compliance with and changes in tax laws could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal and state income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales and use, payroll, franchise, withholding and property taxes. new tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations could result in increased expenditures by us for tax liabilities in the future and could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, many tax liabilities are subject to periodic audits by taxing authorities, and such audits could subject us to interest and penalties. terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities or that impact our customers or the markets we serve could adversely affect our business. the u.s. government has issued warnings that energy assets in general, including the nation's refining, pipeline and terminal infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. the threat of terrorist attacks has subjected our operations to increased risks. any future terrorist attacks on our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. similarly, any future terrorist attacks that severely disrupt the markets we serve could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. an easing or lifting of the u.s. crude oil export ban could adversely affect crack spreads or crude oil price differentials and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. since the 1970s, the u.s. has restricted the ability of producers to export domestic crude oil. as total crude oil production has increased in the u.s. in recent years, primarily due to the increase in shale crude oil production, there have been increasing calls by crude oil producers and others for an easing or lifting of the crude oil export ban. if the export ban were to be significantly eased or lifted, the price of domestic crude oil would likely rise, potentially impacting crack spreads and price differentials between domestic and foreign crude oils. a deterioration of crack spreads or price differentials between domestic and foreign crude oils could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results or operations and cash flows. 36 table of contents risks relating to ownership of our common stock provisions in our corporate governance documents could operate to delay or prevent a change in control of our company, dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our capital stock or affect its liquidity. the existence of some provisions within our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us that a stockholder may consider favorable. these include provisions: providing that our board of directors fixes the number of members of the board; providing for the division of our board of directors into three classes with staggered terms; providing that only our board of directors may fill board vacancies; limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring stockholder action to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; establishing supermajority vote requirements for certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and stockholder proposals for amendments to our amended and restated bylaws; providing that our directors may only be removed for cause; authorizing a large number of shares of common stock that are not yet issued, which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of our management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us; and authorizing the issuance of blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt. we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors time to assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. however, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition. our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. the terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. for example, we could grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our board of directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock. finally, to facilitate compliance with the maritime laws, our restated certificate of incorporation limits the aggregate percentage ownership by non-u.s. citizens of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock to 23 percent of the outstanding shares. we may prohibit transfers that would cause ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock by non-u.s. citizens to exceed 23 percent. our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to effect any and all measures necessary or desirable to monitor and limit foreign ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock. these limitations could have an adverse impact on the liquidity of the market for our common stock if holders are unable to transfer shares to non-u.s. citizens due to the limitations on ownership by non-u.s. citizens. any such limitation on the liquidity of the market for our common stock could adversely impact the market price of our common stock. 37 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 69 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, includes forward-looking statements. you can identify our forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, believe, potential, estimate, expect, forecast, goal, intend, plan, predict, project, seek, target, could, may, should, will, would or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. in accordance with safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to, or statements that are subject to risks, contingencies or uncertainties that relate to: future levels of revenues, refining and marketing gross margins, operating costs, retail gasoline and distillate gross margins, merchandise margins, income from operations, net income or earnings per share; anticipated volumes of feedstock, throughput, sales or shipments of refined products; anticipated levels of regional, national and worldwide prices of crude oil and refined products; anticipated levels of crude oil and refined product inventories; future levels of capital, environmental or maintenance expenditures, general and administrative and other expenses; the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital or maintenance projects; business strategies, growth opportunities and expected investments, including planned equity investments in pipeline projects; expectations regarding the acquisition or divestiture of assets; our share repurchase authorizations, including the timing and amounts of any common stock repurchases; the effect of restructuring or reorganization of business components; the potential effects of judicial or other proceedings on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; and the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, or federal, foreign, state or local regulatory authorities, or plaintiffs in litigation. we have based our forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and our company. we caution that these statements are not guarantees of future performance, and you should not rely unduly on them, as they involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that we cannot predict. in addition, we have based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. while our management considers these assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. accordingly, our actual results may differ materially from the future performance that we have expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements. differences between actual results and any future performance suggested in our forward-looking statements could result from a variety of factors, including the following: volatility or degradation in general economic, market, industry or business conditions; an easing or lifting of the u.s. crude oil export ban; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks; the ability of the members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to agree on and to influence crude oil price and production controls; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of refined products such as gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, home heating oil and petrochemicals; foreign imports of refined products; refining industry overcapacity or under capacity; changes in the cost or availability of third-party vessels, pipelines and other means of transportation for crude oil, feedstocks and refined products; the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels and alternative-fuel vehicles and laws mandating such fuels or vehicles; fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products, including seasonal fluctuations; 1 table of contents political and economic conditions in nations that consume refined products, including the united states, and in crude oil producing regions, including the middle east, africa, canada and south america; actions taken by our competitors, including pricing adjustments, expansion of retail activities, and the expansion and retirement of refining capacity in response to market conditions; completion of pipeline projects within the u.s.; changes in fuel and utility costs for our facilities; failure to realize the benefits projected for capital projects, or cost overruns associated with such projects; modifications to mplx lp earnings and distribution growth objectives; the ability to successfully implement growth opportunities; the ability to successfully integrate the acquired hess corporation retail operations and achieve the strategic and other expected objectives relating to the acquisition including any expected synergies; the ability to realize the strategic benefits of joint venture opportunities; accidents or other unscheduled shutdowns affecting our refineries, machinery, pipelines or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers; unusual weather conditions and natural disasters, which can unforeseeably affect the price or availability of crude oil and other feedstocks and refined products; acts of war, terrorism or civil unrest that could impair our ability to produce or transport refined products or receive feedstocks; state and federal environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, including the cost of compliance with the renewable fuel standard; rulings, judgments or settlements and related expenses in litigation or other legal, tax or regulatory matters, including unexpected environmental remediation costs, in excess of any reserves or insurance coverage; labor and material shortages; the maintenance of satisfactory relationships with labor unions and joint venture partners; the ability and willingness of parties with whom we have material relationships to perform their obligations to us; the market price of our common stock and its impact on our share repurchase authorizations; changes in the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and trade credit, changes in the availability of unsecured credit and changes affecting the credit markets generally; and the other factors described in item 1a. risk factors. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements except to the extent required by applicable law. 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview marathon petroleum corporation ( mpc ) was incorporated in delaware on november 9, 2009. we have 127 years of experience in the energy business with roots tracing back to the formation of the ohio oil company in 1887. we are one of the largest independent petroleum product refining, marketing, retail and transportation businesses in the united states and the largest east of the mississippi. our operations consist of three reportable operating segments: refining &amp; marketing; speedway; and pipeline transportation. each of these segments is organized and managed based upon the nature of the products and services it offers. refining &amp; marketing refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our seven refineries in the gulf coast and midwest regions of the united states, purchases refined products and ethanol for resale and distributes refined products through various means, including barges, terminals and trucks that we own or operate. we sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, buyers on the spot market, our speedway business segment and to independent entrepreneurs who operate marathon retail outlets. speedway sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market in the midwest, east coast and southeast. pipeline transportation transports crude oil and other feedstocks to our refineries and other locations, delivers refined products to wholesale and retail market areas and includes the aggregated operations of mplx lp. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk. capital resources our liquidity totaled $5.27 billion at december 31, 2014 consisting of: december 31, 2014 (in millions) total capacity outstanding borrowings available capacity revolving credit agreement (a) $ 2,500 $ $ 2,500 trade receivables securitization facility (b) 1,280 1,280 total $ 3,780 $ $ 3,780 cash and cash equivalents 1,494 total liquidity $ 5,274 (a) excludes mplx's $1 billion revolving credit agreement, which had $385 million of borrowings outstanding as of december 31, 2014 . (b) availability under our $1.3 billion trade receivables securitization facility is a function of refined product selling prices, which will be lower in a sustained lower price environment. as of january 31, 2015, eligible trade receivables supported borrowings of $700 million . because of the alternatives available to us, including internally generated cash flow and access to capital markets, we believe that our short-term and long-term liquidity is adequate to fund not only our current operations, but also our near-term and long-term funding requirements, including capital spending programs, the repurchase of shares of our common stock, dividend payments, defined benefit plan contributions, repayment of debt maturities and other amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies. mpc revolving credit agreement we have a $2.5 billion unsecured revolving credit agreement ( credit agreement ) in place with a maturity date of september 14, 2017. the credit agreement includes letter of credit issuing capacity of up to $2.0 billion and swingline loan capacity of up to $100 million . we may increase our borrowing capacity under the credit agreement by up to an additional $500 million , subject to certain conditions including the consent of the lenders whose commitments would be increased. in addition, the maturity date may be extended for up to two additional one -year periods subject to the approval of lenders holding greater than 50 percent of the commitments then outstanding, provided that the commitments of any non-consenting lenders will be terminated on the then-effective maturity date. borrowings under the credit agreement bear interest at either the adjusted libo rate (as defined in the credit agreement) plus a margin or the alternate base rate (as defined in the credit agreement) plus a margin. we are charged various fees and expenses in connection with the credit agreement, including administrative agent fees, commitment fees on the unused portion of our borrowing capacity and fees related to issued and outstanding letters of credit. the applicable interest rates and certain of the fees fluctuate based on the credit ratings in effect from time to time on our long-term debt. 57 table of contents there were no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding at december 31, 2014 . trade receivables securitization facility on december 18, 2013 , we entered into a three -year, $1.3 billion trade receivables securitization facility with a group of financial institutions that act as committed purchasers, conduit purchasers, letter of credit issuers and managing agents under the facility. the facility is evidenced by a receivables purchase agreement and a second amended and restated receivables sale agreement and replaces the previously existing accounts receivable facility that was set to expire on june 30, 2014 . the facility consists of one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, marathon petroleum company lp ( mpc lp ), selling or contributing on an on-going basis all of its trade receivables (including trade receivables acquired from marathon petroleum trading canada llc, a wholly-owned subsidiary of mpc lp), together with all related security and interests in the proceeds thereof, without recourse, to another wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote special purpose subsidiary, mpc trade receivables company llc ( trc ), in exchange for a combination of cash, equity or a subordinated note issued by trc to mpc lp. trc, in turn, has the ability to finance its purchase of the receivables from mpc lp by selling undivided ownership interests in qualifying trade receivables, together with all related security and interests in the proceeds thereof, without recourse, to the purchasing group in exchange for cash proceeds. the facility also provides for the issuance of letters of credit of up to an initial amount of $1.25 billion , provided that the aggregate credit exposure of the purchasing group is limited to no more than $1.3 billion at any one time. to the extent that trc retains an ownership interest in the receivables it has purchased or received from mpc lp, such interest will be included in our consolidated financial statements solely as a result of the consolidation of the financial statements of trc with those of mpc. the receivables sold or contributed to trc are available first and foremost to satisfy claims of the creditors of trc and are not available to satisfy the claims of creditors of mpc. trc has granted a security interest in all of its assets to the purchasing group to secure its obligations under the receivables purchase agreement. proceeds from the sale of undivided percentage ownership interests in qualifying receivables under the facility will be reflected as debt on our consolidated balance sheet. we will remain responsible for servicing the receivables sold to the purchasing group. trc pays floating-rate interest charges and usage fees on amounts outstanding under the facility, if any, and certain other fees related to the administration of the facility and letters of credit that are issued and outstanding under the facility. as of december 31, 2014 , eligible trade receivables supported borrowings of $1.28 billion . there were no borrowings outstanding at december 31, 2014 . availability under our trade receivables securitization facility is a function of refined product selling prices, which will be lower in a sustained lower price environment. as of january 31, 2015, eligible trade receivables supported borrowings of $700 million . mplx credit agreement on november 20, 2014, mplx entered into a credit agreement with a syndicate of lenders ( mplx credit agreement ), which provides for a five -year $1 billion bank revolving credit facility and a $250 million term loan facility. the maturity date on both facilities is november 20, 2019. the bank revolving credit facility includes letter of credit issuing capacity of up to $250 million and swingline loan capacity of up to $100 million . the borrowing capacity under the mplx credit agreement may be increased by up to an additional $500 million , subject to certain conditions, including the consent of the lenders whose commitments would increase. in addition, the maturity date may be extended up to two additional one -year periods subject to the approval of lenders holding the majority of the commitments then outstanding, provided that the commitments of any non-consenting lenders will be terminated on the original maturity date. the term loan facility was drawn in full on november 20, 2014. the maturity date for the term loan facility may be extended for up to two additional one -year periods subject to the consent of the lenders holding a majority of the outstanding term loan borrowings, provided that the portion of the term loan borrowings held by any non-consenting lenders will continue to be due and payable on the original maturity date. the borrowings under this facility during 2014 were at an average interest rate of 1.4 percent . borrowings under the mplx credit agreement bear interest at either the adjusted libo rate or the alternate base rate (as defined in the mplx credit agreement) plus a specified margin. mplx is charged various fees and expenses in connection with the agreement, including administrative agent fees, commitment fees on the unused portion of the bank revolving credit facility and fees with respect to issued and outstanding letters of credit. the applicable interest rates and certain of the fees fluctuate based the credit ratings in effect from time to time on mplx's long-term debt. 58 table of contents in connection with entering into this new credit agreement, mplx terminated its previously existing $500 million five -year mplx operations llc bank revolving credit agreement, dated as of september 14, 2012. during 2014 , mplx borrowed $280 million under the mplx operations llc bank revolving credit agreement, at an average interest rate of 1.5 percent , per annum, and repaid all of these borrowings. during 2014 , mplx borrowed $630 million under the new revolving credit agreement, at an average interest rate of 1.4 percent , per annum, and repaid $245 million of these borrowings. at december 31, 2014 , mplx had $385 million of borrowings and no letters of credit outstanding under the mplx credit agreement, resulting in total unused loan availability of $615 million , or 61.5 percent of the borrowing capacity. debt-to-total-capital ratio as described in further detail below, the increase in debt as of year-end 2014 compared to year-end 2013 was primarily related to financing a portion of the purchase price for the acquisition of hess' retail operations and related assets. our debt-to-total capital ratio (total debt to total debt-plus-equity) was 37 percent and 23 percent at december 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. december 31, (in millions) 2014 2013 long-term debt due within one year $ 27 $ 23 long-term debt 6,610 3,373 total debt $ 6,637 $ 3,396 calculation of debt-to-total capital ratio: total debt $ 6,637 $ 3,396 plus equity 11,390 11,332 total debt plus equity $ 18,027 $ 14,728 debt-to-total capital ratio 37 % 23 % mpc term loan agreement on august 26, 2014 , we entered into a $700 million five -year senior unsecured term loan credit agreement (the term loan agreement ) with a syndicate of lenders to fund a portion of the purchase price for the acquisition of hess' retail operations and related assets. the term loan agreement matures on september 24, 2019 and may be prepaid at any time without premium or penalty. we are obligated to pay certain customary fees under the term loan agreement, including an annual administrative fee. amounts outstanding under the term loan agreement bear interest at either of the following rates at our election (i) the sum of the adjusted libo rate (as defined in the term loan agreement) , plus a margin ranging between 0.875 percent to 1.75 percent , depending on our credit ratings, or (ii) the sum of the base rate (as defined in the term loan agreement), plus a margin ranging between zero percent to 0.75 percent , depending on our credit ratings. the borrowings under this facility during 2014 were at an average interest rate of 1.3 percent . senior notes on september 5, 2014, we completed a public offering of $1.95 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes (the senior notes ), consisting of $750 million aggregate principal amount of our senior notes due 2024, $800 million aggregate principal amount of our senior notes due 2044 and $400 million aggregate principal amount of our senior notes due 2054. the net proceeds from the offering of the senior notes were approximately $1.92 billion , after deducting underwriting discounts and estimated offering expenses. the net proceeds were used to fund a portion of the purchase price for the acquisition of hess' retail operations and related assets. interest on each series of senior notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on march 15 and september 15 of each year, commencing on march 15, 2015. the senior notes are unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of ours and rank equally with all our other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. the term loan agreement, the credit agreement and the mplx credit agreement contain representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and events of default that we consider usual and customary for agreements of these types. the financial covenant included in the term loan agreement and the mpc credit agreement requires us to maintain, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, a ratio of consolidated net debt to total capitalization (as defined in the term loan agreement and the mpc credit agreement) of no greater than 0.65 to 1.00. as of december 31, 2014 , we were in compliance with this debt covenant with a ratio of consolidated net debt to total capitalization of 0.33 to 1.00, as well as the other covenants contained in the term loan agreement and the mpc credit agreement. 59 table of contents the mplx credit agreement includes certain representations and warranties, affirmative and restrictive covenants and events of default that we consider to be usual and customary for an agreement of this type. the mplx credit agreement includes a financial covenant that requires mplx to maintain a ratio of consolidated total debt as of the end of each fiscal quarter to consolidated ebitda (both as defined in the mplx credit agreement) for the prior four fiscal quarters of no greater than 5.0 to 1.0 (or 5.5 to 1.0 for up to two fiscal quarters following certain acquisitions). consolidated ebitda is subject to adjustments for certain acquisitions completed and capital projects undertaken during the relevant period. other covenants restrict mplx from incurring debt, creating liens on its assets and entering into transactions with affiliates. as of december 31, 2014 , mplx was in compliance with the covenants contained in the mplx credit agreement, including a ratio of consolidated total debt to consolidated ebitda of 2.8 to 1.0. our intention is to maintain an investment grade credit profile. as of february 9, 2015, the credit ratings on our senior unsecured debt were at or above investment grade level as follows. rating agency rating moody's baa2 (stable outlook) standard &amp; poor's bbb (stable outlook) fitch bbb (stable outlook) the ratings reflect the respective views of the rating agencies. although it is our intention to maintain a credit profile that supports an investment grade rating, there is no assurance that these ratings will continue for any given period of time. the ratings may be revised or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies if, in their respective judgments, circumstances so warrant. neither the credit agreement, the mplx credit agreement nor our trade receivables securitization facility contains credit rating triggers that would result in the acceleration of interest, principal or other payments in the event that our credit ratings are downgraded. however, any downgrades of our senior unsecured debt to below investment grade ratings would increase the applicable interest rates, yields and other fees payable under the credit agreement and our trade receivables securitization facility. in addition, a downgrade of our senior unsecured debt rating to below investment grade levels could, under certain circumstances, decrease the amount of trade receivables that are eligible to be sold under our trade receivables securitization facility, impact our ability to purchase crude oil on an unsecured basis and could result in us having to post letters of credit under existing transportation services agreements. capital requirements we have a capital and investment budget for 2015 of $2.53 billion , excluding capitalized interest. additional details related to the 2015 capital and investment budget are discussed in the capital budget outlook section below. pursuant to the purchase and sale agreement for the galveston bay refinery and related assets, we may be required to pay the seller a contingent earnout of up to an additional $700 million over six years, subject to certain conditions. in july 2014, we paid $180 million for the first period's contingent earnout. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. pension and other postretirement benefit obligations accounting for pension and other postretirement benefit obligations involves numerous assumptions, the most significant of which relate to the following: the discount rate for measuring the present value of future plan obligations; the expected long-term return on plan assets; the rate of future increases in compensation levels; health care cost projections; and the mortality table used in determining future plan obligations. 66 table of contents we utilize the work of third-party actuaries to assist in the measurement of these obligations. we have selected different discount rates for our funded pension plans and our unfunded retiree health care plans due to the different projected benefit payment patterns. the selected rates are compared to various similar bond indexes for reasonableness. in determining the assumed discount rates, we use our third-party actuary's discount rate model. this model calculates an equivalent single discount rate for the projected benefit plan cash flows using a yield curve derived from aa bond yields. the yield curve represents a series of annualized individual spot discount rates from 0.5 to 99 years. the bonds used have an average rating of aa or higher by a recognized rating agency and generally only non-callable bonds are included. outlier bonds that have a yield to maturity that deviate significantly from the average yield within each maturity grouping are not included. each issue is required to have at least $250 million par value outstanding. of the assumptions used to measure the year-end obligations and estimated annual net periodic benefit cost, the discount rate has the most significant effect on the periodic benefit cost reported for the plans. decreasing the discount rates of 3.65 percent for our pension plans and 4.15 percent for our other postretirement benefit plans by 0.25 percent would increase pension obligations and other postretirement benefit plan obligations by $42 million and $32 million, respectively, and would increase defined benefit pension expense and other postretirement benefit plan expense by $2 million and $4 million, respectively. the long-term asset rate of return assumption considers the asset mix of the plans (currently targeted at approximately 51 percent equity securities and 49 percent fixed income securities for the primary funded pension plan), past performance and other factors. certain components of the asset mix are modeled with various assumptions regarding inflation and returns. in addition, our long-term asset rate of return assumption is compared to those of other companies and to historical returns for reasonableness. after evaluating activity in the capital markets, along with the current and projected plan investments, we reduced the asset rate of return for our primary plan from 7.00 percent to 6.75 percent effective for 2015. we used the 7.00 percent long-term rate of return to determine our 2014 defined benefit pension expense. decreasing the 6.75 percent asset rate of return assumption by 0.25 percent would increase our defined benefit pension expense by $4 million. compensation change assumptions are based on historical experience, anticipated future management actions and demographics of the benefit plans. health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook and an assessment of likely long-term trends. we utilized the 2014 mortality tables from the u.s. society of actuaries. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk general we are exposed to market risks related to the volatility of crude oil and refined product prices. we employ various strategies, including the use of commodity derivative instruments, to hedge the risks related to these price fluctuations. we are also exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. as of december 31, 2014 , we did not have any financial derivative instruments to hedge the risks related to interest rate fluctuations; however, we have used them in the past, and we continually monitor the market and our exposure and may enter into these agreements again in the future. we are at risk for changes in fair value of all of our derivative instruments; however, such risk should be mitigated by price or rate changes related to the underlying commodity or financial transaction. we believe that our use of derivative instruments, along with our risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose us to material adverse consequences. while the use of derivative instruments could materially affect our results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods, we believe that the use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity. seerisk factors 29 risk factors, item 3. legal proceedings, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, includes forward-looking statements. you can identify our forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, believe, potential, estimate, expect, forecast, goal, intend, plan, predict, project, seek, target, could, may, should, will, would or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. in accordance with safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to, or statements that are subject to risks, contingencies or uncertainties that relate to: future levels of revenues, refining and marketing gross margins, operating costs, retail gasoline and distillate gross margins, merchandise margins, income from operations, net income or earnings per share; anticipated volumes of feedstock, throughput, sales or shipments of refined products; anticipated levels of regional, national and worldwide prices of crude oil, natural gas, ngls and refined products; anticipated levels of crude oil and refined product inventories; future levels of capital, environmental or maintenance expenditures, general and administrative and other expenses; the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital or maintenance projects; business strategies, growth opportunities and expected investments, including planned equity investments in pipeline projects; expectations regarding the acquisition or divestiture of assets; our share repurchase authorizations, including the timing and amounts of any common stock repurchases; the adequacy of our capital resources and liquidity, including but not limited to, availability of sufficient cash flow to execute our business plan; the effect of restructuring or reorganization of business components; the potential effects of judicial or other proceedings on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; and the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, or federal, foreign, state or local regulatory authorities or plaintiffs in litigation. we have based our forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and our company. we caution that these statements are not guarantees of future performance, and you should not rely unduly on them, as they involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we cannot predict. in addition, we have based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. while our management considers these assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. accordingly, our actual results may differ materially from the future performance that we have expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements. differences between actual results and any future performance suggested in our forward-looking statements could result from a variety of factors, including the following: volatility or degradation in general economic, market, industry or business conditions; the effects of lifting the u.s. crude oil export ban; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of natural gas, ngls and crude oil and other feedstocks; the ability of the members of the opec to agree on and to influence crude oil price and production controls; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of refined products such as gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, home heating oil and petrochemicals; foreign imports and exports of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and ngls; refining industry overcapacity or under capacity; changes in producer customers' drilling plans or in volumes of throughput of crude oil, natural gas, ngls, refined products or other hydrocarbon-based products; 2 table of contents changes in the cost or availability of third-party vessels, pipelines, railcars and other means of transportation for crude oil, natural gas, ngls, feedstocks and refined products; changes to the expected construction costs and timing of pipeline projects; the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels and alternative-fuel vehicles and laws mandating such fuels or vehicles; fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products, natural gas and ngls, including seasonal fluctuations; political and economic conditions in nations that consume refined products, natural gas and ngls, including the united states, and in crude oil producing regions, including the middle east, africa, canada and south america; actions taken by our competitors, including pricing adjustments, expansion of retail activities, the expansion and retirement of refining capacity and the expansion and retirement of pipeline capacity, processing, fractionation and treating facilities in response to market conditions; completion of pipeline projects within the u.s.; changes in fuel and utility costs for our facilities; failure to realize the benefits projected for capital projects, or cost overruns associated with such projects; modifications to mplx lp earnings and distribution growth objectives; the ability to successfully implement growth opportunities; the risk that the synergies from the markwest merger (defined below) may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; risks and uncertainties associated with intangible assets, including any future goodwill or intangible assets impairment charges; the ability to realize the strategic benefits of joint venture opportunities; accidents or other unscheduled shutdowns affecting our refineries, machinery, pipelines, processing, fractionation and treating facilities or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers; unusual weather conditions and natural disasters, which can unforeseeably affect the price or availability of crude oil and other feedstocks and refined products; acts of war, terrorism or civil unrest that could impair our ability to produce refined products, receive feedstocks or to gather, process, fractionate or transport crude oil, natural gas, ngls or refined products; state and federal environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, including the cost of compliance with the renewable fuel standard program; rulings, judgments or settlements and related expenses in litigation or other legal, tax or regulatory matters, including unexpected environmental remediation costs, in excess of any reserves or insurance coverage; political pressure and influence of environmental groups upon policies and decisions related to the production, gathering, refining, processing, fractionation, transportation and marketing of crude oil or other feedstocks, refined products, natural gas, ngls or other hydrocarbon-based products; labor and material shortages; the maintenance of satisfactory relationships with labor unions and joint venture partners; the ability and willingness of parties with whom we have material relationships to perform their obligations to us; the market price of our common stock and its impact on our share repurchase authorizations; changes in the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and trade credit, changes in the availability of unsecured credit and changes affecting the credit markets generally; capital market conditions and our ability to raise adequate capital to execute our business plan; and the other factors described in item 1a. risk factors. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements except to the extent required by applicable law. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business overview marathon petroleum corporation ( mpc ) has 128 years of experience in the energy business with roots tracing back to the formation of the ohio oil company in 1887. we are one of the largest independent petroleum product refining, marketing, retail and transportation businesses in the united states and the largest east of the mississippi. with the merger of mplx lp ( mplx ), the midstream master limited partnership sponsored by mpc, and markwest energy partners, l.p. ( markwest ) effective december 4, 2015 (the markwest merger ), we believe we are one of the largest natural gas processors in the united states and the largest processor and fractionator in the marcellus and utica shale regions. our operations consist of three reportable operating segments: refining &amp; marketing; speedway; and midstream . each of these segments is organized and managed based upon the nature of the products and services it offers. refining &amp; marketing refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our seven refineries in the gulf coast and midwest regions of the united states, purchases refined products and ethanol for resale and distributes refined products through various means, including barges, terminals and trucks that we own or operate. we sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, buyers on the spot market, our speedway business segment and to independent entrepreneurs who operate marathon retail outlets. speedway sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market in the midwest, east coast and southeast. midstream includes the operations of mplx and certain other related operations. following the markwest merger, we changed the name of this segment from pipeline transportation to midstream to reflect its expanded business activities. there were no changes to the historical financial information reported for this segment. the midstream segment gathers, processes and transports natural gas; gathers, transports, fractionates, stores and markets natural gas liquids and transports and stores crude oil and refined products. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 10 for operating segment and geographic financial information, which is incorporated herein by reference. corporate history and structure mpc was incorporated in delaware on november 9, 2009 in connection with an internal restructuring of marathon oil corporation ( marathon oil ). on may 25, 2011, the marathon oil board of directors approved the spinoff of its refining, marketing &amp; transportation business ( rm&amp;t business ) into an independent, publicly traded company, mpc, through the distribution of mpc common stock to the stockholders of marathon oil common stock on june 30, 2011 (the spinoff ). following the spinoff, marathon oil retained no ownership interest in mpc, and each company has separate public ownership, boards of directors and management. all subsidiaries and equity method investments not contributed by marathon oil to mpc remained with marathon oil and, together with marathon oil, are referred to as the marathon oil companies. on july 1, 2011, our common stock began trading regular-way on the nyse under the ticker symbol mpc. recent developments on december 4, 2015, a wholly-owned subsidiary of mplx, the midstream master limited partnership sponsored by mpc, merged with markwest, whereby markwest became a wholly-owned subsidiary of mplx. each common unit of markwest issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the markwest merger was converted into a right to receive 1.09 common units of mplx representing limited partner interests in mplx, plus a one-time cash payment of $6.20 per unit. each class b unit of markwest outstanding immediately prior to the merger was converted into the right to receive one class b unit of mplx having substantially similar rights, including conversion and registration rights, and obligations that the class b units of markwest had immediately prior to the merger. at closing, we contributed $1.23 billion in cash to mplx to pay the cash consideration to markwest common unitholders. we will contribute an additional total of $50 million in cash to mplx for the cash consideration to be paid upon the conversion of the mplx class b units to mplx common units in equal installments in july 2016 and july 2017, respectively. these contributions are with respect to mpc's existing interests in mplx (including idrs) and not in consideration of new units or other equity interest in mplx. our financial results and operating statistics reflect the results of markwest from the date of the acquisition. 4 table of contents consistent with our strategy to grow our midstream business, the markwest merger combines one of the nation's largest processors of natural gas and the largest processor and fractionator in the marcellus and utica shale regions with a rapidly growing crude oil and refined products logistics partnership sponsored by mpc. the complementary aspects of the highly diverse asset base of markwest, mplx and mpc provide significant additional opportunities across multiple segments of the hydrocarbon value chain. the combined entity will further markwest's leading midstream presence in the marcellus and utica shales by allowing it to pursue additional midstream projects, which should allow producer customers to achieve superior value for their growing production in these important shale regions. in addition, the combination provides significant vertical integration opportunities, as mpc is a large consumer of ngls. in september 2015, we acquired a 50 percent ownership interest in a new joint venture with crowley maritime corporation through our investment in crowley ocean partners llc ( crowley ocean partners ), which is included in our refining &amp; marketing segment. the joint venture will operate and charter four new jones act product tankers, most of which will be leased to mpc. contributions to the joint venture with respect to each vessel will occur at the vessel's delivery. during 2015, we contributed $72 million in connection with delivery of the first two vessels. the remaining two vessels are expected to be delivered by the third quarter of 2016. we account for our ownership interest in crowley ocean partners as an equity method investment. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data - note 25 for information on our conditional guarantee of the indebtedness of the joint venture and future contributions to crowley ocean partners. on september 30, 2014, we acquired from hess corporation ( hess ) all of its retail locations, transport operations and shipper history on various pipelines, including approximately 40 mbpd on colonial pipeline, for $2.82 billion . we refer to these assets as hess' retail operations and related assets and substantially all of these assets are part of our speedway segment. this acquisition significantly expands our speedway presence from nine to 22 states throughout the east coast and southeast and is aligned with our strategy to grow higher-valued, stable cash flow businesses. this acquisition also enables us to further leverage our integrated refining and transportation operations, providing an outlet for incremental assured sales from our refining system. the transaction was funded with a combination of debt and available cash. our financial results and operating statistics reflect the results of hess' retail operations and related assets from the date of the acquisition. in july 2014, we exercised our option to acquire a 35 percent ownership interest in enbridge inc.'s southern access extension ( sax ) pipeline which runs from flanagan, illinois to patoka, illinois. this option resulted from our agreement to be the anchor shipper on the sax pipeline and our commitment to the sandpiper pipeline project as discussed below. during 2015 , we made contributions of $147 million to illinois extension pipeline company, llc ( illinois extension pipeline ) to fund our portion of the construction costs for the sax project. we have contributed $267 million since project inception. the pipeline became operational in december 2015. our investment in the pipeline is included in our midstream segment. on april 1, 2014, we purchased a facility in cincinnati, ohio from felda iffco sdn bhd, malaysia for $40 million . the plant currently produces biodiesel, glycerin and other by-products. the capacity of the plant is approximately 60 million gallons per year. in march 2014, we acquired from chevron raven ridge pipe line company an additional seven percent interest in explorer pipeline company ( explorer ) for $77 million , bringing our ownership interest to 25 percent . explorer owns approximately 1,900 miles of refined products pipeline from lake charles, louisiana to hammond, indiana. in november 2013, we agreed with enbridge energy partners l.p. ( enbridge energy partners ) to serve as an anchor shipper for the sandpiper pipeline, which will run from beaver lodge, north dakota to superior, wisconsin. we also agreed to fund 37.5 percent of the construction of the sandpiper pipeline project, which is currently estimated to cost $2.6 billion, of which approximately $1.0 billion is our share. we made contributions of $71 million during 2015 and have contributed $287 million since project inception, which are included in our midstream segment. in exchange for our commitment to be an anchor shipper and our investment in the project, we will earn an approximate 27 percent equity interest in enbridge energy partners' north dakota system when the sandpiper pipeline is placed into service. the anticipated in-service date for the pipeline is likely to be delayed to early 2019. the project schedule and cost estimates remain under review. enbridge energy partners' north dakota system currently includes approximately 240 miles of crude oil gathering pipelines connected to a transportation pipeline that is approximately 730 miles long. we will also have the option to increase our ownership interest to approximately 30 percent through additional investments in future system improvements. 5 table of contents on august 1, 2013 , we acquired from mitsui &amp; co. (u.s.a.), inc. its interests in three ethanol companies for $75 million . under the purchase agreement, we acquired an additional 24 percent interest in the andersons clymers ethanol llc ( tace ), bringing our ownership interest to 60 percent ; a 34 percent interest in the andersons ethanol investment llc ( taei ), which holds a 50 percent ownership in the andersons marathon ethanol llc ( tame ), bringing our direct and indirect ownership interest in tame to 67 percent ; and a 40 percent interest in the andersons albion ethanol llc ( taae ), which owns an ethanol production facility in albion, michigan. on october 1, 2013, our ownership interest in taae increased to 43 percent as a result of taae acquiring one of the owner's interest. on february 1, 2013, we acquired from bp products north america inc. and bp pipelines (north america) inc. (collectively, bp ) the 451,000 barrel per calendar day refinery in texas city, texas, three intrastate natural gas liquid pipelines originating at the refinery, four light product terminals, branded-jobber marketing contract assignments for the supply of approximately 1,200 branded sites, a 1,040 megawatt electric cogeneration facility and a 50 mbpd allocation of space on the colonial pipeline. we refer to these assets as the galveston bay refinery and related assets. we paid $1.49 billion for these assets, which included $935 million for inventory. pursuant to the purchase and sale agreement, we may also be required to pay bp a contingent earnout of up to an additional $700 million over six years, subject to certain conditions. through the end of 2015, we have paid bp $369 million pursuant to the contingent earnout provisions of the agreement. the galveston bay refinery and related assets are part of our refining &amp; marketing and midstream segments. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 5 for additional information on these acquisitions and investments. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 25 for information regarding our future contributions to the sandpiper pipeline project. mplx lp mplx is a publicly traded master limited partnership formed by us to own, operate, develop and acquire pipelines and other midstream assets related to the transportation and storage of crude oil, refined products and other hydrocarbon-based products. on december 4, 2015, mplx merged with markwest, whereby markwest became a wholly-owned subsidiary of mplx. prior to the markwest merger, we owned a 71.5 percent interest in mplx, which included our two percent general partner interest. each common unit of markwest issued and outstanding at the time of the markwest merger was converted into the right to receive 1.09 common units of mplx and as of december 31, 2015 , our ownership interest in mplx was 20.4 percent , including our two percent general partner interest. due to our general partner interest, we have determined that we control mplx and therefore we consolidate mplx and record a noncontrolling interest for the 79.6 percent interest owned by the public. upon completion of the markwest merger, mplx assumed an aggregate principal amount of $4.1 billion in senior notes issued by markwest and markwest energy finance corporation (the markwest senior notes ). on december 22, 2015, mplx completed offers to exchange any and all outstanding markwest senior notes for (1) up to $4.1 billion aggregate principal amount of new notes issued by mplx having the same maturity and interest rates as the markwest senior notes and (2) cash of $1 for each $1,000 of principal amount exchanged. as of december 31, 2015, the exchange was completed on all the markwest senior notes except for 1.6 percent, or $63 million. mplx's initial assets consisted of a 51 percent general partner interest in mplx pipe line holdings llc ( pipe line holdings ), which owns a network of common carrier crude oil and product pipeline systems and associated storage assets in the midwest and gulf coast regions of the united states, and a 100 percent interest in a butane storage cavern in west virginia. we originally retained a 49 percent limited partner interest in pipe line holdings. on may 1, 2013, we sold a five percent interest in pipe line holdings to mplx for $100 million , which was financed by mplx with cash on-hand. on march 1, 2014, we sold a 13 percent interest in pipe line holdings to mplx for $310 million . mplx financed this transaction with $40 million of cash on-hand and $270 million of borrowings on its bank revolving credit facility. on december 1, 2014, we sold and contributed interests in pipe line holdings totaling 30.5 percent to mplx for $600 million in cash and 2.9 million mplx common units valued at $200 million . mplx financed the sales portion of this transaction with $600 million of borrowings on its bank revolving credit facility. on december 8, 2014, mplx completed a public offering of 3.5 million common units at a price to the public of $66.68 per mplx common unit, with net proceeds of $221 million . mplx used the net proceeds from this offering to repay borrowings under its bank revolving credit facility and for general partnership purposes. on december 10, 2014, we exercised our right to maintain our two percent general partner interest in mplx by purchasing 130 thousand general partner units for $9 million . 6 table of contents on february 12, 2015, mplx completed an underwritten public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of four percent unsecured senior notes due february 15, 2025 (the senior notes ). the senior notes were offered at a price to the public of 99.64 percent of par. the net proceeds of this offering were used to repay the amounts outstanding under its bank revolving credit facility, as well as for general partnership purposes. on december 4, 2015, we sold our remaining 0.5 percent interest in pipe line holdings to mplx for $12 million . as a result, mplx now owns 100 percent of pipe line holdings. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 4 for additional information on mplx. our competitive strengths high quality refining, gathering and processing assets we believe we are the largest crude oil refiner in the midwest and the fourth largest in the united states based on crude oil refining capacity. we own a seven -plant refinery network, with approximately 1.8 mmbpcd of crude oil throughput capacity. our refineries process a wide range of crude oils, feedstocks and condensate, including heavy and sour crude oils, which can generally be purchased at a discount to sweet crude oil, and produce transportation fuels such as gasoline and distillates, specialty chemicals and other refined products. while we have historically processed significant quantities of heavy and sour crude oils, our refineries have the ability to process approximately 65 percent to 70 percent light sweet crude oils. through our ownership interests in mplx and its wholly-owned subsidiary, markwest, we believe we are one of the largest processors of natural gas in the united states and the largest processor and fractionator in the marcellus and utica shale regions. our integrated midstream energy asset network links producers of natural gas, ngls and crude oil from some of the largest supply basins in the united states to domestic and international markets. our midstream gathering and processing operations include: natural gas gathering, processing and transportation; and ngl gathering, transportation, fractionation, storage and marketing. our assets include approximately 5,400 mmcf/d of gathering capacity, 7,100 mmcf/d of natural gas processing capacity and 500 mbpd of fractionation capacity as of december 31, 2015 . strategic locations the geographic locations of our refineries provide us with strategic advantages. located in padd ii and padd iii, which consist of states in the midwest and the gulf coast regions of the united states, our refineries have the ability to procure crude oil from a variety of supply sources, including domestic, canadian and other foreign sources, which provides us with flexibility to optimize crude supply costs. for example, geographic proximity to various united states shale oil regions and canadian crude oil supply sources allows our refineries access to price-advantaged crude oils and lower transportation costs than certain of our competitors. our refinery locations and midstream distribution system also allow us to access refined product export markets and to serve a broad range of key end-user markets across the united states quickly and cost-effectively. our midstream segment assets are similarly located in the midwest and gulf coast regions of the united states, which collectively comprised approximately 73 percent of total united states crude distillation capacity and approximately 53 percent of total united states finished products demand for the year ended december 31, 2015 , according to the eia. mplx, through markwest, its wholly-owned subsidiary, is the largest processor and fractionator in the marcellus and utica shale regions. this significantly compliments and creates strategic opportunities for our refining &amp; marketing segment and mplx's logistic assets in the same geographic footprint. 7 table of contents * as of december 31, 2015 extensive midstream distribution networks our assets give us extensive flexibility and optionality to respond promptly to dynamic market conditions, including weather-related and marketplace disruptions. we believe the relative scale of our transportation and distribution assets and operations distinguishes us from other refining and marketing companies. we currently own, lease or have ownership interests in approximately 8,400 miles of crude oil and products pipelines. additionally, we have over 5,000 miles of natural gas and ngl pipelines. we also own one of the largest private domestic fleets of inland petroleum product barges and one of the largest terminal operations in the united states, as well as trucking and rail assets. we operate this system in coordination with our refining and marketing network, which enables us to optimize feedstock and other raw material supplies and refined product distribution, and further allows for important economies of scale across our system. general partner and sponsor of mplx our investment in mplx should allow us to enhance our share price through our limited partner and general partner interests which tend to receive higher market multiples. mplx also provides us an efficient vehicle to invest in organic projects and pursue acquisitions of midstream assets. mplx's liquidity and access to the capital markets should provide us a strong foundation to execute our strategy for growing our midstream business. our role as the general partner allows us to maintain strategic control of the assets so we can continue to optimize our refinery feedstock and distribution networks. we have an extensive portfolio of midstream assets that can potentially be sold and/or contributed to mplx at valuations that are supportive to the partnership's growth, providing mplx with a competitive advantage. as of december 31, 2015 , these assets included: approximately 5,400 miles of crude oil and products pipelines that mpc owns, leases or which it has an ownership interest; ownership interest in sax pipeline; 19 owned or leased inland towboats and 219 owned or leased inland barges; ownership interest in a blue water joint venture with crowley maritime corporation; 8 table of contents 61 owned and operated light product terminals with approximately 20 million barrels of storage capacity and 187 loading lanes; 18 owned and operated asphalt terminals with approximately 4 million barrels of storage capacity and 68 loading lanes; one leased and two non-operated, partially-owned light product terminals; 2,210 owned or leased railcars; 59 million barrels of tank and cavern storage capacity at our refineries; 25 rail and 26 truck loading racks at our refineries; seven owned and 11 non-owned docks at our refineries; condensate splitters at our canton and catlettsburg refineries; and approximately 20 billion gallons of fuels distribution. we continue to focus resources on growing this portfolio of midstream assets, including investments in the sandpiper pipeline project, the recently completed sax pipeline and our new marine joint venture, crowley ocean partners. we broadly estimate these assets and growth projects can generate annual ebitda of $1.6 billion. in addition to this growing portfolio by which we can also incubate projects for mplx, we also have the ability to provide additional financial flexibility to the partnership through intercompany debt and equity financing, commercial arrangements, idr give-backs and other alternatives. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional information on these midstream assets. competitively positioned marketing operations we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers within our market area. we have two strong retail brands: speedway and marathon . we believe speedway llc, a wholly-owned subsidiary, operates the second largest chain of company-owned and operated retail gasoline and convenience stores in the united states, with approximately 2,770 convenience stores in 22 states throughout the midwest, east coast and southeast. the marathon brand is an established motor fuel brand primarily in the midwest and southeast regions of the united states, comprised of approximately 5,600 retail outlets operated by independent entrepreneurs in 19 states as of december 31, 2015 . in addition, as part of the acquisition of the galveston bay refinery and related assets in 2013 and hess' retail operations and related assets in 2014, we obtained retail marketing contracts that provide us with the opportunity to convert the associated retail outlets to the marathon brand. as of december 31, 2015 , we had outstanding retail marketing contract assignments for approximately 300 retail outlets. we believe our distribution system allows us to maximize the sales value of our products and minimize cost. attractive growth opportunities we believe we have attractive growth opportunities across all of our business segments. we recently announced a $2 billion multi-year project we are undertaking in our refining &amp; marketing segment which will fully integrate our galveston bay and texas city refineries, increase residual oil processing, revamp a crude unit to increase our overall crude processing capacity, increase our distillate and gas oil recovery, improve the unit's reliability and install a new ulsd hydrotreater allowing the refinery to produce 100% ulsd and ulsk. we refer to this group of projects as the south texas asset repositioning ( star ) program. our refining &amp; marketing segment is also investing in the midstream through our ocean vessel equity affiliate, which is constructing additional jones act product tankers to move finished products from our refineries to the coastal market. our speedway segment is focused on store remodels to enhance profitability, particularly for its acquired stores along the east coast, building new locations in speedway's core market and fully integrating hess' retail operations and related assets. mplx, which is included in the midstream segment, is focused on organic growth opportunities for natural gas gathering and processing and ngl gathering and fractionation in the marcellus and utica shale formations among other regions. mplx also remains focused on the cornerstone pipeline project and related utica build out projects. the cornerstone project is the building block for the other projects that will become a critical solution for the industry to move condensate and ngls out of the utica region into refining centers in northwest ohio and into canada. our midstream segment's investments also include an investment in an equity interest in the sandpiper pipeline project that will transport crude oil from growing north american hydrocarbon production regions to our refineries. in connection with the markwest merger, we have also identified a portfolio of potential projects totaling $6 billion to $9 billion of incremental investment opportunities for our midstream segment over the next several years. these investment opportunities are in the early stages of feasibility analysis and include projects in the utica and marcellus shale regions that could leverage our respective capabilities and pursue natural commercial synergies and transportation solutions to open new markets for producers' products in these shale regions. 9 table of contents established track record of profitability and diversified income stream we have demonstrated an ability to achieve positive financial results throughout all stages of the refining cycle. we believe our business mix and strategies position us well to continue to achieve competitive financial results. income generated by our speedway segment, which was significantly expanded with the acquisition of hess' retail operations and related assets, is less sensitive to business cycles and income from our midstream segment, which was significantly expanded through the markwest merger, is more stable due to its long-term fee based contracts, while our refining &amp; marketing segment enables us to generate significant income and cash flow when market conditions are more favorable. strong financial position as of december 31, 2015 , we had $1.13 billion in cash and cash equivalents and $3.17 billion in unused committed borrowing facilities, excluding mplx's credit facilities. we had $11.93 billion of debt at year-end, which represented 38 percent of our total capitalization. this combination of strong liquidity and manageable leverage provides financial flexibility to fund our growth projects and to pursue our business strategies. our business strategies maintain top-tier safety and environmental performance we remain committed to operating our assets in a safe and reliable manner and targeting continuous improvement in our safety record across all of our operations. we have a history of safe and reliable operations, which was demonstrated again in 2015 with a solid performance compared to the industry average. four of our refineries and five additional facilities have earned designation as an osha vpp star site. in addition, we remain committed to environmental stewardship by continuing to improve the efficiency and reliability of our operations. we proactively address our regulatory requirements and encourage our operations to improve their environmental performance through our dei program. the results of the 2015 dei program show a 16 percent reduction over 2014 in regards to significant environmental incidents across mpc, which includes our major operating components. grow higher valued, stable cash flow businesses we intend to continue allocating significant capital to grow our midstream and retail businesses, exclusive of acquisitions. these businesses typically have more predictable and stable income and cash flows compared to our refining operations and we believe investors assign a higher value to businesses with stable cash flows. mplx is an important part of the mpc strategy to grow its higher valued, stable cash flow midstream businesses and the markwest merger significantly expanded its midstream activities to include natural gas gathering, processing and transportation and ngl gathering, transportation, fractionation, storage and marketing. mplx will evaluate organic growth projects within its geographic footprint, including the marcellus and utica shale regions, oklahoma and texas, as well as in new areas, that provide attractive returns and cash flows. mplx may pursue these opportunities as standalone projects, with mpc or other parties. we significantly expanded speedway's presence along the east coast and southeast through our acquisition of hess' retail operations and related assets towards the end of 2014. we intend to continue growing speedway's sales and profitability by focusing on the conversion and integration of these acquired locations, from which we expect to realize increased merchandise sales and other synergies. we also remain focused on organic growth through remodeling stores, constructing new stores, rebuilding old stores, acquiring high quality stores through opportunistic acquisitions and improving margins at our existing operations. we have identified numerous opportunities for new convenience stores or store rebuilds in our existing market, pennsylvania and tennessee, as well as growth opportunities in georgia, south carolina and the florida panhandle. we also plan to capitalize on diesel demand growth by building out our commercial fueling lane network. in addition, our highly successful speedy rewards customer loyalty program, which averaged more than 4.7 million active members in 2015 , provides us with a unique competitive advantage and opportunity to increase our speedway customer base with existing and new speedway locations, including the stores acquired from hess. maintain long-term integrated relationships with our producer customers mplx's markwest subsidiary has developed long-term integrated relationships with its producer customers. these relationships are characterized by an intense focus on customer service and a deep understanding of producer customers' requirements coupled with the ability to increase the level of our midstream services in response to their midstream requirements. through collaborative planning, mplx continues to construct high-quality midstream infrastructure and provide unique solutions that are critical to the ongoing success of producer customers' development plans. as a result of delivering high-quality midstream services, markwest has been the top-rated midstream service provider since 2006, as determined by an independent research provider. 10 table of contents deliver top quartile refining performance our refineries are well positioned to benefit from the growing crude oil and condensate production in north america, including the bakken, eagle ford and utica shale regions, along with the canadian oil sands. we are also well positioned to export distillates, gasoline and other products. we intend to enhance our margins in the refining &amp; marketing segment by realizing benefits of continuous process improvements, investing in and optimizing operations at our galveston bay and texas city refineries, increasing distillate yield and conversion capacity and growing refined product export capacity. for example, we completed condensate splitter projects at our canton and catlettsburg refineries to increase our condensate capacity, we increased distillate production at our galveston bay and robinson refineries and expanded our export capacity at our galveston bay and garyville refineries. we intend to create a world-class refining complex by investing $2 billion in our galveston bay refinery over the next five years. the group of projects included in this investment will enable us to produce 100 percent ulsd and ulsk, increase our overall crude processing capacity, increase our distillate and gas oil recovery and improve the refinery's reliability. furthermore, this investment program will fully integrate our galveston bay and texas city refineries. in 2016, we intend to increase our capacity to produce high value products such as alkylate and light products by making investments in the fcc units at our garyville and detroit refineries. we also intend to further increase distillate production at our garyville refinery and to further expand the export capacity at our galveston bay refinery. sustain focus on shareholder returns we intend to continue our focus on the return of capital to shareholders in the form of a strong and growing base dividend, supplemented by share repurchases. since becoming a stand-alone company in june 2011, our dividend has increased by a 29.5 percent compound annual growth rate and our board of directors has authorized share repurchases totaling $10 billion . through open market purchases and two asr programs, we repurchased 198 million shares of our common stock for approximately $7.24 billion , representing approximately 28 percent of our outstanding common shares when we became a stand-alone company in june 2011. after the effects of these repurchases, $2.76 billion of the $10 billion total authorization was available for future repurchases as of december 31, 2015 . increase assured sales volumes at our marathon brand and speedway locations we consider assured sales as those sales we make to marathon brand customers, our speedway operations and to our wholesale customers with whom we have required minimum volume sales contracts. we believe having assured sales brings ratability to our distribution systems, provides a solid base to enhance our overall supply reliability and allows us to efficiently and effectively optimize our operations between our refineries, pipelines and terminals. the marathon brand has been a vehicle for sales volume growth in existing and contiguous markets. our speedway operations have also enabled us to further leverage our integrated refining and transportation operations with its expansion from nine to 22 states throughout the east coast and southeast in 2014. utilize and enhance our high quality employee workforce we utilize our high quality employee workforce, which was augmented with the addition of markwest's employees to mpc, by continuing to leverage our commercial skills. in addition, we continue to enhance our workforce through selective hiring practices and effective training programs on safety, environmental stewardship and other professional and technical skills. 11 table of contents the above discussion contains forward-looking statements with respect to our competitive strengths and business strategies, including our expected investments, the adequacy of our capital resources and liquidity and mplx's access to capital markets, share repurchase authorizations, growth opportunities as well as the earnings potential of our portfolio of midstream assets and growth projects that can potentially be sold and/or contributed to mplx. there can be no assurance that we will be successful, in whole or in part, in carrying out our business strategies, including our expected investments, share repurchase authorizations and other growth opportunities, or that our portfolio of midstream assets and growth projects that can potentially be sold and/or contributed to mplx will achieve expected earnings. factors that could affect our expected investments include, but are not limited to, the actual amounts invested, which could differ materially from those estimated, and our success in making such investments. factors that could affect the share repurchase authorizations and the timing of any repurchases include, but are not limited to, business conditions, availability of liquidity and the market price of our common stock. factors that could affect the pursuit of growth opportunities include, but are not limited to, our ability to implement and realize the benefits and synergies of our strategic initiatives, availability of liquidity, actions taken by competitors, regulatory approvals and operating performance. factors that could affect the earnings of our portfolio of midstream assets and growth projects that can potentially be sold and/or contributed to mplx include, but are not limited to, the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices and demand for crude oil, refined products, feedstocks or other hydrocarbon-based products and volatility in and/or degradation of market and industry conditions. factors that could affect the adequacy of our capital resources and liquidity and mplx's access to capital markets include, but are not limited to, modifications to mplx earnings and distribution growth objectives, the risk that synergies from the markwest merger may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected, failure to realize the benefits projected for capital projects and volatility or degradation in general economic, market, industry or business conditions. these factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. for additional information on forward-looking statements and risks that can affect our business, see disclosures regarding forward-looking statements and item 1a. risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. refining &amp; marketing refineries we currently own and operate seven refineries in the gulf coast and midwest regions of the united states with an aggregate crude oil refining capacity of 1,794 mbpcd. during 2015 , our refineries processed 1,711 mbpd of crude oil and 177 mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. during 2014 , our refineries processed 1,622 mbpd of crude oil and 184 mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. the table below sets forth the location, crude oil refining capacity, tank storage capacity and number of tanks for each of our refineries as of december 31, 2015 . refinery crude oil refining capacity ( mbpcd ) (a) tank storage capacity ( million barrels ) number of tanks garyville, louisiana 539 16.8 78 galveston bay, texas city, texas 459 16.3 156 catlettsburg, kentucky 273 5.3 114 robinson, illinois 212 6.2 95 detroit, michigan 132 6.5 86 canton, ohio 93 3.1 76 texas city, texas 86 4.6 60 total 1,794 58.8 665 (a) refining throughput can exceed crude oil capacity due to the processing of other charge and blendstocks in addition to crude oil and the timing of planned turnaround and major maintenance activity. our refineries include crude oil atmospheric and vacuum distillation, fluid catalytic cracking, hydrocracking, catalytic reforming, coking, desulfurization and sulfur recovery units. the refineries process a wide variety of condensate, light and heavy crude oils purchased from various domestic and foreign suppliers. we produce numerous refined products, ranging from transportation fuels, such as reformulated gasolines, blend-grade gasolines intended for blending with ethanol and ulsd fuel, to heavy fuel oil and asphalt. additionally, we manufacture aromatics, propane, propylene and sulfur. see the refined product marketing section for further information about the products we produce. 12 table of contents our refineries are integrated with each other via pipelines, terminals and barges to maximize operating efficiency. the transportation links that connect our refineries allow the movement of intermediate products between refineries to optimize operations, produce higher margin products and efficiently utilize our processing capacity. for example, naphtha may be moved from texas city to robinson where excess reforming capacity is available. also, shipping intermediate products between facilities during partial refinery shutdowns allows us to utilize processing capacity that is not directly affected by the shutdown work. garyville, louisiana refinery . our garyville, louisiana refinery is located along the mississippi river in southeastern louisiana between new orleans and baton rouge. the garyville refinery is configured to process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, fuel-grade coke, asphalt, polymer-grade propylene, propane, slurry, sulfur and dry gas. the refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products. a major expansion project was completed in 2009 that increased garyville's crude oil refining capacity, making it one of the largest refineries in the u.s. our garyville refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. galveston bay, texas city, texas refinery . our galveston bay refinery, which we acquired on february 1, 2013, is located on the texas gulf coast approximately 30 miles southeast of houston, texas. the refinery can process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, aromatics, heavy fuel oil, fuel-grade coke, refinery-grade propylene, sulfur and dry gas. the refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products. our cogeneration facility, which supplies the galveston bay refinery, currently has 1,055 megawatts of electrical production capacity and can produce 4.3 million pounds of steam per hour. approximately 46 percent of the power generated in 2015 was used at the refinery, with the remaining electricity being sold into the electricity grid. catlettsburg, kentucky refinery . our catlettsburg, kentucky refinery is located in northeastern kentucky on the western bank of the big sandy river, near the confluence with the ohio river. the catlettsburg refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, aromatics, refinery-grade propylene and propane. in the second quarter of 2015, we completed construction of a condensate splitter at our catlettsburg refinery, which increased our capacity to process condensate from the utica shale region. robinson, illinois refinery . our robinson, illinois refinery is located in southeastern illinois. the robinson refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, propane, anode-grade coke, aromatics and slurry. the robinson refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. detroit, michigan refinery . our detroit, michigan refinery is located in southwest detroit. it is the only petroleum refinery currently operating in michigan. the detroit refinery processes sweet and heavy sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, fuel-grade coke, chemical-grade propylene, propane, slurry and sulfur. our detroit refinery earned designation as a osha vpp star site in 2010. in the fourth quarter of 2012, we completed a heavy oil upgrading and expansion project that enabled the refinery to process up to an additional 80 mbpd of heavy sour crude oils, including canadian crude oils. canton, ohio refinery . our canton, ohio refinery is located approximately 60 miles south of cleveland, ohio. the canton refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils, including production from the nearby utica shale, into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, roofing flux, refinery-grade propylene, propane and slurry. in december 2014, we completed construction of a condensate splitter at our canton refinery, which increased our capacity to process condensate from the utica shale region. texas city, texas refinery . our texas city, texas refinery is located on the texas gulf coast adjacent to our galveston bay refinery, approximately 30 miles southeast of houston, texas. the refinery processes light sweet crude oils into gasoline, chemical-grade propylene, propane, aromatics, slurry and dry gas. our texas city refinery earned designation as an osha vpp star site in 2012. as of december 31, 2015 , our refineries had 25 rail loading racks and 26 truck loading racks and four of our refineries had a total of seven owned and 11 non-owned docks. total throughput in 2015 was 88 mbpd for the refinery loading racks and 920 mbpd for the refinery docks. planned maintenance activities, or turnarounds, requiring temporary shutdown of certain refinery operating units, are periodically performed at each refinery. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional detail. 13 table of contents refined product yields the following table sets forth our refinery production by product group for each of the last three years. refined product yields ( mbpd ) 2015 2014 2013 gasoline 913 869 921 distillates 603 580 572 propane 36 35 37 feedstocks and special products 281 276 221 heavy fuel oil 31 25 31 asphalt 55 54 54 total 1,919 1,839 1,836 crude oil supply we obtain the crude oil we refine through negotiated term contracts and purchases or exchanges on the spot market. our term contracts generally have market-related pricing provisions. the following table provides information on our sources of crude oil for each of the last three years. the crude oil sourced outside of north america was acquired from various foreign national oil companies, production companies and trading companies. sources of crude oil refined ( mbpd ) 2015 2014 2013 united states 1,138 1,120 946 canada 244 223 255 middle east and other international 329 279 388 total 1,711 1,622 1,589 our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks and distribute our refined products through a variety of channels, including pipelines, trucks, railcars, ships and barges. renewable fuels we currently own a biofuel production facility in cincinnati, ohio that produces biodiesel, glycerin and other by-products. the capacity of the plant is approximately 60 million gallons per year. we hold interests in ethanol production facilities in albion, michigan; clymers, indiana and greenville, ohio. these plants have a combined ethanol production capacity of 275 million gallons per year ( 18 mbpd) and are managed by a co-owner. refined product marketing we believe we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers and consumers within our 19 -state market area. independent retailers, wholesale customers, our marathon brand jobbers and speedway brand convenience stores, airlines, transportation companies and utilities comprise the core of our customer base. in addition, we sell gasoline, distillates and asphalt for export, primarily out of our garyville and galveston bay refineries. the following table sets forth our refined product sales destined for export by product group for the past three years. refined product sales destined for export ( mbpd ) 2015 2014 2013 gasoline 101 79 38 distillates 214 191 173 asphalt 4 5 6 other 1 total 319 275 218 14 table of contents the following table sets forth, as a percentage of total refined product sales volume, the sales of refined products to our different customer types for the past three years. refined product sales by customer type 2015 2014 2013 private-brand marketers, commercial and industrial customers, including spot market 69 % 73 % 75 % marathon-branded independent entrepreneurs 14 % 15 % 16 % speedway convenience stores 17 % 12 % 9 % the following table sets forth the approximate number of retail outlets by state where independent entrepreneurs maintain marathon-branded retail outlets, as of december 31, 2015 . state approximate number of marathon retail outlets alabama 237 florida 632 georgia 311 illinois 314 indiana 646 kentucky 578 louisiana 2 maryland 1 michigan 753 minnesota 63 mississippi 70 north carolina 292 ohio 848 pennsylvania 65 south carolina 133 tennessee 362 virginia 130 west virginia 119 wisconsin 51 total 5,607 as of december 31, 2015 , we also had branded marketing contract assignments for retail outlets, primarily in florida, mississippi, tennessee and alabama and branded lessee dealer marketing contract assignments, primarily in connecticut, maryland and new york, which we acquired as either part of the galveston bay refinery and related assets acquisition in 2013 or the acquisition of hess' retail operations and related assets in 2014. as of december 31, 2015 , we had outstanding retail marketing contract assignments for approximately 300 retail outlets. the following table sets forth our refined product sales volumes by product group for each of the last three years. refined product sales by product group ( mbpd ) 2015 2014 2013 gasoline 1,241 1,116 1,126 distillates 667 623 615 propane 36 34 37 feedstocks and special products 258 268 214 heavy fuel oil 30 28 29 asphalt 57 56 54 total 2,289 2,125 2,075 15 table of contents gasoline and distillates . we sell gasoline, gasoline blendstocks and distillates (including no. 1 and no. 2 fuel oils, jet fuel, kerosene and diesel fuel) to wholesale customers, marathon-branded independent entrepreneurs and our speedway convenience stores and on the spot market. in addition, we sell diesel fuel and gasoline for export to international customers. we sold 50 percent of our gasoline sales volumes and 87 percent of our distillates sales volumes on a wholesale or spot market basis in 2015 . the demand for gasoline and distillates is seasonal in many of our markets, with demand typically at its highest levels during the summer months. we have blended ethanol into gasoline for more than 20 years and began expanding our blending program in 2007, in part due to federal regulations that require us to use specified volumes of renewable fuels. ethanol volumes sold in blended gasoline were 85 mbpd in 2015 , 78 mbpd in 2014 and 74 mbpd in 2013 . we sell reformulated gasoline, which is also blended with ethanol, in 12 states in our marketing area. we also sell biodiesel-blended diesel fuel in 16 states in our marketing area. the future expansion or contraction of our ethanol and biodiesel blending programs will be driven by market economics and government regulations. propane . we produce propane at most of our refineries. propane is primarily used for home heating and cooking, as a feedstock within the petrochemical industry, for grain drying and as a fuel for trucks and other vehicles. our propane sales are typically split evenly between the home heating market and industrial consumers. feedstocks and special products . we are a producer and marketer of feedstocks and specialty products. product availability varies by refinery and includes platformate, alkylate, fcc unit gas, naptha, dry gas, propylene, raffinate, butane, benzene, xylene, molten sulfur, cumene and toluene. we market these products domestically to customers in the chemical, agricultural and fuel-blending industries. in addition, we produce fuel-grade coke at our garyville, detroit and galveston bay refineries, which is used for power generation and in miscellaneous industrial applications, and anode-grade coke at our robinson refinery, which is used to make carbon anodes for the aluminum smelting industry. our feedstocks and special products sales decreased to 258 mbpd in 2015 from 268 mbpd in 2014 and increased in 2014 from 214 mbpd in 2013. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to higher turnaround activity in 2014 resulting in more available feedstocks, more feedstocks used in production versus selling them on the spot market and market conditions in 2015. the increase in 2014 was primarily due to our galveston bay refinery. heavy fuel oil . we produce and market heavy residual fuel oil or related components, including slurry, at all of our refineries. heavy residual fuel oil is primarily used in the utility and ship bunkering (fuel) industries, though there are other more specialized uses of the product. asphalt . we have refinery-based asphalt production capacity of up to 101 mbpcd, which includes asphalt cements, polymer-modified asphalt, emulsified asphalt, industrial asphalts and roofing flux. we have a broad customer base, including asphalt-paving contractors, government entities (states, counties, cities and townships) and asphalt roofing shingle manufacturers. we sell asphalt in the domestic and export wholesale markets via rail, barge and vessel. 16 table of contents terminals as of december 31, 2015 , we owned and operated 61 light product and 18 asphalt terminals. our light product and asphalt terminals averaged 1,410 mbpd and 32 mbpd of throughput in 2015 , respectively. in addition, we distribute refined products through one leased light product terminal, two light product terminals in which we have partial ownership interests but do not operate and approximately 120 third-party light product and two third-party asphalt terminals in our market area. the following table sets forth additional details about our owned and operated terminals at december 31, 2015 . owned and operated terminals number of terminals tank storage capacity ( million barrels ) number of tanks number of loading lanes light product terminals: alabama 2 0.4 19 4 florida 4 2.6 82 22 georgia 4 0.9 38 9 illinois 4 1.1 43 14 indiana 6 2.9 76 17 kentucky 6 2.3 69 24 louisiana 1 0.1 9 2 michigan 8 2.1 93 26 north carolina 4 1.2 53 13 ohio 13 3.8 150 33 pennsylvania 1 0.3 10 2 south carolina 1 0.3 9 3 tennessee 4 1.0 43 12 west virginia 2 0.3 10 2 wisconsin 1 0.3 10 4 subtotal light product terminals 61 19.6 714 187 asphalt terminals: florida 1 0.2 4 3 illinois 2 0.1 34 6 indiana 2 0.5 24 6 kentucky 4 0.5 58 14 louisiana 1 0.1 11 2 michigan 1 2 8 ohio 4 2.0 72 13 pennsylvania 1 0.5 21 8 tennessee 2 0.5 44 8 subtotal asphalt terminals 18 4.4 270 68 total owned and operated terminals 79 24.0 984 255 17 table of contents transportation - marine, truck and rail as of december 31, 2015 , our marine transportation operations included 18 owned and one leased towboat, as well as 205 owned and 14 leased barges that transport refined products and crude oil on the ohio, mississippi and illinois rivers and their tributaries and inter-coastal waterways. we also have a 50 percent ownership interest in a joint venture with crowley maritime corporation through our investment in crowley ocean partners to operate and charter four new jones act product tankers, most of which will be leased to mpc. as of december 31, 2015 , two of the four vessels were delivered with the remaining two vessels expected to be delivered by the third quarter of 2016. the following table sets forth additional details about our tankers, barges and towboats. class of equipment number in class capacity ( thousand barrels ) jones act product tankers (a) 2 660 inland tank barges: (b) less than 25,000 barrels 67 995 25,000 barrels and over 152 4,453 total 219 5,448 inland towboats: less than 2,000 horsepower 2 2,000 horsepower and over 17 total 19 (a) represents ownership through our investment in crowley ocean partners. (b) all of our barges are double-hulled. as of december 31, 2015 , we owned 173 transport trucks and 174 trailers with an aggregate capacity of 1.6 million gallons for the movement of refined products and crude oil. in addition, we had 2,189 leased and 21 owned railcars of various sizes and capacities for movement and storage of refined products. the following table sets forth additional details about our railcars. number of railcars class of equipment owned leased total capacity per railcar general service tank cars 793 793 20,000-30,000 gallons high pressure tank cars 1,102 1,102 33,500 gallons open-top hoppers 21 294 315 4,000 cubic feet 21 2,189 2,210 speedway our speedway segment sells gasoline, diesel and merchandise through convenience stores that it owns and operates under the speedway brand. we are substantially complete with the conversion of the remaining convenience stores acquired from hess to the speedway brand and plan to complete this process by the end of the second quarter of 2016. speedway convenience stores offer a wide variety of merchandise, including prepared foods, beverages and non-food items. speedway's speedy rewards loyalty program has been a highly successful loyalty program since its inception in 2004, with a consistently growing base which averaged more than 4.7 million active members in 2015 . due to speedway's ability to capture and analyze member-specific transactional data, speedway is able to offer the speedy rewards members discounts and promotions specific to their buying behavior. we believe speedy rewards is a key reason customers choose speedway over competitors and it continues to drive significant value for both speedway and our speedy rewards members. the demand for gasoline is seasonal, with the highest demand usually occurring during the summer driving season. margins from the sale of merchandise tend to be less volatile than margins from the retail sale of gasoline and diesel fuel. merchandise margin as a percent of total gross margin for speedway decreased in 2015, primarily due to higher light product margins during the year and the effects of the convenience stores acquired from hess. the following table sets forth speedway merchandise statistics for the past three years. 18 table of contents speedway merchandise statistics 2015 2014 2013 merchandise sales (in millions) $ 4,879 $ 3,611 $ 3,135 merchandise gross margin (in millions) 1,368 975 825 merchandise as a percent of total gross margin 54 % 57 % 65 % as of december 31, 2015 , speedway had 2,766 convenience stores in 22 states. the following table sets forth the number of convenience stores by state owned by our speedway segment as of december 31, 2015 . state number of convenience stores (a) alabama 2 connecticut 1 delaware 4 florida 247 georgia 6 illinois 110 indiana 308 kentucky 147 massachusetts 114 michigan 303 new hampshire 12 new jersey 72 new york 240 north carolina 288 ohio 489 pennsylvania 111 rhode island 20 south carolina 62 tennessee 37 virginia 68 west virginia 61 wisconsin 64 total 2,766 (a) includes travel centers and stores with commercial fueling lanes. as of december 31, 2015 , speedway owned 105 transport trucks and 83 trailers for the movement of gasoline and distillate. midstream following the markwest merger, we changed the name of our pipeline transportation segment to the midstream segment to reflect its expanded business activities. the midstream segment includes the operations of mplx, which transports crude oil and other feedstocks to our refineries and other locations, delivers refined products to wholesale and retail market areas, gathers, processes and transports natural gas, and transports, fractionates, stores and markets ngls. as of december 31, 2015 , we owned, leased or had ownership interests in approximately 8,400 miles of crude oil and products pipelines, of which approximately 2,900 miles are owned through our investments in mplx. also through our investments in mplx, we own 5,000 miles of gas gathering and ngl pipelines and have ownership interests in over 50 gas processing plants, over 10 ngl fractionation facilities and one condensate stabilization facility. 19 table of contents mplx mplx is a publicly traded master limited partnership formed by us to own, operate, develop and acquire pipelines and other midstream assets related to the transportation and storage of crude oil, refined products and other hydrocarbon-based products. on december 4, 2015, mplx merged with markwest, whereby markwest became a wholly-owned subsidiary of mplx. prior to the markwest merger, we owned a 71.5 percent interest in mplx, which included our two percent general partner interest. as of december 31, 2015 , our ownership interest in mplx was 20.4 percent , including our two percent general partner interest. as of december 31, 2015 , mplx assets, through its combination with markwest, included approximately 5,400 mmcf/d of gathering capacity, 7,100 mmcf/d of natural gas processing capacity and 500 mbpd of ngl fractionation capacity and more than 5,000 miles of gas gathering and ngl pipelines. mplx assets as of december 31, 2015 also included 100 percent ownership of common carrier pipeline systems through marathon pipe line llc ( mpl ) and ohio river pipe line llc ( orpl ), and a one million barrel butane storage cavern in west virginia. mplx, through mpl and orpl, owned or leased and operated 1,008 miles of common carrier crude oil lines and 1,900 miles of common carrier products lines located in nine states and four tank farms in illinois and indiana with available storage capacity of 4.53 million barrels that is committed to mpc. in 2015 , third parties generated 17 percent of the crude oil and refined product shipments on mplx's common carrier pipelines, excluding volumes shipped by mpc under joint tariffs with third parties. these common carrier pipelines transported the volumes shown in the mplx pipeline throughput information in the table below for each of the last three years. mpc-retained assets and investments we retained ownership interests in several crude oil and products pipeline systems and pipeline companies. mpc consolidated volumes transported through our common carrier pipelines, which include mplx and our undivided joint interests, are shown in the mpc consolidated pipeline throughput information in the following table for each of the last three years. the following table shows operating statistics for our midstream segment. midstream operating statistics 2015 2014 2013 mpc consolidated pipeline throughput (mbpd) crude oil pipelines 1,277 1,241 1,293 refined products pipelines 914 878 911 total 2,191 2,119 2,204 mplx pipeline throughput (mbpd) (a)(b) crude oil pipelines 1,061 1,041 1,075 refined products pipelines 914 878 911 total 1,975 1,919 1,986 gathering system throughput (mmcf/d) (c) 3,075 natural gas processed (mmcf/d) (c) 5,468 c2 (ethane) + ngls fractionated (mbpd) (c) 307 (a) mplx predecessor volumes reported in mplx's filings include our undivided joint interest crude oil pipeline systems for periods prior to mplx's initial public offering, which were not contributed to mplx. the undivided joint interest volumes are not included above. (b) volumes represent 100 percent of the throughput through these pipelines. (c) beginning december 4, 2015, which was the effective date of the markwest merger. the locations and detailed information about our midstream assets are included under item 2. properties and are incorporated herein by reference. 20 table of contents competition, market conditions and seasonality the downstream petroleum business is highly competitive, particularly with regard to accessing crude oil and other feedstock supply and the marketing of refined products. we compete with a large number of other companies to acquire crude oil for refinery processing and in the distribution and marketing of a full array of petroleum products. based upon the the oil &amp; gas journal 2015 worldwide refinery survey, we ranked fourth among u.s. petroleum companies on the basis of u.s. crude oil refining capacity as of december 31, 2015 . we compete in four distinct markets for the sale of refined products wholesale, spot, branded and retail distribution. we believe we compete with about 55 companies in the sale of refined products to wholesale marketing customers, including private-brand marketers and large commercial and industrial consumers; about 100 companies in the sale of refined products in the spot market; 12 refiners or marketers in the supply of refined products to refiner-branded independent entrepreneurs; and approximately 890 retailers in the retail sale of refined products. in addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and retail consumers. we do not produce any of the crude oil we refine. we also face strong competition for sales of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. our competitors include service stations and convenience stores operated by fully integrated major oil companies and their independent entrepreneurs and other well-recognized national or regional convenience stores and travel centers, often selling gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise at competitive prices. non-traditional retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, have affected the convenience store industry with their entrance into sales of retail gasoline and diesel fuel. energy analysts international, inc. estimated such retailers had approximately 13 percent of the u.s. gasoline market in mid- 2015 . our midstream operations face competition for natural gas gathering, crude oil transportation and in obtaining natural gas supplies for our processing and related services; in obtaining unprocessed ngls for gathering and fractionation; and in marketing our products and services. competition for natural gas supplies is based primarily on the location of gas gathering facilities and gas processing plants, operating efficiency and reliability and the ability to obtain a satisfactory price for products recovered. competitive factors affecting our fractionation services include availability of capacity, proximity to supply and industry marketing centers and cost efficiency and reliability of service. competition for customers to purchase our natural gas and ngls is based primarily on price, delivery capabilities, flexibility and maintenance of high-quality customer relationships. in addition, certain of our midstream operations are highly regulated, which affects the rates that our common carrier pipelines can charge for transportation services and the return we obtain from such pipelines. market conditions in the oil and gas industry are cyclical and subject to global economic and political events and new and changing governmental regulations. our operating results are affected by price changes in crude oil, natural gas and refined products, as well as changes in competitive conditions in the markets we serve. price differentials between sweet and sour crude oils, wti and lls crude oils and other market structure differentials also affect our operating results. demand for gasoline, diesel fuel and asphalt is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets, primarily due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and construction. as a result, the operating results for each of our segments for the first and fourth quarters may be lower than for those in the second and third quarters of each calendar year. our midstream segment can be affected by seasonal fluctuations in the demand for natural gas and ngls and the related fluctuations in commodity prices caused by various factors such as changes in transportation and travel patterns and variations in weather patterns from year to year. in the northeast region, we could be particularly impacted by seasonality as the majority of its revenues are generated by ngl sales. however, we manage the seasonality impact through the execution of our marketing strategy. we have access to up to 50 million gallons of propane storage capacity in the northeast region provided by an arrangement with a third-party which provides us with flexibility to manage the seasonality impact. overall, our exposure to the seasonal fluctuations in the commodity markets is declining due to our growth in fee-based business. environmental matters our management is responsible for ensuring that our operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that support and foster our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and for reviewing our overall environmental performance. we also have a corporate emergency response team that oversees our response to any major environmental or other emergency incident involving us or any of our facilities. we believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to issues concerning the extent and causes of climate change will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations. currently, legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gases are in various phases of review, discussion or implementation. the cost to comply with these laws and regulations cannot be estimated at this time, but could be significant. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors. we estimate and publicly report greenhouse gas emissions from our operations and products. additionally, we continuously strive to improve operational and energy efficiencies through resource and energy conservation where practicable. 21 table of contents our operations are subject to numerous other laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. such laws and regulations include, among others, the clean air act ( caa ) with respect to air emissions, the clean water act ( cwa ) with respect to water discharges, the resource conservation and recovery act ( rcra ) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ( cercla ) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances and the oil pollution act of 1990 ( opa-90 ) with respect to oil pollution and response. in addition, many states where we operate have similar laws. new laws are being enacted and regulations are being adopted on a continuing basis, and the costs of compliance with such new laws and regulations are very difficult to estimate until finalized. for a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and costs of compliance for air, water, solid waste and remediation, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - environmental matters and compliance costs. air we are subject to many requirements in connection with air emissions from our operations. internationally and domestically, emphasis has been placed on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. the u.s. pledge in 2009, as part of the copenhagen accord, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020 remains in effect and was reaffirmed in the president's 2013 climate action plan. the 2015 paris agreement on climate change does not legally require parties to the agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but the united states' future activities in response to the paris agreement are unknown. in 2009, the epa issued an endangerment finding that greenhouse gas emissions contribute to air pollution that endangers public health and welfare. related to the endangerment finding, in april 2010, the epa finalized a greenhouse gas emission standard for mobile sources (cars and other light duty vehicles). the endangerment finding, the mobile source standard and the epa's determination that greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the clean air act resulted in permitting of greenhouse gas emissions at stationary sources, but as a result of the epa's tailoring rule, permit applicability was limited to larger sources such as refineries. legal challenges were filed against these epa actions. in june 2014, the united states supreme court ruled that the clean air act prevention of significant deterioration program for new and modified stationary sources is not triggered by greenhouse gas emissions alone. the united states supreme court did, however, uphold the requirement for new or modified stationary sources that will also emit a criteria pollutant to control greenhouse gas emissions through best available control technology. implementing best available control technology may result in increased costs to our operations. a few mpc projects triggered greenhouse gas permitting requirements but any additional capital spending will likely not be significant. the epa has finalized source performance standards for greenhouse gas emissions for new and existing electric utility generating units. these standards could impact electric and natural gas rates for all our operations. legal challenges have been filed by several states and by industry groups seeking to overturn the final rules. congress may again also consider legislation on greenhouse gas emissions or a carbon tax. private parties have sued utilities and other emitters of greenhouse gas emissions, but such suits have been largely unsuccessful. we have not been named in any of those lawsuits. private parties have also sued federal and certain state governmental entities seeking additional greenhouse gas emission reductions beyond those currently being undertaken. in sum, requiring reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any greenhouse gas emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments. these requirements may also significantly affect mpc's refinery operations and may have an indirect effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the extent and magnitude of the impact from greenhouse gas regulation or legislation cannot be reasonably estimated due to the uncertainty regarding the additional measures and how they will be implemented. in 2013, the obama administration made changes to the social cost of carbon ( scc ) estimate. the scc was first issued in 2010. the scc is to be used by the epa and other federal agencies in regulatory cost-benefit analyses to take into account alleged broad economic consequences associated with changes to emissions of greenhouse gases. in 2013, the obama administration significantly increased the estimate to $36 per ton. in response to the regulated community and congress' critiques of how the scc was developed, the office of management and budget provided an opportunity to comment on the scc, but ultimately did not make any significant revisions. in december 2014, the white house council on environmental quality issued new draft guidance for assessing greenhouse gas emissions under the national environmental policy act, adding for the first time language that requires the analyses to also include the impact of climate change on projects, including using the scc when analyzing costs and benefits of a project. while the impact of a higher scc in future regulations is not known at this time, it may result in increased costs to our operations. in 2015, the epa finalized a revision to the national ambient air quality standards ( naaqs ) for ozone. the epa lowered the primary ozone naaqs from 75 ppb to 70 ppb. this revision initiates a multi-year process in which nonattainment designations will be made based on more recent ozone measurements that includes data from 2016. states will then propose 22 table of contents and adopt, as necessary, new rules reducing emissions to meet the new standard. currently, the epa is in the process of implementing the 75 ppb ozone standard that the epa had promulgated in march 2008. the impact of a stricter standard cannot be accurately estimated due to the present uncertainty regarding area nonattainment designations and the additional requirements that states may impose. additionally, legal petitions challenging the revised ozone standard have been filed with the court adding uncertainty to the revised standard. on september 29, 2015, the epa signed the final regulations revising existing refinery air emissions standards. the revised regulations were published in the federal register on december 1, 2015. the revised rule requires additional controls, lower emission standards and ambient air monitoring. we do not anticipate that mpc's costs to comply with the revised regulations will be material to our results of operations or cash flows. water we maintain numerous discharge permits as required under the national pollutant discharge elimination system program of the cwa and have implemented systems to oversee our compliance with these permits. in addition, we are regulated under opa-90, which among other things, requires the owner or operator of a tank vessel or a facility to maintain an emergency plan to respond to releases of oil or hazardous substances. also, in case of any such release, opa-90 requires the responsible company to pay resulting removal costs and damages. opa-90 also provides for civil penalties and imposes criminal sanctions for violations of its provisions. we have implemented emergency oil response plans for all of our components and facilities covered by opa-90 and we have established spill prevention, control and countermeasures plans for all facilities subject to such requirements. additionally, opa-90 requires that new tank vessels entering or operating in u.s. waters be double-hulled and that existing tank vessels that are not double-hulled be retrofitted or removed from u.s. service. all barges used for river transport of our raw materials and refined products meet the double-hulled requirements of opa-90. we operate facilities at which spills of oil and hazardous substances could occur. some coastal states in which we operate have passed state laws similar to opa-90, but with expanded liability provisions, that include provisions for cargo owner responsibility as well as ship owner and operator responsibility. in june 2015, the epa and the united states army corps of engineers finalized significant changes to the definition of the term waters of the united states ( wotus ) used in numerous programs under the cwa. this final rulemaking is referred to as the clean water rule. the clean water rule has been challenged in multiple federal courts by many states, trade groups, and other interested parties, and in october 2015, a united states court of appeals issued a nationwide stay of the clean water rule. the clean water rule, as written, expands permitting, planning and reporting obligations and may extend the timing to secure permits for pipeline and fixed asset construction and maintenance activities. the clean water rule does contain new language intended to address concerns that the proposed rule included storm water conveyances and storage structures as wotus, and we continue to review how that new language will apply under specific circumstances. court challenges of the clean water rule will continue through 2016. in 2015, the epa issued its intent to review the cwa categorical effluent limitation guidelines ( elg ) for the petroleum refining sector. during 2016, the epa will prepare and request significant wastewater and treatment process details for our refining operations. the epa has indicated they believe there have been significant changes in the characteristics of wastewaters generated within refining operations that warrant the review. specific targets for the review are the impacts of processing heavier crude oils and the transfer of air pollutants to wastewater when air pollution abatement devices are in use. a similar project, initiated in 2007 for steam power generation with similar attributes, resulted in a significant change in the treatment requirements for coal fired power plants. the refining sector elg review has the potential to result in a similar impact. we are actively engaged in the planning process for the 2016 information request and engaged with api and afpm on this matter. the typical life-cycle for an elg review from the intent to review to issuance of a final rule that would require upgrades is seven years. solid waste we continue to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. rcra establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. besides affecting waste disposal practices, rcra also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of usts containing regulated substances. we have ongoing rcra treatment and disposal operations at two of our facilities and primarily utilize offsite third-party treatment and disposal facilities. ongoing rcra-related costs, however, are not expected to be material to our results of operations or cash flows. 23 table of contents remediation we own or operate, or have owned or operated, certain convenience stores and other locations where, during the normal course of operations, releases of refined products from usts have occurred. federal and state laws require that contamination caused by such releases at these sites be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards. the enforcement of the ust regulations under rcra has been delegated to the states, which administer their own ust programs. our obligation to remediate such contamination varies, depending on the extent of the releases and the stringency of the applicable state laws and regulations. a portion of these remediation costs may be recoverable from the appropriate state ust reimbursement funds once the applicable deductibles have been satisfied. we also have ongoing remediation projects at a number of our current and former refinery, terminal and pipeline locations. penalties or other sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance. claims under cercla and similar state acts have been raised with respect to the clean-up of various waste disposal and other sites. cercla is intended to facilitate the clean-up of hazardous substances without regard to fault. potentially responsible parties for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the hazardous substances at the site. liability is strict and can be joint and several. because of various factors including the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and clean-up costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, we are unable to reasonably estimate our ultimate cost of compliance with cercla; however, we do not believe such costs will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. mileage standards, renewable fuels and other fuels requirements in 2007, the u.s. congress passed the energy independence and security act ( eisa ), which, among other things, set a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the united states by model year 2020, and contains the rfs2. in august 2012, the epa and the national highway traffic safety administration jointly adopted regulations that establish average industry fleet fuel economy standards for passenger cars and light trucks of up to 41 miles per gallon by model year 2021 and average fleet fuel economy standards of up to 49.7 miles per gallon by model year 2025 (the standards from 2022 to 2025 are the government's current estimate but will require further rulemaking). new or alternative transportation fuels such as compressed natural gas could also pose a competitive threat to our operations. the rfs2 required the total volume of renewable transportation fuels sold or introduced annually in the u.s. to reach 18.15 billion gallons in 2014, 20.5 billion gallons in 2015, 22.25 billion gallons in 2016 and increase to 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. within the total volume of renewable fuel, eisa established an advanced biofuel volume of 3.75 billion gallons in 2014, 5.5 billion gallons in 2015, 7.25 billion gallons in 2016, and increasing to 21.0 billion gallons in 2022. subsets within the advanced biofuel volume include biomass-based diesel, which was set as at least 1.0 billion gallons in 2014 through 2022 (to be determined by the epa through rulemaking), and cellulosic biofuel, which was set at 1.75 billion gallons in 2014, 3.0 billion gallons in 2015, 4.25 billion gallons in 2016, and increasing to 16.0 billion gallons in 2022. on november 30, 2015, the epa finalized the renewable fuel standards for the years of 2014, 2015 and 2016 as well as the biomass based diesel standard for 2017. because the epa missed the statutory deadlines for establishing the standards for 2014 and 2015, the epa set the standards using actual consumption data obtained from epa's tracking system, emts. the volumes in billions of gallons that were finalized are as follows: epa renewable fuel standards (billions of gallons) 2014 2015 2016 cellulosic ethanol 0.033 0.123 0.230 biomass based diesel 1.630 1.730 1.900 advanced biofuel 2.670 2.880 3.610 total renewable 16.280 16.930 18.110 these volumes, with the exception of biomass based diesel, represent a reduction from the statutory volumes. in the near term, the rfs2 will be satisfied primarily with ethanol blended into gasoline. vehicle, regulatory and infrastructure constraints limit the blending of significantly more than 10 percent ethanol into gasoline ( e10 ). the volumes for 2016 result in the ethanol content of gasoline exceeding the e10 blendwall, which will require obligated parties to either sell e15 or flexfuel at levels that exceed historical levels. neither e15 nor flexfuel has been readily accepted by the consumer. there are numerous issues, including state and federal regulatory issues, which need to be addressed before e15 can be marketed for use in traditional gasoline engines. with potentially uncertain supplies, the advanced biofuels programs may present specific challenges in that we may have to enter into arrangements with other parties or purchase credits from the epa to meet our obligations to use advanced biofuels, including biomass-based diesel and cellulosic biofuel. 24 table of contents we made investments in infrastructure capable of expanding biodiesel blending capability to help comply with the biodiesel rfs2 requirement by buying and blending biodiesel into our refined diesel product, and by buying needed biodiesel rins in the epa-created biodiesel rins market. on april 1, 2014, we purchased a facility in cincinnati, ohio, which currently produces biodiesel, glycerin and other by-products. the capacity of the plant is approximately 60 million gallons per year. as a producer of biodiesel, we now generate rins, thereby reducing our reliance on the external rin market. on october 13, 2010, the epa issued a partial waiver decision under the caa to allow for an increase in the amount of ethanol permitted to be blended into gasoline from e10 to e15 for 2007 and newer light-duty motor vehicles. on january 21, 2011, the epa issued a second waiver for the use of e15 in vehicles model year 2001-2006. there are numerous issues, including state and federal regulatory issues, which need to be addressed before e15 can be marketed for use in traditional gasoline engines. there will be costs and uncertainties regarding how we will comply with the various requirements contained in eisa and related regulations. the rfs2 has required, and may in the future continue to require, additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. we may experience a decrease in demand for refined petroleum products due to an increase in combined fleet mileage or due to refined petroleum products being replaced by renewable fuels. on march 3, 2014, the epa signed the final tier 3 fuel standards. the final tier 3 fuel standards require, among other things, a lower annual average sulfur level in gasoline to no more than 10 ppm beginning in calendar year 2017. in addition, gasoline refiners and importers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 80 ppm while retailers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 95 ppm. we anticipate that we will spend an estimated $750 million to $1 billion between 2014 and 2019 for capital expenditures necessary to comply with these standards, a majority of which is expected to be spent in the years of 2017 through 2019. trademarks, patents and licenses our marathon trademark is material to the conduct of our refining and marketing operations, and our speedway trademark is material to the conduct of our retail marketing operations. we currently hold a number of u.s. and foreign patents and have various pending patent applications. although in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important to us, we do not regard any single patent or license or group of related patents or licenses as critical or essential to our business as a whole. in general, we depend on our technological capabilities and the application of know-how rather than patents and licenses in the conduct of our operations. employees we had approximately 45,440 regular employees as of december 31, 2015 , which includes approximately 33,820 employees of speedway. certain hourly employees at our canton, catlettsburg, galveston bay and texas city refineries are represented by the united steel, paper and forestry, rubber, manufacturing, energy, allied industrial and service workers union under labor agreements that are due to expire in 2019. the international brotherhood of teamsters represents certain hourly employees at our detroit refinery under a labor agreement that is also scheduled to expire in 2019. in addition, they represent certain hourly employees at speedway under agreements that cover certain outlets in new york and new jersey that expire on march 14, 2016 and june 30, 2016. 25 table of contents executive and corporate officers of the registrant the executive and corporate officers of mpc and their ages as of january 31, 2016 , are as follows: name age position with mpc gary r. heminger 62 president and chief executive officer richard d. bedell 61 senior vice president, refining timothy t. griffith 46 senior vice president and chief financial officer john r. haley (a) 59 vice president, tax james p. heintschel (a) 59 vice president, business development thomas kaczynski 54 vice president, finance and treasurer thomas m. kelley 56 senior vice president, marketing anthony r. kenney 62 president, speedway llc rodney p. nichols 63 senior vice president, human resources and administrative services randy s. nickerson 54 executive vice president, corporate strategy c. michael palmer 62 senior vice president, supply, distribution and planning john j. quaid 44 vice president and controller john s. swearingen 56 senior vice president, transportation and logistics donald c. templin 52 executive vice president donald w. wehrly (a) 56 vice president and chief information officer david l. whikehart (a) 56 vice president, corporate planning, government and public affairs j. michael wilder 63 vice president, general counsel and secretary (a) corporate officer. mr. heminger was appointed president and chief executive officer effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. heminger was president of marathon petroleum company lp (formerly known as marathon ashland petroleum llc and marathon petroleum company llc), currently a wholly-owned subsidiary of mpc and prior to the spinoff, a wholly-owned subsidiary of marathon oil. he assumed responsibility as president of marathon petroleum company lp in september 2001. mr. bedell was appointed senior vice president, refining effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. bedell served in the same capacity for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in june 2010 and as manager, louisiana refining division beginning in 2001. mr. bedell has elected to retire effective march 1, 2016. mr. griffith was appointed senior vice president and chief financial officer effective march 3, 2015. prior to this appointment, mr. griffith served as vice president, finance and investor relations, and treasurer beginning in january 2014. he was vice president of finance and treasurer beginning in august 2011. previously, mr. griffith was vice president investor relations and treasurer of smurfit-stone container corporation, a packaging manufacturer, in st. louis, missouri, from 2008 to 2011. mr. haley was appointed vice president, tax effective june 1, 2013. prior to this appointment, mr. haley served as director of tax beginning in july 2011 and as a tax manager for marathon oil company beginning in 1996. mr. heintschel was appointed vice president, business development effective march 3, 2015. prior to this appointment, mr. heintschel served as director of business development beginning in december 2009. previously, he served as special products marketing manager beginning in 2002. mr. kaczynski was appointed vice president, finance and treasurer effective august 31, 2015. prior to this appointment, mr. kaczynski was vice president and treasurer of goodyear tire and rubber company beginning in 2014. previously, he served as vice president, investor relations, of goodyear tire and rubber company beginning in 2013, vice president and corporate treasurer of affinia group inc. beginning in 2005, and director of affiliate finance and of capital markets and bank relations of visteon corporation beginning in 2000. mr. kelley was appointed senior vice president, marketing effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. kelley served in the same capacity for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in january 2010. previously, he served as director of crude supply and logistics for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in january 2008, and as a brand marketing manager for eight years prior to that. mr. kenney has served as president of speedway llc since august 2005. 26 table of contents mr. nichols was appointed senior vice president, human resources and administrative services effective march 1, 2012. prior to this appointment, mr. nichols served as vice president, human resources and administrative services beginning on june 30, 2011 and served in the same capacity for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in april 1998. mr. nickerson was appointed executive vice president, corporate strategy effective december 4, 2015 at the time of the markwest merger. prior to this appointment, mr. nickerson served as chief commercial officer of markwest beginning in 2006 and senior vice president, corporate development beginning in 2003. mr. palmer was appointed senior vice president, supply, distribution and planning effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. palmer served as vice president, supply, distribution and planning for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in june 2010. he served as crude supply and logistics director for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in february 2010, and as senior vice president, oil sands operations and commercial activities for marathon oil canada corporation beginning in 2007. mr. quaid was appointed vice president and controller effective june 23, 2014. prior to this appointment, mr. quaid was vice president of iron ore at united states steel corporation ( u. s. steel ), an integrated steel producer, beginning in january 2014. previously, mr. quaid served in various leadership positions at u. s. steel since february 2002, including vice president and treasurer beginning in august 2011, controller, north american flat-rolled operations beginning in july 2010 and assistant corporate controller beginning in 2008. mr. swearingen was appointed senior vice president, transportation and logistics effective march 3, 2015. prior to this appointment, mr. swearingen served as vice president of health, environmental, safety &amp; security beginning june 30, 2011. previously, he was president of marathon pipe line llc beginning in 2009 and the illinois refining division manager beginning in november 2001. mr. templin was appointed executive vice president effective january 1, 2016. prior to this appointment, mr. templin served as executive vice president, supply, transportation and marketing beginning march 3, 2015 and senior vice president and chief financial officer beginning on june 30, 2011. previously, he was a partner at pricewaterhousecoopers llp, an audit, tax and advisory services provider, with various audit and management responsibilities beginning in 1996. mr. wehrly was appointed vice president and chief information officer effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. wehrly was the manager of information technology services for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in 2003. mr. whikehart was appointed vice president, corporate planning, government &amp; public affairs effective january 1, 2016. prior to this appointment, mr. whikehart was the director, product supply and optimization beginning in march 2011. previously, mr. whikehart served as director, climate change and carbon management beginning in 2010 and director, business development beginning in 2008. effective february 29, 2016, mr. whikehart was appointed vice president, environmental, safety and corporate affairs. mr. wilder was appointed vice president, general counsel and secretary effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. wilder was associate general counsel of marathon oil company beginning in 2010 and general counsel and secretary of marathon petroleum company lp beginning in 1997. mr. wilder has elected to retire effective march 1, 2016. pamela k.m. beall was appointed executive vice president, corporate planning and strategy of mplx effective january 1, 2016. prior to this appointment, ms. beall was senior vice president, corporate planning, government &amp; public affairs beginning in january 2014, vice president, investor relations and government &amp; public affairs beginning in 2011, vice president, products supply and optimization of marathon petroleum company lp beginning in 2010 and vice president of global procurement for marathon oil company beginning in 2007. raymond l. brooks, general manager, galveston bay refinery, was appointed senior vice president, refining effective march 1, 2016. prior to this appointment, mr. brooks was general manager, galveston bay refinery beginning in february 2013, general manager, robinson refinery beginning in 2010 and general manager, st. paul park, minnesota refinery (no longer owned by mpc) beginning in 2006. suzanne gagle, assistant general counsel, litigation and human resources, was appointed vice president and general counsel effective march 1, 2016. prior to this appointment, ms. gagle was assistant general counsel, litigation and human resources beginning in april 2011, senior group counsel, downstream operations beginning in 2010 and group counsel, litigation, beginning in 2003. 27 table of contents molly r. benson, assistant general counsel, corporate and finance was appointed vice president, corporate secretary and chief compliance officer effective march 1, 2016. prior to this appointment, ms. benson was assistant general counsel, corporate and finance beginning in april 2012, group counsel, corporate and finance beginning in 2011, group counsel, north american production for marathon oil company beginning in 2010 and senior attorney, downstream business beginning in 2006. available information general information about mpc, including corporate governance principles and charters for the audit committee, compensation committee and corporate governance and nominating committee, can be found at http://ir.marathonpetroleum.com . in addition, our code of business conduct and code of ethics for senior financial officers are also available in this same location. mpc uses its website, www.marathonpetroleum.com , as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, financial information and market data. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished with the sec. these documents are also available in hard copy, free of charge, by contacting our investor relations office. in addition, our website allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive email alerts when we post news releases and financial information on our website. information contained on our website is not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k or other securities filings. 28 table of contents item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k in evaluating us and our common stock. some of these risks relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate, while others relate to the ownership of our common stock. our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks, and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline. risks relating to our business a substantial or extended decline in refining and marketing gross margins would reduce our operating results and cash flows and could materially and adversely impact our future rate of growth, the carrying value of our assets and our ability to execute share repurchases and continue the payment of our base dividend. our operating results, cash flows, future rate of growth, the carrying value of our assets and our ability to execute share repurchases and continue the payment of our base dividend are highly dependent on the margins we realize on our refined products. the measure of the difference between market prices for refined products and crude oil, or crack spread, is commonly used by the industry as a proxy for refining and marketing gross margins. historically, refining and marketing gross margins have been volatile, and we believe they will continue to be volatile. our margins from the sale of gasoline and other refined products are influenced by a number of conditions, including the price of crude oil. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all of the crude oil we refine. the price of crude oil and the price at which we can sell our refined products may fluctuate independently due to a variety of regional and global market conditions. any overall change in crack spreads will impact our refining and marketing gross margins. many of the factors influencing a change in crack spreads and refining and marketing gross margins are beyond our control. these factors include: worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for crude oil and refined products; the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks to be manufactured into refined products; the prices realized for refined products; utilization rates of refineries; natural gas and electricity supply costs incurred by refineries; the ability of the members of opec to agree to and maintain production controls; political instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions; local weather conditions; seasonality of demand in our marketing area due to increased highway traffic in the spring and summer months; natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornadoes; the price and availability of alternative and competing forms of energy; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and local, regional, national and worldwide economic conditions. some of these factors can vary by region and may change quickly, adding to market volatility, while others may have longer-term effects. the longer-term effects of these and other factors on refining and marketing gross margins are uncertain. we purchase our crude oil and other refinery feedstocks weeks before we refine them and sell the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. we also purchase refined products manufactured by others for resale to our customers. price changes during the periods between purchasing and reselling those refined products also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. lower refining and marketing gross margins may reduce the amount of refined products we produce, which may reduce our revenues, income from operations and cash flows. significant reductions in refining and marketing gross margins could require us to reduce our capital expenditures, impair the carrying value of our assets (such as property, plant and equipment, inventory or goodwill), decrease or eliminate our share repurchase activity and our base dividend. 29 table of contents our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. failure to manage risks associated with business interruptions could adversely impact our operations, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to business interruptions due to scheduled refinery turnarounds, unplanned maintenance or unplanned events such as explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents, power outages, severe weather, labor disputes, or other natural or man-made disasters, such as acts of terrorism. for example, pipelines provide a nearly-exclusive form of transportation of crude oil to, or refined products from, some of our refineries. in such instances, a prolonged interruption in service of such a pipeline could materially and adversely affect the operations, profitability and cash flows of the impacted refinery. explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents involving our assets or operations could result in serious personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property and equipment, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us. damages resulting from an incident involving any of our assets or operations may result in our being named as a defendant in one or more lawsuits asserting potentially substantial claims or in our being assessed potentially substantial fines by governmental authorities. we do not insure against all potential losses, and, therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected liabilities and increased costs. we maintain insurance coverage in amounts we believe to be prudent against many, but not all, potential liabilities arising from operating hazards. uninsured liabilities arising from operating hazards, including but not limited to, explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents involving our assets or operations, could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. historically, we also have maintained insurance coverage for physical damage and resulting business interruption to our major facilities, with significant self-insured retentions. in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance of the types and amounts we desire at reasonable rates. we rely on the performance of our information technology systems, the failure of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are heavily dependent on our information technology systems and network infrastructure and maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. these information systems involve data network and telecommunications, internet access and website functionality, and various computer hardware equipment and software applications, including those that are critical to the safe operation of our business. these systems and infrastructure are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources including natural disasters, software viruses or other malware, power failures, cyber-attacks and other events. we also face various other cyber-security threats, including threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable. to protect against such attempts of unauthorized access or attack, we have implemented infrastructure protection technologies and disaster recovery plans. there can be no guarantee such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be effective. the retail market is diverse and highly competitive, and very aggressive competition could adversely impact our business. we face strong competition in the market for the sale of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. our competitors include outlets owned or operated by fully integrated major oil companies or their dealers or jobbers, and other well-recognized national or regional retail outlets, often selling gasoline or merchandise at very competitive prices. several non-traditional retailers such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants are in the retail business. these non-traditional gasoline retailers have obtained a significant share of the transportation fuels market and we expect their market share to grow. because of their diversity, integration of operations, experienced management and greater financial resources, these companies may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions or levels of low or no profitability in the retail segment of the market. in addition, these retailers may use promotional pricing or discounts, both at the pump and in the store, to encourage in-store merchandise sales. these activities by our competitors could pressure us to offer similar discounts, adversely affecting our profit margins. additionally, the loss of market share by our convenience stores to these and other retailers relating to either gasoline or merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the development, availability and marketing of alternative and competing fuels in the retail market could adversely impact our business. we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel needs of our consumers. increased competition from these alternatives as a result of governmental regulations, technological advances and consumer demand could have an impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability. 30 table of contents we are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil and refined products. we utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil and refined products to and from our refineries. in addition to our own operational risks discussed above, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines, railways or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations or third-party actions. a prolonged disruption of the ability of the pipelines, railways or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products to or from one or more of our refineries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may incur losses to our business as a result of our forward-contract activities and derivative transactions. we currently use commodity derivative instruments, and we expect to enter into these types of transactions in the future. a failure of a futures commission merchant or counterparty to perform would affect these transactions. to the extent the instruments we utilize to manage these exposures are not effective, we may incur losses related to the ineffective portion of the derivative transaction or costs related to moving the derivative positions to another futures commission merchant or counterparty once a failure has occurred. we have significant debt obligations; therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed by a deterioration of our credit profile, a decrease in debt capacity or unsecured commercial credit available to us, or by factors adversely affecting credit markets generally. at december 31, 2015 , our total debt obligations for borrowed money and capital lease obligations were $12.5 billion , including $5.7 billion of obligations of mplx. we may incur substantial additional debt obligations in the future. our indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could have material adverse consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends and other purposes. a decrease in our debt or commercial credit capacity, including unsecured credit extended by third-party suppliers, or a deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and/or limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have a trade receivables securitization facility that provides liquidity of up to $1.0 billion depending on the amount of eligible domestic trade accounts receivables. in periods of lower prices, we may not have sufficient eligible accounts receivables to support full availability of this facility. historic or current operations could subject us to significant legal liability or restrict our ability to operate. we currently are defending litigation and anticipate we will be required to defend new litigation in the future. our operations, including liabilities assumed by mplx in the markwest merger, and those of our predecessors could expose us to litigation and civil claims by private plaintiffs for alleged damages related to contamination of the environment or personal injuries caused by releases of hazardous substances from our facilities, products liability, consumer credit or privacy laws, product pricing or antitrust laws or any other laws or regulations that apply to our operations. while an adverse outcome in most litigation matters would not be expected to be material to us, in class-action litigation, large classes of plaintiffs may allege damages relating to extended periods of time or other alleged facts and circumstances that could increase the amount of potential damages. attorneys general and other government officials may pursue litigation in which they seek to recover civil damages from companies on behalf of a state or its citizens for a variety of claims, including violation of consumer protection and product pricing laws or natural resources damages. we are defending litigation of that type and anticipate that we will be required to defend new litigation of that type in the future. if we are not able to successfully defend such litigation, it may result in liability to our company that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we do not have insurance covering all of these potential liabilities. in addition to substantial liability, plaintiffs in 31 table of contents litigation may also seek injunctive relief which, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a portion of our workforce is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. approximately 36 percent of our refining employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. certain hourly employees at our canton, catlettsburg, galveston bay and texas city refineries are represented by the united steel, paper and forestry, rubber, manufacturing, energy, allied industrial and service workers union under labor agreements that are due to expire in 2019. the international brotherhood of teamsters represents certain hourly employees at our detroit refinery under a labor agreement that is also scheduled to expire in 2019. in addition, they represent certain hourly employees at speedway under agreements that cover certain outlets in new york and new jersey that expire between on march 14, 2016 and june 30, 2016. these contracts may be renewed at an increased cost to us. in addition, we have experienced, or may experience, work stoppages as a result of labor disagreements. any prolonged work stoppages disrupting operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a publicly traded master limited partnership, mplx, which may involve a greater exposure to certain legal liabilities than existed under our historic business operations. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of mplx, a publicly traded master limited partnership. our control of the general partner of mplx may increase the possibility of claims of breach of fiduciary duties including claims of conflicts of interest related to mplx. any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if foreign ownership of our stock exceeds certain levels, we could be prohibited from operating inland river vessels, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the shipping act of 1916 and merchant marine act of 1920, which we refer to collectively as the maritime laws, generally require that vessels engaged in u.s. coastwise trade be owned by u.s. citizens. among other requirements to establish citizenship, corporations that own such vessels must be owned at least 75 percent by u.s. citizens. if we fail to maintain compliance with the maritime laws, we would be prohibited from operating vessels in the u.s. inland waters. such a prohibition could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to certain continuing contingent liabilities of marathon oil relating to taxes and other matters and to potential liabilities pursuant to the tax sharing agreement we entered into with marathon oil that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. although the spinoff occurred in mid-2011, certain liabilities of marathon oil could become our obligations. for example, under the internal revenue code of 1986 (the code ) and related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the spinoff is jointly and severally liable for the federal income tax liability of the entire marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. in connection with the spinoff, we entered into a tax sharing agreement with marathon oil that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group between us and marathon oil. however, if marathon oil is unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes. other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans as well as other contingent liabilities. also pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, following the spinoff we are responsible generally for all taxes attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries, whether accruing before, on or after the spinoff. we also agreed to be responsible for, and indemnify marathon oil with respect to, all taxes arising as a result of the spinoff (or certain internal restructuring transactions) failing to qualify as transactions under sections 368(a) and 355 of the code for u.s. federal income tax purposes to the extent such tax liability arises as a result of any breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or other obligation by us or certain affiliates made in connection with the issuance of the private letter ruling relating to the spinoff or in the tax sharing agreement. in addition, we agreed to indemnify marathon oil for specified tax-related liabilities associated with our 2005 acquisition of the minority interest in our refining joint venture from ashland inc. our indemnification obligations to marathon oil and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited or subject to any cap. if we are required to indemnify marathon oil and its subsidiaries and their respective officers and directors under the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. at this time, we cannot precisely quantify the amount of these liabilities that have been assumed pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, and there can be no assurances as to their final amounts. the tax liabilities described in this paragraph could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. 32 table of contents the spinoff could be determined not to qualify as a tax-free transaction, and marathon oil and its stockholders could be subject to material amounts of taxes and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify marathon oil for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax sharing agreement. marathon oil received a private letter ruling from the irs, to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of shares of mpc common stock in the spinoff qualifies as tax-free to marathon oil, us and marathon oil stockholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a) and related provisions of the code. if the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, then marathon oil would not be able to continue to rely on the ruling. we are not aware of any facts or circumstances that would cause the assumptions or representations that were relied on in the private letter ruling to be inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect. if, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling, the spinoff were determined not to qualify under section 355 of the code, marathon oil would be subject to tax as if it had sold its shares of common stock of our company in a taxable sale for their fair market value and would recognize a taxable gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of such shares over its tax basis in such shares. with respect to taxes and other liabilities that could be imposed on marathon oil in connection with the spinoff (and certain related transactions) as a result of a final determination that is inconsistent with the anticipated tax consequences as set forth in the private letter ruling, we would be liable to marathon oil under the tax sharing agreement for any such taxes or liabilities attributable to actions taken by or with respect to us, any of our affiliates, or any person that, after the spinoff, is our affiliate. we may be similarly liable if we breach specified representations or covenants set forth in the tax sharing agreement. if we are required to indemnify marathon oil for taxes incurred as a result of the spinoff (or certain related transactions) being taxable to marathon oil, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have potential liabilities pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement we entered into with marathon oil in connection with the spinoff that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in connection with the spinoff, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with marathon oil that provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions that were required to affect the spinoff, certain conditions to the spinoff and provisions governing the relationship between our company and marathon oil with respect to and resulting from the spinoff. among other things, the separation and distribution agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our downstream business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the spinoff, as well as certain obligations of marathon oil assumed by us. our obligations to indemnify marathon oil under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement could subject us to substantial liabilities. marathon oil also agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. however, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities retained by marathon oil, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from marathon oil will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, that marathon oil will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations or that marathon oil's insurers will cover us for liabilities associated with occurrences prior to the spinoff. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from marathon oil or its insurers any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. if marathon oil is unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations, the underlying liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not realize the growth opportunities and commercial synergies that are anticipated from the markwest merger. the benefits that are expected to result from the markwest merger will depend, in part, on mplx's ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and commercial synergies as a result of the markwest merger. mplx's success in realizing these growth opportunities and commercial synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of mplx and markwest. there is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of integrating an acquisition as sizable as markwest. the process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of mplx and markwest. members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our company, maintain relationships with employees, customers or suppliers, attract new customers and develop new strategies. if senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. there can be no assurance that mplx will successfully or cost-effectively integrate markwest. the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 33 table of contents even if mplx is able to integrate markwest successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities and commercial synergies that we currently expect from this integration, and we cannot guarantee that these benefits will be achieved within anticipated time frames or at all. for example, mplx may not be able to eliminate duplicative costs. moreover, mplx may incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of markwest. while it is anticipated that certain expenses will be incurred to achieve commercial synergies, such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately, and may exceed current estimates. accordingly, the benefits from the markwest merger may be offset by costs incurred to, or delays in, integrating the businesses. significant acquisitions in the future will involve the integration of new assets or businesses and present substantial risks that could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows . in addition to the markwest merger, significant future transactions involving the addition of new assets or businesses will present potential risks, which may include, among others: inaccurate assumptions about future synergies, revenues, capital expenditures and operating costs; an inability to successfully integrate assets or businesses we acquire; a decrease in our liquidity resulting from using a portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity under our revolving credit agreement to finance transactions; a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance transactions; the assumption of unknown environmental and other liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and the incurrence of other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. a significant decrease or delay in oil and natural gas production in mplx's areas of operation, whether due to sustained declines in oil, natural gas and ngl prices, natural declines in well production, or otherwise, may adversely affect mplx's business, results of operations and financial condition, and could reduce mplx's ability to make distributions to us. a significant portion of mplx's operations are dependent upon production from oil and natural gas reserves and wells, which will naturally decline over time, which means that mplx's cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. to maintain or increase throughput levels and the utilization rate of mplx's facilities, mplx must continually obtain new oil, natural gas, ngl and refined product supplies, which depends in part on the level of successful drilling activity near its facilities. we have no control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of mplx's operations, the amount of reserves associated with the wells or the rate at which production from a well will decline. in addition, we have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, drilling costs per mcf or barrel, demand for hydrocarbons, operational challenges, access to downstream markets, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations and the availability and cost of capital. because of these factors, even if new oil or natural gas reserves are discovered in areas served by mplx assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. if mplx is not able to obtain new supplies of oil or natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells, throughput on mplx pipelines and the utilization rates of mplx facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on mplx's business, results of operations and financial condition and could reduce mplx's ability to make distributions to us. decreases in energy prices can decrease drilling activity, production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. the prices for oil, natural gas and ngls depend upon factors beyond our control, including global and local demand, production levels, changes in interstate pipeline gas quality specifications, imports and exports, seasonality and weather conditions, economic and political conditions domestically and internationally and governmental regulations. sustained periods of low prices could result in producers also significantly curtailing or limiting their oil and gas drilling operations which could substantially delay the production and delivery of volumes of oil, gas and ngls to mplx's facilities and adversely affect mplx's revenues and cash available for distribution to us. this impact may also be exacerbated due to the extent of mplx's commodity-based contracts, which are more directly impacted by changes in gas and ngl prices than its fee-based contracts due to frac spread exposure and may result in operating losses when natural gas becomes more expensive on a btu equivalent basis than ngl products. in addition, mplx's purchase and resale of gas and ngls in the ordinary course exposes mplx to significant risk of volatility in gas or ngl prices due to the potential difference in the time of the purchases and sales and the potential difference in the price associated with each transaction, and direct exposure may also occur naturally as a result of mplx's production processes. the significant fluctuation and decline in natural gas, ngl 34 table of contents and oil prices currently occurring has adversely impacted mplx's unit price, thereby increasing its distribution yield and cost of capital. such impacts could adversely impact mplx's ability to execute its long term organic growth projects, satisfy obligations to its customers and make distributions to unitholders at intended levels, and may also result in non-cash impairments of long-lived assets or goodwill or other-than-temporary non-cash impairments of our equity method investments. risks relating to our industry changes in environmental or other laws or regulations may reduce our refining and marketing gross margin and may result in substantial capital expenditures and operating costs that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. various laws and regulations are expected to impose increasingly stringent and costly requirements on our operations, which may reduce our refining and marketing gross margin. laws and regulations expected to become more stringent relate to the following: the emission or discharge of materials into the environment, solid and hazardous waste management, pollution prevention, greenhouse gas emissions, characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, public and employee safety and health, and facility security. the specific impact of laws and regulations on us and our competitors may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of operating facilities, marketing areas, crude oil and feedstock sources and production processes. we may be required to make expenditures to modify operations, install pollution control equipment, perform site cleanups or curtail operations that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. because the issue of climate change continues to receive scientific and political attention, there is the potential for further laws and regulations that could affect our operations. the u.s. pledge in 2009, as part of the copenhagen accord, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020 remains in effect and was reaffirmed in the president's 2013 climate action plan. the 2015 paris un climate change conference agreement aims to hold the increase in the global average temperature to well below two degrees celsius above pre-industrial levels. the paris agreement does not legally require parties to the agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but the u.s.'s future activities in response to the paris agreement may result in regulations to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions. in october 2015, the epa finalized regulations to reduce carbon emissions from new, modified, and reconstructed power plants (new source performance standards) and from existing power plants (existing source performance standards; also known as the clean power plan). through the regulations, the epa is requiring a reduction in nationwide carbon emissions from the power generation sector by 32 percent below 2005 levels. these standards could increase our electricity costs and potentially reduce the reliability of our electricity supply. in february 2016, the u.s. supreme court stayed implementation of the clean power plan until the legal challenge filed by several states and industry could be heard by the courts. the obama administration has also developed the social cost of carbon ( scc ), which is to be used by the epa and other federal agencies in regulatory cost-benefit analyses to take into account alleged broad economic consequences associated with changes to emissions of greenhouse gases. the scc was first issued in 2010. in 2013, the obama administration significantly increased the estimate to $36 per ton. in response to the regulated community and congress' critiques of how the scc was developed, the office of management and budget ( omb ) provided an opportunity to comment on the scc. in july 2015, the omb issued a response to comments and a revised technical support document explaining adjustments to the scc calculations. additionally, in december 2014, the white house council on environmental quality issued new draft guidance for assessing greenhouse gas emissions under the national environmental policy act, adding for the first time language that requires that analyses also include the impact of climate change on projects, including using the scc when analyzing costs and benefits of a project. while the impact of a higher scc in future regulations is not known at this time, it may result in increased costs to our operations. 35 table of contents an article on the social cost of methane has also been published and was used by the epa in its regulatory impact analysis of the proposed emission standards for new and modified sources in the oil and natural gas sector. these regulations were proposed pursuant to president obama's strategy to reduce methane emissions as part of the administration's efforts to reduce methane emissions from the oil and gas sector by up to 45 percent from 2012 levels by 2025. the finalization of these regulations could directly impact mplx by creating delays in the construction and installation of new facilities due to more stringent permitting requirements, increasing costs to reduce ghg emissions or requiring aggregation of emissions from separate facilities for permitting purposes. these regulations may also impact us by increasing the costs of domestic crude supplies. in the future, congress may again consider legislation on greenhouse gas emissions or a carbon tax. other measures to address greenhouse gas emissions are in various phases of review or implementation in the u.s. these measures include state actions to develop statewide or regional programs to impose emission reductions. private party litigation is pending against federal and certain state governmental entities seeking additional greenhouse gas emission reductions beyond those currently being undertaken. these actions could result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, capital expenditures to install new emission controls and costs to administer any carbon trading or tax programs implemented. although uncertain, these developments could increase our costs, reduce the demand for the products we sell and create delays in our obtaining air pollution permits for new or modified facilities. in october 2015, the epa reduced the primary (health) ozone national ambient air quality standards ( naaqs ) to 70 ppb from the prior ozone level of 75 ppb. the epa is expected to finalize new ozone attainment and nonattainment designations by late 2017, using 2014-2016 air quality monitor data. the lower primary ozone standard may not by attainable in some areas and could result in the cancellation or delay of capital projects at our facilities or increased costs related to an increase in the production of low reid vapor pressure (rvp) gasoline. the eisa establishes increases in fuel mileage standards and contains a second renewable fuel standard commonly referred to as rfs2. increases in fuel mileage standards and the increased use of renewable fuels (including ethanol and advanced biofuels) may reduce demand for refined products. governmental regulations encouraging the use of new or alternative fuels could also pose a competitive threat to our operations. specifically, the rfs2 required the total volume of renewable transportation fuels sold or introduced annually in the u.s. to reach 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. the rfs2 presents production and logistics challenges for both the renewable fuels and petroleum refining industries, and may continue to require additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. gasoline consumption has been lower than forecasted by the epa, which has led to concerns that the renewable fuel volumes may not be met. the 2014, 2015, and 2016 renewable fuel standards were finalized and published on december 14, 2015. the final standards are lower than the statutory requirements but nevertheless result in volumes that breach the ethanol blendwall. the advanced biofuels program, a subset of the rfs2 requirements, creates uncertainties and presents challenges of supply, and may require that we and other refiners and other obligated parties purchase credits from the epa to meet our obligations. tax incentives and other subsidies have also made renewable fuels more competitive with refined products than they otherwise would have been, which may further reduce refined product margins. on march 3, 2014, the epa signed the final tier 3 fuel standards. the final tier 3 fuel standards require, among other things, a lower annual average sulfur level in gasoline to no more than 10 parts ppm beginning in calendar year 2017. in addition, gasoline refiners and importers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 80 ppm, while retailers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 95 ppm. we anticipate that we will spend an estimated $750 million to $1 billion between 2014 and 2019 for capital expenditures necessary to comply with these standards. federal, state and local legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could delay or impede producer's gas production or result in reduced volumes available for mplx to gather, process and fractionate. mplx does not conduct hydraulic fracturing operations, but it does provide gathering, processing and fractionation services with respect to natural gas and natural gas liquids produced by its customers as a result of such operations. if federal, state or local laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such legal requirements could make it more difficult to complete natural gas wells in shale formations and increase producers' costs of compliance. severe weather events may adversely affect our facilities and ongoing operations. for a variety of reasons, natural and/or anthropogenic, some members of the scientific community believe that climate changes could occur that could have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts and floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. 36 table of contents plans we may have to expand existing assets or construct new assets are subject to risks associated with societal and political pressures and other forms of opposition to the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels. such risks could adversely impact our business and ability to realize certain growth strategies. our anticipated growth and planned expenditures are based upon the assumption that societal sentiment will continue to enable and existing regulations will remain intact to allow for the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels. a portion of our growth strategy is dependent on our ability to expand existing assets and to construct additional assets. however, policy decisions relating to the production, refining, transportation and marketing of carbon-based fuels are subject to political pressures and the influence of environmental and other special interest groups. the construction of new refinery processing units or crude oil or refined products pipelines, or the extension or expansion of existing assets, involve numerous political and legal uncertainties, many of which may cause significant delays or cost increases and most of which are beyond our control. delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities (including improvements and repairs to our existing facilities) could adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results, thereby limiting our ability to grow and generate cash flows. large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting project returns. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we produce. such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: denial of or delay in receiving requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of components or construction materials; adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors or suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or subcontractors. any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our ongoing capital projects. if we were unable to make up the delays associated with such factors or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the availability of crude oil and increases in crude oil prices may reduce profitability and refining and marketing gross margins. the profitability of our operations depends largely on the difference between the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks we refine and the selling prices we obtain for refined products. a portion of our crude oil is purchased from various foreign national oil companies, producing companies and trading companies, including suppliers from canada, the middle east and various other international locations. the market for crude oil and other feedstocks is largely a world market. we are, therefore, subject to the attendant political, geographic and economic risks of such a market. if one or more major supply sources were temporarily or permanently eliminated, we believe adequate alternative supplies of crude oil would be available, but it is possible we would be unable to find alternative sources of supply. if we are unable to obtain adequate crude oil volumes or are able to obtain such volumes only at unfavorable prices, our operations, sales of refined products and refining and marketing gross margins could be adversely affected, materially and adversely impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 37 table of contents worldwide political and economic developments could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition to impacting crude oil and other feedstock supplies, political and economic factors in global markets could have a material adverse effect on us in other ways. hostilities in the middle east or the occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economies of the u.s. and other developed countries. a lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could cause our revenues and margins to decline and limit our future growth prospects. these risks could lead to increased volatility in prices for refined products, ngls and natural gas. additionally, these risks could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult and/or costly for us to access capital and to obtain the insurance coverage that we consider adequate. additionally, tax policy, legislative or regulatory action and commercial restrictions could reduce our operating profitability. for example, the u.s. government could prevent or restrict exports of refined products, ngls, natural gas or the conduct of business with certain foreign countries. compliance with and changes in tax laws could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal and state income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales and use, payroll, franchise, withholding and property taxes. new tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations could result in increased expenditures by us for tax liabilities in the future and could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, many tax liabilities are subject to periodic audits by taxing authorities, and such audits could subject us to interest and penalties. terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities or that impact our customers or the markets we serve could adversely affect our business. the u.s. government has issued warnings that energy assets in general, including the nation's refining, pipeline and terminal infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. the threat of terrorist attacks has subjected our operations to increased risks. any future terrorist attacks on our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. similarly, any future terrorist attacks that severely disrupt the markets we serve could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. the recent lifting of the u.s. crude oil export ban could adversely affect crack spreads or crude oil price differentials and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. since the 1970s, the u.s. has restricted the ability of producers to export domestic crude oil. in december 2015, u.s. lawmakers passed legislation to lift the crude oil export ban. the lifting of the crude oil export ban may cause the price of domestic crude oil to rise, potentially impacting crack spreads and price differentials between domestic and foreign crude oils. a deterioration of crack spreads or price differentials between domestic and foreign crude oils could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks relating to ownership of our common stock provisions in our corporate governance documents could operate to delay or prevent a change in control of our company, dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our capital stock or affect its liquidity. the existence of some provisions within our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us that a stockholder may consider favorable. these include provisions: providing that our board of directors fixes the number of members of the board; providing for the division of our board of directors into three classes with staggered terms; providing that only our board of directors may fill board vacancies; limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring stockholder action to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; establishing supermajority vote requirements for certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and stockholder proposals for amendments to our amended and restated bylaws; providing that our directors may only be removed for cause; 38 table of contents authorizing a large number of shares of common stock that are not yet issued, which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of our management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us; and authorizing the issuance of blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt. we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors time to assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. however, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition. our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. the terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. for example, we could grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our board of directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock. finally, to facilitate compliance with the maritime laws, our restated certificate of incorporation limits the aggregate percentage ownership by non-u.s. citizens of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock to 23 percent of the outstanding shares. we may prohibit transfers that would cause ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock by non-u.s. citizens to exceed 23 percent. our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to effect any and all measures necessary or desirable to monitor and limit foreign ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock. these limitations could have an adverse impact on the liquidity of the market for our common stock if holders are unable to transfer shares to non-u.s. citizens due to the limitations on ownership by non-u.s. citizens. any such limitation on the liquidity of the market for our common stock could adversely impact the market price of our common stock. 39 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 79 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, includes forward-looking statements. you can identify our forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, believe, potential, estimate, expect, forecast, goal, intend, plan, predict, project, seek, target, could, may, should, will, would or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. in accordance with safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to, or statements that are subject to risks, contingencies or uncertainties that relate to: future levels of revenues, refining and marketing gross margins, operating costs, retail gasoline and distillate gross margins, merchandise margins, income from operations, net income or earnings per share; anticipated volumes of feedstock, throughput, sales or shipments of refined products; anticipated levels of regional, national and worldwide prices of crude oil, natural gas, ngls and refined products; anticipated levels of crude oil and refined product inventories; future levels of capital, environmental or maintenance expenditures, general and administrative and other expenses; the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital or maintenance projects; business strategies, growth opportunities and expected investments, including planned equity investments in pipeline projects; expectations regarding the acquisition or divestiture of assets; our share repurchase authorizations, including the timing and amounts of any common stock repurchases; the adequacy of our capital resources and liquidity, including but not limited to, availability of sufficient cash flow to execute our business plan; the effect of restructuring or reorganization of business components; the potential effects of judicial or other proceedings on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; and the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, or federal, foreign, state or local regulatory authorities or plaintiffs in litigation. we have based our forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and our company. we caution that these statements are not guarantees of future performance, and you should not rely unduly on them, as they involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we cannot predict. in addition, we have based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. while our management considers these assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. accordingly, our actual results may differ materially from the future performance that we have expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements. differences between actual results and any future performance suggested in our forward-looking statements could result from a variety of factors, including the following: volatility or degradation in general economic, market, industry or business conditions; the effects of lifting the u.s. crude oil export ban; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of natural gas, ngls and crude oil and other feedstocks; the ability of the members of the opec to agree on and to influence crude oil price and production controls; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of refined products such as gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, home heating oil and petrochemicals; foreign imports and exports of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and ngls; refining industry overcapacity or under capacity; changes in producer customers' drilling plans or in volumes of throughput of crude oil, natural gas, ngls, refined products or other hydrocarbon-based products; 2 table of contents changes in the cost or availability of third-party vessels, pipelines, railcars and other means of transportation for crude oil, natural gas, ngls, feedstocks and refined products; changes to the expected construction costs and timing of pipeline projects; the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels and alternative-fuel vehicles and laws mandating such fuels or vehicles; fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products, natural gas and ngls, including seasonal fluctuations; political and economic conditions in nations that consume refined products, natural gas and ngls, including the united states, and in crude oil producing regions, including the middle east, africa, canada and south america; actions taken by our competitors, including pricing adjustments, expansion of retail activities, the expansion and retirement of refining capacity and the expansion and retirement of pipeline capacity, processing, fractionation and treating facilities in response to market conditions; completion of pipeline projects within the u.s.; changes in fuel and utility costs for our facilities; failure to realize the benefits projected for capital projects, or cost overruns associated with such projects; modifications to mplx lp earnings and distribution growth objectives; the ability to successfully implement growth opportunities; the risk that the synergies from the markwest merger (defined below) may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; risks and uncertainties associated with intangible assets, including any future goodwill or intangible assets impairment charges; the ability to realize the strategic benefits of joint venture opportunities; accidents or other unscheduled shutdowns affecting our refineries, machinery, pipelines, processing, fractionation and treating facilities or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers; unusual weather conditions and natural disasters, which can unforeseeably affect the price or availability of crude oil and other feedstocks and refined products; acts of war, terrorism or civil unrest that could impair our ability to produce refined products, receive feedstocks or to gather, process, fractionate or transport crude oil, natural gas, ngls or refined products; state and federal environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, including the cost of compliance with the renewable fuel standard program; rulings, judgments or settlements and related expenses in litigation or other legal, tax or regulatory matters, including unexpected environmental remediation costs, in excess of any reserves or insurance coverage; political pressure and influence of environmental groups upon policies and decisions related to the production, gathering, refining, processing, fractionation, transportation and marketing of crude oil or other feedstocks, refined products, natural gas, ngls or other hydrocarbon-based products; labor and material shortages; the maintenance of satisfactory relationships with labor unions and joint venture partners; the ability and willingness of parties with whom we have material relationships to perform their obligations to us; the market price of our common stock and its impact on our share repurchase authorizations; changes in the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and trade credit, changes in the availability of unsecured credit and changes affecting the credit markets generally; capital market conditions and our ability to raise adequate capital to execute our business plan; and the other factors described in item 1a. risk factors. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements except to the extent required by applicable law. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business overview marathon petroleum corporation ( mpc ) has 128 years of experience in the energy business with roots tracing back to the formation of the ohio oil company in 1887. we are one of the largest independent petroleum product refining, marketing, retail and transportation businesses in the united states and the largest east of the mississippi. with the merger of mplx lp ( mplx ), the midstream master limited partnership sponsored by mpc, and markwest energy partners, l.p. ( markwest ) effective december 4, 2015 (the markwest merger ), we believe we are one of the largest natural gas processors in the united states and the largest processor and fractionator in the marcellus and utica shale regions. our operations consist of three reportable operating segments: refining &amp; marketing; speedway; and midstream . each of these segments is organized and managed based upon the nature of the products and services it offers. refining &amp; marketing refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our seven refineries in the gulf coast and midwest regions of the united states, purchases refined products and ethanol for resale and distributes refined products through various means, including barges, terminals and trucks that we own or operate. we sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, buyers on the spot market, our speedway business segment and to independent entrepreneurs who operate marathon retail outlets. speedway sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market in the midwest, east coast and southeast. midstream includes the operations of mplx and certain other related operations. following the markwest merger, we changed the name of this segment from pipeline transportation to midstream to reflect its expanded business activities. there were no changes to the historical financial information reported for this segment. the midstream segment gathers, processes and transports natural gas; gathers, transports, fractionates, stores and markets natural gas liquids and transports and stores crude oil and refined products. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk. capital resources our liquidity totaled $4.3 billion at december 31, 2015 consisting of: december 31, 2015 (in millions) total capacity outstanding borrowings available capacity bank revolving credit facility (a) $ 2,500 $ $ 2,500 trade receivables securitization facility (b) 668 668 total $ 3,168 $ $ 3,168 cash and cash equivalents 1,127 total liquidity $ 4,295 (a) excludes mplx's $2 billion bank revolving credit facility, which had $877 million of borrowings and $8 million of letters of credit outstanding as of december 31, 2015 . (b) availability under our $1.0 billion trade receivables securitization facility is a function of refined product selling prices, which will be lower in a sustained lower price environment. as of january 31, 2016, eligible trade receivables supported borrowings of $507 million . because of the alternatives available to us, including internally generated cash flow and access to capital markets, including a commercial paper program, we believe that our short-term and long-term liquidity is adequate to fund not only our current operations, but also our near-term and long-term funding requirements, including capital spending programs, the repurchase of shares of our common stock, dividend payments, defined benefit plan contributions, repayment of debt maturities and other amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies. mpc bank revolving credit facility we have a $2.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility ( revolving credit facility ) in place with a maturity date of september 14, 2017. our revolving credit facility includes letter of credit issuing capacity of up to $2.0 billion and swingline loan capacity of up to $100 million . we may increase our borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility by up to an additional $500 million , subject to certain conditions including the consent of the lenders whose commitments would be increased. in addition, the maturity date may be extended for up to two additional one -year periods subject to the approval of lenders holding greater than 50 percent of the commitments then outstanding, provided that the commitments of any non-consenting lenders will terminate on the then-effective maturity date. 66 table of contents borrowings under our revolving credit facility bear interest, at our election, at either the adjusted libo rate (as defined in our revolving credit facility) plus a margin or the alternate base rate (as defined in our revolving credit facility) plus a margin. we are charged various fees and expenses in connection with our revolving credit facility, including administrative agent fees, commitment fees on the unused portion of our borrowing capacity and fees related to issued and outstanding letters of credit. the applicable margin to the benchmark interest rates and margin to the benchmark commitment fees payable under our revolving credit facility fluctuate from time-to-time based on the credit ratings. there were no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding at december 31, 2015 . trade receivables securitization facility on december 18, 2013, we entered into a three -year, $1.3 billion trade receivables securitization facility ( trade receivables facility ), with a group of financial institutions that act as committed purchasers, conduit purchasers, letter of credit issuers and managing agents under the trade receivables facility. the trade receivables facility is evidenced by a receivables purchase agreement and a second amended and restated receivables sale agreement. in october 2015, we reduced the maximum capacity under the trade receivables facility from $1.3 billion to $1.0 billion . the trade receivables facility consists of one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, marathon petroleum company lp ( mpc lp ), selling or contributing on an on-going basis all of its trade receivables (including trade receivables acquired from marathon petroleum trading canada llc, a wholly-owned subsidiary of mpc lp), together with all related security and interests in the proceeds thereof, without recourse, to another wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote special purpose subsidiary, mpc trade receivables company llc ( trc ), in exchange for a combination of cash, equity or a subordinated note issued by trc to mpc lp. trc, in turn, has the ability to finance its purchase of the receivables from mpc lp by selling undivided ownership interests in qualifying trade receivables, together with all related security and interests in the proceeds thereof, without recourse, to the purchasing group in exchange for cash proceeds. the trade receivables facility also provides for the issuance of letters of credit up to $1.0 billion , provided that the aggregate credit exposure of the purchasing group, including outstanding letters of credit, may not exceed the lessor of $1.0 billion or the balance of our eligible trade receivables at any one time. to the extent that trc retains an ownership interest in the receivables it has purchased or received from mpc lp, such interest will be included in our consolidated financial statements solely as a result of the consolidation of the financial statements of trc with those of mpc. the receivables sold or contributed to trc are available first and foremost to satisfy claims of the creditors of trc and are not available to satisfy the claims of creditors of mpc. trc has granted a security interest in all of its assets to the purchasing group to secure its obligations under the receivables purchase agreement. proceeds from the sale of undivided percentage ownership interests in qualifying receivables under the trade receivables facility will be reflected as debt on our consolidated balance sheet. we will remain responsible for servicing the receivables sold to the purchasing group. trc pays floating-rate interest charges and usage fees on amounts outstanding under the trade receivables facility, if any, and certain other fees related to the administration of the facility and letters of credit that are issued and outstanding under the trade receivables facility. as of december 31, 2015 , eligible trade receivables supported borrowings of $668 million . there were no borrowings outstanding at december 31, 2015 . availability under our trade receivables securitization facility is a function of refined product selling prices, which will be lower in a sustained lower price environment. mplx credit agreement mplx is party to a credit agreement, dated as of november 20, 2014, and amended as of october 27, 2015 ( mplx credit agreement ), providing for a $2 billion bank revolving credit facility with a maturity date of december 4, 2020 and an outstanding $250 million term loan facility with a maturity date of november 20, 2019 . the mplx credit agreement includes letter of credit issuing capacity of up to $250 million and swingline loan capacity of up to $100 million . the revolving borrowing capacity under the mplx credit agreement may be increased by up to an additional $500 million , subject to certain conditions, including the consent of the lenders whose commitments would increase. in addition, the maturity date of the bank revolving credit facility may be extended from time-to-time during its term to a date that is one year after the then-effective date, subject to the approval of lenders holding the majority of the loans and commitments then outstanding, provided that the commitments of any non-consenting lenders will be terminated on the then-effective maturity date. the term loan facility was drawn in full on november 20, 2014. the maturity date for the term loan facility may be extended for up to two additional one -year periods subject to the consent of the lenders holding a majority of the outstanding term loan borrowings, provided that the portion of the term loan borrowings held by any non-consenting lenders will continue to be due and payable on the original then-effective date. the borrowings under this facility during 2015 were at an average interest rate of 1.7 percent . 67 table of contents borrowings under the mplx credit agreement bear interest, at our election, at either the adjusted libo rate or the alternate base rate (as defined in the mplx credit agreement) plus a specified margin. mplx is charged various fees and expenses in connection with the agreement, including administrative agent fees, commitment fees on the unused portion of the borrowing capacity and fees with respect to issued and outstanding letters of credit. the applicable margin to the benchmark interest rates and the commitment fees payable under the mplx credit agreement fluctuate from time-to-time based on mplx's credit ratings. during 2015 , mplx borrowed $992 million under the bank revolving credit facility, at an average interest rate of 1.6 percent , per annum, and repaid $500 million of these borrowings. at december 31, 2015 , mplx had $877 million of borrowings and $8.0 million of letters of credit outstanding under the bank revolving credit facility, resulting in total unused loan availability of $1.1 billion . we may also utilize a commercial paper program in the future to provide funding for short-term working capital needs. commercial paper maturities are generally limited to 90 days. as of december 31, 2015 , we have no borrowings under a commercial paper program. debt-to-total-capital ratio as described in further detail below, the increase in debt as of year-end 2015 compared to year-end 2014 was primarily related to debt assumed by mplx as part of the markwest merger and increased mpc borrowings. equity also increased primarily due to the issuance of mplx units with the markwest merger. our debt-to-total capital ratio (total debt to total debt-plus-equity) was 38 percent and 37 percent at december 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. december 31, (in millions) 2015 2014 long-term debt due within one year $ 29 $ 27 long-term debt 11,896 6,575 total debt $ 11,925 $ 6,602 calculation of debt-to-total capital ratio: total debt $ 11,925 $ 6,602 plus equity 19,675 11,390 total debt plus equity $ 31,600 $ 17,992 debt-to-total capital ratio 38 % 37 % equity - on december 4, 2015, mplx merged with markwest, whereby markwest became a wholly-owned subsidiary of mplx. each common unit of markwest issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the markwest merger was converted into a right to receive 1.09 common units of mplx representing limited partner interests in mplx, plus a one-time cash payment of $6.20 per unit. each class b unit of markwest outstanding immediately prior to the merger was converted into the right to receive one class b unit of mplx having substantially similar rights, including conversion and registration rights, and obligations that the class b units of markwest had immediately prior to the merger. the total fair value of the equity consideration issued by mplx resulted in a $7.3 billion increase to total equity based on the mplx closing price of $32.62 per unit as of december 3, 2015. of this amount, $5.8 billion was reflected as noncontrolling interest for the portion of mplx owned by the public and the remaining $1.5 billion was reflected as mpc equity on our balance sheet. mpc senior notes on december 14, 2015, we completed a public offering of $1.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes ( mpc senior notes ), consisting of $600 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes due 2018, $650 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes due 2020 and $250 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes due 2045. the net proceeds from the offering of the mpc senior notes were $1.49 billion , after deducting underwriting discounts and estimated offering expenses. we used approximately $763 million of the net proceeds from this offering to fund the extinguishment of our obligation for the $750 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.500% senior notes due 2016. as a result of the retirement of our 2016 senior notes, we recorded a loss on extinguishment of debt of $5 million . we intend to use the remaining net proceeds for general corporate purposes, which may include investments in and advances to our affiliates and subsidiaries, including mplx. interest on each series of mpc senior notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on june 15 and december 15, commencing on june 15, 2016. the senior notes are unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of ours and rank equally with all our other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. 68 table of contents mplx and markwest senior notes in connection with the markwest merger, mplx assumed markwest's outstanding debt, which included $4.1 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes. on december 22, 2015, approximately $4.04 billion aggregate principal amount of markwest's outstanding senior notes were exchanged for an aggregate principal amount of approximately $4.04 billion of new unsecured senior notes issued by mplx in an exchange offer and consent solicitation undertaken by mplx and markwest. the new mplx senior notes consist of approximately $710 million aggregate principal amount of 5.500% senior notes due february 15, 2023, approximately $989 million aggregate principal amount of 4.500% senior notes due july 15, 2023, approximately $1.15 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.875% senior notes due december 1, 2024 and approximately $1.19 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.875% senior notes due june 1, 2025. interest on each series of new mplx senior notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on february 15 th and august 15 th of each year with respect to the 5.500% 2023 senior notes, on january 15 th and july 15 th of each year with respect to the 4.500% 2023 senior notes and on june 1 st and december 1 st of each year with respect to the 4.875% 2024 senior notes and the 4.875% 2025 senior notes. after giving effect to the exchange offer and consent solicitation referred to above, as of december 31, 2015, markwest had outstanding approximately $40 million aggregate principal amount of 5.500% senior notes due february 15, 2023, approximately $11 million aggregate principal amount of 4.500% senior notes due july 15, 2023, approximately $1 million aggregate principal amount of 4.875% senior notes due december 1, 2024 and approximately $11 million aggregate principal amount of 4.875% senior notes due june 1, 2024. interest on each series of the markwest senior notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on february 15 th and august 15 th of each year with respect to the 5.500% 2023 senior notes, on january 15 th and july 15 th of each year with respect to the 4.500% 2023 senior notes and on june 1 st and december 1 st of each year with respect to the 4.875% 2024 senior notes and the 4.875% 2025 senior notes. on february 12, 2015, mplx completed a public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of four percent unsecured senior notes due february 15, 2025 . the net proceeds, which were approximately $495 million after deducting underwriting discounts, were used to repay the amounts outstanding under the mplx bank revolving credit facility, as well as for general partnership purposes. interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on february 15 th and august 15 th of each year. the term loan agreement, the mpc bank revolving credit facility and the mplx credit agreement contain representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and events of default that we consider usual and customary for agreements of these types. the financial covenant included in the term loan agreement and the mpc bank revolving credit facility requires us to maintain, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, a ratio of consolidated net debt to total capitalization (as defined in the term loan agreement and the mpc bank revolving credit facility) of no greater than 0.65 to 1.00. as of december 31, 2015 , we were in compliance with this debt covenant with a ratio of consolidated net debt to total capitalization of 0.33 to 1.00, as well as the other covenants contained in the term loan agreement and the mpc bank revolving credit facility. the mplx credit agreement includes certain representations and warranties, affirmative and restrictive covenants and events of default that we consider to be usual and customary for an agreement of this type. the mplx credit agreement includes a financial covenant that requires mplx to maintain a ratio of consolidated total debt as of the end of each fiscal quarter to consolidated ebitda (both as defined in the mplx credit agreement) for the prior four fiscal quarters of no greater than 5.0 to 1.0 (or 5.5 to 1.0 for up to two fiscal quarters following certain acquisitions). consolidated ebitda is subject to adjustments for certain acquisitions completed and capital projects undertaken during the relevant period. other covenants restrict mplx and certain of its subsidiaries from incurring debt, creating liens on its assets and entering into transactions with affiliates. as of december 31, 2015 , mplx was in compliance with the covenants contained in the mplx credit agreement, including a ratio of consolidated total debt to consolidated ebitda of 4.6 to 1.0. our intention is to maintain an investment grade credit profile. as of december 31, 2015, the credit ratings on our and mplx's senior unsecured debt were at or above investment grade level as follows. company rating agency rating mpc moody's baa2 (stable outlook) standard &amp; poor's bbb (stable outlook) fitch bbb (stable outlook) mplx moody's baa3 (stable outlook) standard &amp; poor's bbb- (stable outlook) fitch bbb- (stable outlook) the ratings reflect the respective views of the rating agencies. although it is our intention to maintain a credit profile that supports an investment grade rating, there is no assurance that these ratings will continue for any given period of time. the ratings may be revised or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies if, in their respective judgments, circumstances so warrant. 69 table of contents neither the revolving credit facility, the mplx credit agreement nor our trade receivables securitization facility contains credit rating triggers that would result in the acceleration of interest, principal or other payments in the event that our credit ratings are downgraded. however, any downgrades of our senior unsecured debt to below investment grade ratings would increase the applicable interest rates, yields and other fees payable under the revolving credit facility and our trade receivables securitization facility. in addition, a downgrade of our senior unsecured debt rating to below investment grade levels could, under certain circumstances, decrease the amount of trade receivables that are eligible to be sold under our trade receivables securitization facility, impact our ability to purchase crude oil on an unsecured basis and could result in us having to post letters of credit under existing transportation services agreements. capital requirements our board approved a 2016 capital spending and investment plan of $4.2 billion towards the end of 2015. in light of current market conditions and revisions to expected completion dates for certain projects, we expect 2016 capital spending and investments to be $3.0 billion , excluding capitalized interest. additional details related to expected 2016 capital spending and investments are discussed in the capital budget outlook section below. pursuant to the purchase and sale agreement for the galveston bay refinery and related assets, we may be required to pay the seller a contingent earnout of up to $700 million over six years, subject to certain conditions. in june 2015, we paid bp $189 million for the second period's contingent earnout and have paid bp $369 million to-date for the first two year's contingent earnout. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. variable interest entities we evaluate all legal entities in which we hold an ownership or other pecuniary interest to determine if the entity is a vie. our interests in a vie are referred to as variable interests. variable interests can be contractual, ownership or other pecuniary interests in an entity that change with changes in the fair value of the vie's assets. when we conclude that we hold an interest in a vie we must determine if we are the entity's primary beneficiary. a primary beneficiary is deemed to have a controlling financial interest in a vie. this controlling financial interest is evidenced by both (a) the power to direct the activities of the vie that most significantly impact the vie's economic performance and (b) the obligation to absorb losses that could potentially be significant to the vie or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the vie. we consolidate any vie when we determine that we are the primary beneficiary. we must disclose the nature of any interests in a vie that is not consolidated. significant judgment is exercised in determining that a legal entity is a vie and in evaluating our interest in a vie. we use primarily a qualitative analysis to determine if an entity is a vie. we evaluate the entity's need for continuing financial support; the equity holder's lack of a controlling financial interest; and/or if an equity holder's voting interests are disproportionate to its obligation to absorb expected losses or receive residual returns. we evaluate our interests in a vie to determine whether we are the primary beneficiary. we use a primarily qualitative analysis to determine if we are deemed to have a controlling financial interest in the vie, either on a standalone basis or as part of a related party group. we continually monitor our interests in legal entities for changes in the design or activities of an entity and changes in our interests, including our status as the primary beneficiary to determine if the changes require us to revise our previous conclusions. markwest utica emg, a natural gas and ngl processing joint venture, is a vie; however, we are not considered to be the primary beneficiary. as a result, it is accounted for under the equity method. changes in the design or nature of the activities of this entity, or our involvement with the entity, may require us to reconsider our conclusions on the entity's status as a vie and/or our status as the primary beneficiary. such reconsideration requires significant judgment and understanding of the organization. this could result in the consolidation of the entity which would have a significant impact on our financial statements. ohio gathering is a subsidiary of markwest utica emg and is a vie. if we were to consolidate markwest utica emg, ohio gathering would need to be assessed for consolidation or deconsolidation. variable interest entities are discussed in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk general we are exposed to market risks related to the volatility of crude oil and refined product prices. we employ various strategies, including the use of commodity derivative instruments, to hedge the risks related to these price fluctuations. we are also exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. as of december 31, 2015 , we did not have any financial derivative instruments to hedge the risks related to interest rate fluctuations; however, we have used them in the past, and we continually monitor the market and our exposure and may enter into these agreements again in the future. we are at risk for changes in fair value of all of our derivative instruments; however, such risk should be mitigated by price or rate changes related to the underlying commodity or financial transaction. we believe that our use of derivative instruments, along with our risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose us to material adverse consequences. while the use of derivative instruments could materially affect our results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods, we believe that the use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity. seerisk factors 29 risk factors, item 3. legal proceedings, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, includes forward-looking statements. you can identify our forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, believe, design, estimate, objective, expect, forecast, outlook, goal, guidance, imply, intend, plan, predict, prospective, project, opportunity, potential, position, pursue, strategy, seek, target, could, may, should, would, will or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. in accordance with safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to, or statements that are subject to risks, contingencies or uncertainties that relate to: future levels of revenues, refining and marketing gross margins, operating costs, retail gasoline and distillate gross margins, merchandise margins, income from operations, net income or earnings per share; anticipated volumes of feedstock, throughput, sales or shipments of refined products; anticipated levels of regional, national and worldwide prices of crude oil, natural gas, ngls and refined products; anticipated levels of crude oil and refined product inventories; future levels of capital, environmental or maintenance expenditures, general and administrative and other expenses; the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital or maintenance projects; business strategies, growth opportunities and expected investments, including strategic initiatives and actions, as well as planned equity investments in pipeline projects; expectations regarding the acquisition or divestiture of assets as well as the strategic initiatives discussed herein, such as the proposed accelerated dropdown of assets to mplx lp and plans to exchange our economic interest in the general partner, including idrs, for newly issued mplx lp common units; our share repurchase authorizations, including the timing and amounts of any common stock repurchases; the adequacy of our capital resources and liquidity, including but not limited to, availability of sufficient cash flow to execute our business plan; the effect of restructuring or reorganization of business components; the potential effects of judicial or other proceedings on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; and the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, activist investors or federal, foreign, state or local regulatory authorities or plaintiffs in litigation. we have based our forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and our company. we caution that these statements are not guarantees of future performance, and you should not rely unduly on them, as they involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we cannot predict. in addition, we have based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. while our management considers these assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. accordingly, our actual results may differ materially from the future performance that we have expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements. differences between actual results and any future performance suggested in our forward-looking statements could result from a variety of factors, including the following: volatility or degradation in general economic, market, industry or business conditions; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of natural gas, ngls and crude oil and other feedstocks; the ability of the members of the opec to agree on and to influence crude oil price and production controls; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of refined products such as gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, home heating oil and petrochemicals; foreign imports and exports of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and ngls; refining industry overcapacity or under capacity; changes in producer customers' drilling plans or in volumes of throughput of crude oil, natural gas, ngls, refined products or other hydrocarbon-based products; 2 table of contents changes in the cost or availability of third-party vessels, pipelines, railcars and other means of transportation for crude oil, natural gas, ngls, feedstocks and refined products; changes to the expected construction costs and timing of projects; the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels and alternative-fuel vehicles and laws mandating such fuels or vehicles; fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products, natural gas and ngls, including seasonal fluctuations; political and economic conditions in nations that consume refined products, natural gas and ngls, including the united states, and in crude oil producing regions, including the middle east, africa, canada and south america; actions taken by our competitors, including pricing adjustments, expansion of retail activities, the expansion and retirement of refining capacity and the expansion and retirement of pipeline capacity, processing, fractionation and treating facilities in response to market conditions; completion of pipeline projects within the united states; changes in fuel and utility costs for our facilities; failure to realize the benefits projected for capital projects, or cost overruns associated with such projects; modifications to mplx lp earnings and distribution growth objectives; the ability to successfully implement growth opportunities, including strategic initiatives and actions; the time, costs and ability to obtain regulatory or other approvals, waivers or consents required to consummate strategic actions discussed herein, such as the proposed accelerated dropdown of assets to mplx lp; the risk that the synergies from the markwest merger (defined below) may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; risks and uncertainties associated with intangible assets, including any future goodwill or intangible assets impairment charges; the ability to realize the strategic benefits of joint venture opportunities; accidents or other unscheduled shutdowns affecting our refineries, machinery, pipelines, processing, fractionation and treating facilities or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers; unusual weather conditions and natural disasters, which can unforeseeably affect the price or availability of crude oil and other feedstocks and refined products; acts of war, terrorism or civil unrest that could impair our ability to produce refined products, receive feedstocks or to gather, process, fractionate or transport crude oil, natural gas, ngls or refined products; state and federal environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, including the cost of compliance with the renewable fuel standard program; adverse changes in laws including with respect to tax and regulatory matters; rulings, judgments or settlements and related expenses in litigation or other legal, tax or regulatory matters, including unexpected environmental remediation costs, in excess of any reserves or insurance coverage; political pressure and influence of environmental groups upon policies and decisions related to the production, gathering, refining, processing, fractionation, transportation and marketing of crude oil or other feedstocks, refined products, natural gas, ngls or other hydrocarbon-based products; labor and material shortages; the maintenance of satisfactory relationships with labor unions and joint venture partners; the ability and willingness of parties with whom we have material relationships to perform their obligations to us; the market price of our common stock and its impact on our share repurchase authorizations; changes in the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and trade credit, changes in the availability of unsecured credit and changes affecting the credit markets generally; capital market conditions and our ability to raise adequate capital to execute our business plan, including our recently announced strategic actions; the costs, disruption and diversion of management's attention associated with campaigns commenced by activist investors; and the other factors described in item 1a. risk factors. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements except to the extent required by applicable law. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business overview marathon petroleum corporation ( mpc ) has 129 years of experience in the energy business with roots tracing back to the formation of the ohio oil company in 1887. we are one of the largest independent petroleum product refining, marketing, retail and transportation businesses in the united states and the largest east of the mississippi. with the merger of mplx lp ( mplx ), the midstream master limited partnership sponsored by mpc, and markwest energy partners, l.p. ( markwest ) effective december 4, 2015 (the markwest merger ), we are one of the largest natural gas processors in the united states and the largest processor and fractionator in the marcellus and utica shale regions. our operations consist of three reportable operating segments: refining &amp; marketing; speedway; and midstream . each of these segments is organized and managed based upon the nature of the products and services it offers. refining &amp; marketing refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our seven refineries in the gulf coast and midwest regions of the united states, purchases refined products and ethanol for resale and distributes refined products through various means, including terminals and trucks that we own or operate. we sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, buyers on the spot market, our speedway business segment and to independent entrepreneurs who operate marathon retail outlets. speedway sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market in the midwest, east coast and southeast regions of the united states. midstream includes the operations of mplx and certain other related operations. the midstream segment gathers, processes and transports natural gas; gathers, transports, fractionates, stores and markets ngls and transports and stores crude oil and refined products. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 10 for operating segment and geographic financial information, which is incorporated herein by reference. corporate history and structure mpc was incorporated in delaware on november 9, 2009 in connection with an internal restructuring of marathon oil corporation ( marathon oil ). on may 25, 2011, the marathon oil board of directors approved the spinoff of its refining, marketing &amp; transportation business ( rm&amp;t business ) into an independent, publicly traded company, mpc, through the distribution of mpc common stock to the stockholders of marathon oil common stock on june 30, 2011 (the spinoff ). following the spinoff, marathon oil retained no ownership interest in mpc, and each company has separate public ownership, boards of directors and management. all subsidiaries and equity method investments not contributed by marathon oil to mpc remained with marathon oil and, together with marathon oil, are referred to as the marathon oil companies. on july 1, 2011, our common stock began trading regular-way on the nyse under the ticker symbol mpc. recent developments strategic actions to enhance shareholder value on january 3, 2017, we announced plans to significantly accelerate the dropdown of assets with an estimated $1.4 billion of mlp-eligible annual ebitda to mplx now expected to be completed in 2017, subject to requisite approvals and regulatory clearances, including tax clearance, and market and other conditions. in conjunction with the completion of the dropdowns, we also expect to exchange our economic interests in the general partner of mplx, including incentive distribution rights, for newly issued mplx common units. additionally, a special committee of our board of directors, with the assistance of an independent financial advisor, will conduct a full and thorough review of speedway to ensure optimum value is being delivered to shareholders over the long term. we expect to provide an update on the review by mid-2017. this significant acceleration of dropdowns and other announced strategic actions are designed to further highlight the substantial value embedded in our integrated businesses. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional information on our strategic actions to enhance shareholder value. 4 table of contents acquisitions and investments pipeline investments on september 1, 2016, enbridge energy partners l.p. ( enbridge energy partners ) announced that its affiliate, north dakota pipeline llc ( north dakota pipeline ), would withdraw certain pending regulatory applications for its sandpiper pipeline project and that the project would be deferred indefinitely. these decisions were considered to indicate an impairment of the costs capitalized to date on the project. as the operator of north dakota pipeline and the entity responsible for maintaining its financial records, enbridge energy partners completed a fixed asset impairment analysis as of august 31, 2016, in accordance with asc topic 360. based on the estimated liquidation value of the fixed assets, an impairment charge was recorded by north dakota pipeline. based on our 37.5 percent ownership of north dakota pipeline, we recognized approximately $267 million of this charge in the third quarter of 2016 through income (loss) from equity method investments on the accompanying consolidated statements of income which impaired virtually all of our $301 million investment in the project. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 17 for information regarding the charge. on february 15, 2017, mplx closed on the previously announced transaction to acquire a partial, indirect equity interest in the dakota access pipeline ( dapl ) and energy transfer crude oil company pipeline ( etcop ) projects, collectively referred to as the bakken pipeline system, through a joint venture with enbridge energy partners. mplx contributed $500 million of the $2 billion purchase price paid by the joint venture to acquire a 36.75 percent indirect equity interest in the bakken pipeline system from energy transfer partners, l.p. ( etp ) and sunoco logistics partners, l.p. ( sxl ). mplx holds, through a subsidiary, a 25 percent interest in the joint venture, which equates to an approximate 9.2 percent indirect equity interest in the bakken pipeline system. the bakken pipeline system is currently expected to deliver in excess of 470 mbpd of crude oil from the bakken/three forks production area in north dakota to the midwest through patoka, illinois and ultimately to the gulf coast. furthermore, mpc expects to become a committed shipper on the bakken pipeline system under terms of an on-going open season. in connection with closing the transaction with etp and sxl, enbridge energy partners canceled mpc's transportation services agreement with respect to the sandpiper pipeline project and released mpc from paying any termination fee per that agreement. in july 2014, we exercised our option to acquire a 35 percent ownership interest in enbridge inc.'s southern access extension ( sax ) pipeline which runs from flanagan, illinois to patoka, illinois. this option resulted from our agreement to be the anchor shipper on the sax pipeline. we have contributed $299 million since project inception. the pipeline became operational in december 2015. our investment in the pipeline is included in our midstream segment. marine investments we currently have indirect ownership interests in two ocean vessel joint ventures with crowley maritime corporation ( crowley ), which were established to own and operate jones act vessels in petroleum product service. we have invested a total of $189 million in these two ventures as described further below. in september 2015, we acquired a 50 percent ownership interest in a joint venture, crowley ocean partners llc ( crowley ocean partners ), with crowley. the joint venture owns and operates four new jones act product tankers, three of which are leased to mpc. two of the vessels were delivered in 2015 and the remaining two were delivered in 2016. we contributed a total of $141 million for the four vessels. in may 2016, mpc and crowley formed a new ocean vessel joint venture, crowley coastal partners llc ( crowley coastal partners ), in which mpc has a 50 percent ownership interest. mpc and crowley each contributed their 50 percent ownership in crowley ocean partners, discussed above, into crowley coastal partners. in addition, we contributed $48 million in cash and crowley contributed its 100 percent ownership interest in crowley blue water partners llc ( crowley blue water partners ) to crowley coastal partners. crowley blue water partners is an entity that owns and operates three 750 series atb vessels that are leased to mpc. we account for our 50 percent interest in crowley coastal partners as part of our midstream segment using the equity method of accounting. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 6 for additional information on crowley coastal partners as a vie and note 25 for information on our conditional guarantee of the indebtedness of crowley ocean partners and crowley blue water partners. 5 table of contents markwest merger on december 4, 2015, a wholly-owned subsidiary of mplx, the midstream master limited partnership sponsored by mpc, merged with markwest, whereby markwest became a wholly-owned subsidiary of mplx. each common unit of markwest issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the markwest merger was converted into a right to receive 1.09 common units of mplx representing limited partner interests in mplx, plus a one-time cash payment of $6.20 per unit. each class b unit of markwest outstanding immediately prior to the merger was converted into the right to receive one class b unit of mplx having substantially similar rights, including conversion and registration rights, and obligations that the class b units of markwest had immediately prior to the merger. at closing, we contributed $1.23 billion in cash to mplx to pay the cash consideration to markwest common unitholders. we agreed to contribute an additional total of $50 million in cash to mplx for the cash consideration to be paid upon the conversion of the mplx class b units to mplx common units in equal installments, the first $25 million of which was paid in july 2016 and the second $25 million of which will be paid in july 2017. these contributions are with respect to mpc's existing interests in mplx (including idrs) and not in consideration of new units or other equity interest in mplx. we assigned the total consideration transferred of $8.61 billion, including the $7.33 billion fair value of the equity consideration and the $1.28 billion of cash contributions, to the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities and noncontrolling interest assumed in the markwest merger, with the excess recorded as goodwill. during the first quarter of 2016, the preliminary fair value measurements of assets acquired and liabilities assumed recorded in the 2015 year-end financial statements were revised based on additional analysis. these adjustments to the fair values of property, plant and equipment, intangibles and equity investments, among other items, resulted in an offsetting reduction to goodwill of approximately $241 million. as a result, we recognized total assets acquired of $11.91 billion, including $8.52 billion of property plant and equipment and $2.60 billion of equity investments, and total liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests of $5.51 billion, including $4.57 billion of assumed debt. goodwill is not amortized, but rather is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if warranted due to events or changes in circumstances. mplx recorded an impairment charge of approximately $129 million in the first quarter of 2016 to impair a portion of the $2.21 billion of goodwill, as adjusted, recorded in connection with the markwest merger. in the second quarter of 2016, mplx completed its purchase price allocation, which resulted in an additional $1 million of impairment expense that would have been recorded in the first quarter of 2016 had the purchase price allocation been completed as of that date. this adjustment to the impairment expense was the result of completing an evaluation of the deferred tax liabilities associated with the markwest merger and their impact on the resulting goodwill that was recognized. our financial results and operating statistics reflect the results of markwest from the date of the acquisition. consistent with our strategy to grow our midstream business, the markwest merger combines one of the nation's largest processors of natural gas and the largest processor and fractionator in the marcellus and utica shale regions with a rapidly growing crude oil and refined products logistics partnership sponsored by mpc. the complementary aspects of the highly diverse asset base of markwest, mplx and mpc provide significant additional opportunities across multiple segments of the hydrocarbon value chain. the combined entity furthers markwest's leading midstream presence in the marcellus and utica shales by allowing it to pursue additional midstream projects, allowing producer customers to achieve superior value for their growing production in these important shale regions. hess retail acquisition on september 30, 2014, we acquired from hess corporation ( hess ) all of its retail locations, transport operations and shipper history on various pipelines, including approximately 40 mbpd on colonial pipeline, for $2.82 billion . we refer to these assets as hess' retail operations and related assets and substantially all of these assets are part of our speedway segment. this acquisition significantly expanded our speedway presence from nine to 22 states throughout the east coast and southeast and is aligned with our strategy to grow our retail business. this acquisition also enables us to further leverage our integrated refining and transportation operations, providing an assured outlet for incremental sales from our refining system. the transaction was funded with a combination of debt and available cash. our financial results and operating statistics reflect the results of hess' retail operations and related assets from the date of the acquisition. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 5 for additional information on these acquisitions and investments. mplx lp overview mplx is a diversified, growth-oriented publicly traded master limited partnership formed by us to own, operate, develop and acquire midstream energy infrastructure assets. mplx is engaged in the gathering, processing and transportation of natural gas; the gathering, transportation, fractionation, storage and marketing of ngls; and the gathering, transportation and storage of crude oil and refined petroleum products. on december 4, 2015, we completed the markwest merger, whereby markwest became a wholly-owned subsidiary of mplx. 6 table of contents as of december 31, 2016 , we owned a 25.5 percent interest in mplx, including a two percent general partner interest. this ownership percentage reflects the conversion of the mplx class b units in july 2017 at 1.09 to 1.00. mplx is a vie because the limited partners of mplx do not have substantive kick-out or substantive participating rights over the general partner. we are the primary beneficiary of mplx because in addition to significant economic interest, we also have the power, through our 100 percent ownership of the general partner, to control the decisions that most significantly impact mplx. we therefore consolidate mplx and record a noncontrolling interest for the 74.5 percent interest owned by the public. the components of our noncontrolling interest consist of equity-based noncontrolling interest and redeemable noncontrolling interest. the redeemable noncontrolling interest relates to mplx's preferred units, discussed below. the creditors of mplx do not have recourse to mpc's general credit through guarantees or other financial arrangements. the assets of mplx are the property of mplx and cannot be used to satisfy the obligations of mpc. reorganization transactions on september 1, 2016, mpc, mplx and various affiliates initiated a series of reorganization transactions in order to simplify mplx's ownership structure and its financial and tax reporting. in connection with these transactions, mpc contributed $225 million to mplx, and all of the issued and outstanding mplx class a units, all of which were held by markwest hydrocarbon l.l.c. ( markwest hydrocarbon ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of mplx, were exchanged for newly issued common units representing limited partner interests in mplx. the simple average of the closing prices of mplx common units for the last 10 trading days prior to september 1, 2016 was used for purposes of these transactions. as a result of these transactions, mpc increased its ownership interest in mplx by 7 million mplx common units, or approximately 1 percent . private placement of preferred units on may 13, 2016, mplx completed the private placement of approximately 30.8 million 6.5 percent series a convertible preferred units (the mplx preferred units ) at a cash price of $32.50 per unit. the aggregate net proceeds of approximately $984 million from the sale of the mplx preferred units was used for capital expenditures, repayment of debt and general partnership purposes. the mplx preferred units rank senior to all mplx common units with respect to distributions and rights upon liquidation. the holders of the mplx preferred units are entitled to receive quarterly distributions equal to $0.528125 per unit commencing for the quarter ended june 30, 2016, with a prorated amount from the date of issuance. following the second anniversary of the issuance of the mplx preferred units, the holders of the mplx preferred units will receive as a distribution the greater of $0.528125 per unit or the amount of per unit distributions paid to common unitholders. the mplx preferred units are convertible into mplx common units on a one for one basis after three years, at the purchasers' option, and after four years at mplx's option, subject to certain conditions. the mplx preferred units are considered redeemable securities due to the existence of redemption provisions upon a deemed liquidation event which is considered outside mplx's control. therefore they are presented as temporary equity in the mezzanine section of the consolidated balance sheets. we have recorded the mplx preferred units at their issuance date fair value, net of issuance costs. since the mplx preferred units are not currently redeemable and not probable of becoming redeemable in the future, adjustment to the initial carrying amount is not necessary and would only be required if it becomes probable that the security would become redeemable. contribution of inland marine business to mplx on march 31, 2016, we contributed our inland marine business to mplx in exchange for 23 million mplx common units and 460 thousand mplx general partner units. the number of units we received from mplx was determined by dividing $600 million by the volume weighted average nyse price of mplx common units for the 10 trading days preceding march 14, 2016, pursuant to the membership interests contribution agreement. we also agreed to waive first-quarter 2016 common unit distributions, idrs and general partner distributions with respect to the common units issued in this transaction. the contribution of our inland marine business was accounted for as a transaction between entities under common control and therefore, we did not record a gain or loss. public offering on february 10, 2017, mplx completed a public offering of $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.125% unsecured senior notes due march 2027 (the mplx 2027 senior notes ) and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.200% unsecured senior notes due march 2047 (the mplx 2047 senior notes ). mplx intends to use the net proceeds from this offering for general partnership purposes, which may include, from time to time, acquisitions (including the previously announced planned dropdown of assets from mpc) and capital expenditures. 7 table of contents atm program on august 4, 2016, mplx entered into a second amended and restated distribution agreement (the distribution agreement ) providing for the continuous issuance of mplx common units, in amounts, at prices and on terms to be determined by market conditions and other factors at the time of any offerings (such continuous offering program, or at-the-market program, referred to as the atm program ). mplx expects to use the net proceeds from sales under the atm program for general partnership purposes including repayment of debt and funding for acquisitions, working capital requirements and capital expenditures. during 2016 , mplx issued an aggregate of 26 million mplx common units under the atm program, generating net proceeds of approximately $776 million . as of december 31, 2016 , $717 million of mplx common units remains available for issuance through the atm program under the distribution agreement. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 4 for additional information on mplx. our competitive strengths extensive integrated platform of midstream, retail and refining assets we believe the relative scale of our integrated midstream, retail and refining assets distinguishes us from other refining companies. we currently own, lease or have ownership interests in approximately 8,400 miles of crude oil and products pipelines. additionally, we have over 5,600 miles of natural gas and ngl pipelines. we also own or have ownerships interests in one of the largest private domestic fleets of inland petroleum product barges and one of the largest terminal operations in the united states, as well as trucking and rail assets. we operate this transportation and distribution system in coordination with our refining and marketing network enabling us to optimize raw material supplies and refined product distribution, and deliver important economies of scale across our platform. our speedway segment, one of our largest distribution channels, is also our most ratable. we believe our distribution system allows us to maximize the sales value of our products and minimize cost. we also believe our integrated platform of assets gives us extensive flexibility and optionality to respond promptly to dynamic market conditions, including weather-related and marketplace disruptions. competitively positioned marketing operations provide assured product sales we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers within our market area. we have two strong retail brands: speedway and marathon . we believe speedway llc, a wholly-owned subsidiary, operates the second largest chain of company-owned and operated retail gasoline and convenience stores in the united states, with approximately 2,730 convenience stores in 21 states throughout the midwest, east coast and southeast regions of the united states. in addition, our highly successful speedy rewards customer loyalty program, which averaged more than 5.7 million active members in 2016 , provides us with a unique competitive advantage and opportunity to increase our speedway customer base at existing and new speedway locations. the marathon brand is an established motor fuel brand primarily in the midwest and southeast regions of the united states, comprised of approximately 5,500 retail outlets operated by independent entrepreneurs in 19 states as of december 31, 2016 . the marathon brand has been a vehicle for sales volume growth in existing and contiguous markets. we consider assured sales as those sales we make to marathon brand customers, our speedway operations and to our wholesale customers with whom we have required minimum volume sales contracts. our assured sales currently account for approximately 70% of our gasoline production. we believe having assured sales brings ratability to our distribution systems, provides a solid base to enhance our overall supply reliability and allows us to efficiently and effectively optimize our operations between our refineries, pipelines and terminals. high quality network of strategically located assets we believe we are the largest crude oil refiner in the midwest and the third largest in the united states based on crude oil refining capacity. we own a seven -plant refinery network, with approximately 1.8 mmbpcd of crude oil throughput capacity. our refineries process a wide range of crude oils, feedstocks and condensate, including heavy and sour crude oils, which can generally be purchased at a discount to sweet crude oil, and produce transportation fuels such as gasoline and distillates, specialty chemicals and other refined products. while we have historically processed significant quantities of heavy and sour crude oils, our refineries have the ability to process approximately 65 percent to 70 percent light sweet crude oils. 8 table of contents the geographic locations of our refineries provide us with strategic advantages. located in padd ii and padd iii, which consist of states in the midwest and the gulf coast regions of the united states, our refineries have the ability to procure crude oil from a variety of supply sources, including domestic, canadian and other foreign sources, which provides us with flexibility to optimize crude supply costs. for example, geographic proximity to various united states shale oil regions and canadian crude oil supply sources allows our refineries access to price-advantaged crude oils and lower transportation costs than certain of our competitors. our refinery locations and midstream distribution system also allow us to access refined product export markets and to serve a broad range of key end-user markets across the united states quickly and cost-effectively. our midstream segment assets are similarly located in the midwest and gulf coast regions of the united states, which collectively comprised approximately 81 percent of total united states crude distillation capacity and approximately 81 percent of total united states finished products demand for the year ended december 31, 2016 , according to the eia. mplx, through markwest, its wholly-owned subsidiary, is the largest processor and fractionator in the marcellus and utica shale regions. this significantly complements and creates strategic opportunities for our refining &amp; marketing segment and mplx's logistic assets in the same geographic footprint. our integrated midstream energy asset network links producers of natural gas, ngls and crude oil from some of the largest supply basins in the united states to domestic and international markets. our midstream gathering and processing operations include approximately 7,500 mmcf/d of natural gas processing capacity, 500 mbpd of fractionation capacity and more than 5,600 miles of gas gathering and ngl pipelines as of december 31, 2016 . our speedway segment, which operates in the midwest, east coast and southeast, complements our refining and midstream assets providing a significant and ratable outlet for our refinery production. our speedway operations have also enabled us to further leverage our integrated refining and transportation operations with its expansion from nine to 21 states throughout the east coast and southeast. speedway is a top tier performer in the convenience store industry with the highest ebitda per store per month of its public peers and leading positions with respect to other comparisons based on light product volume, merchandise sales and total gross margin on a per store per month basis. * as of december 31, 2016 9 table of contents general partner and sponsor of mplx our investment in mplx provides us an efficient vehicle to invest in organic projects and pursue acquisitions of midstream assets; all with the focus of enhancing our share price through our limited partner and general partner interests in mplx which tend to receive higher market multiples. mplx's liquidity, size, scale and access to the capital markets should provide us a strong foundation to execute our strategy for growing our midstream business. we have an extensive portfolio of mlp-qualifying midstream assets. we plan to offer assets from this portfolio, which are estimated to generate annual ebitda of approximately $1.4 billion, to mplx as soon as practicable in 2017, subject to regulatory clearances, including tax clearance, and market and other conditions. in conjunction with the completion of the dropdowns, we expect to pursue an exchange of our economic interests in the general partner, including incentive distribution rights, for newly issued mplx common units. following the exchange, we would continue to retain control of the general partner so that we can continue to optimize our refinery feedstock and distribution networks. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional information on these midstream assets, including the timing of these strategic actions. established track record of profitability and growing our midstream and retail businesses we have demonstrated an ability to achieve positive financial results throughout all stages of the refining cycle. we believe our business mix and strategies position us well to continue to achieve competitive financial results. income generated by our speedway segment is less sensitive to business cycles. similarly, income from our midstream segment, which was significantly expanded through the markwest merger, is more stable over business cycles due to its long-term fee based contracts, while our refining &amp; marketing segment enables us to generate significant income and cash flow when market conditions are more favorable. strong financial position as of december 31, 2016 , we had $653 million in cash and cash equivalents and $4.18 billion in unused committed borrowing facilities, excluding mplx's cash and cash equivalents of $234 million and its credit facilities. we had $10.57 billion of debt at year-end, which represented 33 percent of our total capitalization. this combination of strong liquidity and manageable leverage provides financial flexibility to fund our growth projects and to pursue our business strategies. our business strategies maintain top-tier safety and environmental performance we remain committed to operating our assets in a safe and reliable manner and targeting continual improvement in our safety record across all of our operations. we have a history of safe and reliable operations, which was demonstrated again in 2016 with a strong process safety performance compared to the industry average. in addition, our corporate headquarters, four of our refineries and eight additional facilities have earned designations as an osha vpp star site. we also remain committed to environmental stewardship by continuing to improve the efficiency and reliability of our operations. we have earned 75 percent of the epa's energy star recognitions awarded to refineries despite owning and operating just 10 percent of total u.s. refining capacity. we proactively address our regulatory requirements and encourage our operations to improve their environmental performance through our dei program, which establishes goals and measures environmental performance. in 2016, we achieved our best performance since the current program began in 2010 with a third straight year of improving performance. markwest will be incorporated into our dei program in 2017. grow higher valued, stable cash flow businesses we intend to continue to allocate significant portions of our capital to investments intended to grow our midstream and retail businesses. these businesses typically have more predictable and stable income and cash flows compared to our refining operations and we believe investors assign a higher value to such businesses. mplx is an important part of this strategy and the markwest merger significantly expanded its midstream activities. mplx will consider organic growth projects that provide attractive returns and cash flows both within its geographic footprint as well as in new regions. mplx may pursue these opportunities as standalone projects, with mpc or with other parties. mplx has identified a number of potential projects over the next several years. these primarily include projects to expand gathering, processing and fractionation infrastructure in the marcellus region. 10 table of contents our speedway segment is also an important part of this strategy. we significantly expanded speedway's presence along the east coast and southeast through the acquisition of hess' retail operations and related assets in september 2014. we intend to continue growing speedway's sales and profitability by focusing on organic growth through filling in voids in our existing markets by building new locations and by rebuilding or remodeling existing stores. we will also look to expand our presence by opportunistically acquiring high quality stores in new and existing markets. we have identified numerous opportunities for new convenience stores or store rebuilds in our existing market, with a continued focus in pennsylvania and tennessee, as well as opportunities for growth in new markets including georgia, south carolina and the florida panhandle. we also plan to capitalize on diesel demand growth by building out our network of commercial fueling lane locations within our core market which cater to local and regional transport fleets. in keeping with our practice of evaluating shareholder value creation, a special committee of our board of directors, with the assistance of an independent financial advisor, will conduct a full and thorough review of strategic and financial alternatives for speedway. we expect to provide an update on the review by mid-2017. maintain long-term integrated relationships with our producer customers mplx's markwest subsidiary has developed long-term integrated relationships with its producer customers. these relationships are characterized by an intense focus on customer service and a deep understanding of producer customers' requirements coupled with the ability to increase the level of our midstream services in response to their midstream requirements. through collaborative planning with these producer customers, mplx's markwest subsidiary continues to construct high-quality midstream infrastructure and provide unique solutions that are critical to the ongoing success of producer customers' development plans. as a result of these efforts, markwest has been a top-rated midstream service provider in customer satisfaction since 2006, as determined by an independent research provider. pursue margin enhancing investments in refining to deliver top quartile refining performance our refineries are well positioned to benefit from the growing crude oil and condensate production in north america, including the bakken, eagle ford and utica shale regions, along with the canadian oil sands. we are also well positioned to export distillates, gasoline and other products. we intend to enhance margins in our refining &amp; marketing segment by realizing benefits from continuous process improvements and targeted investments in our refining operations. over the next five years, we intend to create a world-class refining complex by investing approximately $1.5 billion in our galveston bay refinery through the star project. this investment will fully integrate our galveston bay and texas city refineries and enable us to upgrade low value residual oil into higher value refined products and lower the refinery complex's cost of production. the project scope increases crude processing capacity, increases distillate and gas oil recovery and improves the refinery's overall reliability. we are also planning to expand the galveston bay refinery's product export capacity to reach high value markets. in addition, we are investing at our garyville refinery to increase ulsd production due to strong long-term distillate demand expectations. sustain focus on disciplined capital allocation and shareholder returns we intend to maintain our focus on a disciplined and balanced approach to capital allocation, including return of capital to shareholders, in a manner consistent with maintaining an investment-grade credit profile. since becoming a stand-alone company in june 2011, our dividend has increased by a 28 percent compound annual growth rate and our board of directors has authorized share repurchases totaling $10 billion . through open market purchases and two asr programs, we repurchased 202 million shares of our common stock for approximately $7.44 billion , representing approximately 28 percent of our outstanding common shares when we became a stand-alone company in june 2011. after the effects of these repurchases, $2.56 billion of the $10 billion total authorization was available for future repurchases as of december 31, 2016 . we achieved these shareholder returns while also investing in the business and maintaining an investment-grade credit profile. cash proceeds from the planned dropdowns and ongoing mplx common unit distributions resulting from the dropdowns and other strategic actions are expected to fund the substantial ongoing return of capital to our shareholders in a manner consistent with maintaining an investment-grade credit profile. utilize and enhance our high quality employee workforce we utilize our high quality employee workforce by continuing to leverage our commercial skills. in addition, we continue to enhance our workforce through selective hiring practices and effective training programs on safety, environmental stewardship and other professional and technical skills. 11 table of contents the above discussion contains forward-looking statements with respect to the business and operations of mpc, including our proposed strategic actions to enhance shareholder value, the atm program, our competitive strengths and business strategies, including our expected investments and the adequacy of our capital resources and liquidity. factors that could impact our proposed strategic actions include, but are not limited to, the time, costs and ability to obtain regulatory or other approvals and consents and otherwise consummate the strategic actions discussed herein; the satisfaction or waiver of conditions in the agreements governing the strategic actions discussed herein; our ability to achieve the strategic and other objectives related to the strategic actions discussed herein; the impact of adverse market conditions affecting mpc's and mplx's midstream businesses; adverse changes in laws including with respect to tax and regulatory matters and our inability to agree with the mplx conflicts committee with respect to the timing of and value attributed to assets identified for dropdown. factors that could affect the atm program and the timing of any issuances under the atm program include, but are not limited to, market conditions, availability of liquidity and the market price of mplx's common units. factors that could impact our competitive strengths and business strategies, including the adequacy of our capital resources and liquidity include, but are not limited to, changes to the expected construction costs and timing of projects; continued/further volatility in and/or degradation of market and industry conditions; the availability and pricing of crude oil and other feedstocks; slower growth in domestic and canadian crude supply; completion of pipeline capacity to areas outside the u.s. midwest; consumer demand for refined products; transportation logistics; the reliability of processing units and other equipment; mpc's ability to successfully implement growth opportunities; modifications to mplx earnings and distribution growth objectives; compliance with federal and state environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, including the cost of compliance with the renewable fuel standard, and/or enforcement actions initiated thereunder; changes to mpc's capital budget; other risk factors inherent to mpc's industry. these factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. for additional information on forward-looking statements and risks that can affect our business, see disclosures regarding forward-looking statements and item 1a. risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. refining &amp; marketing refineries we currently own and operate seven refineries in the gulf coast and midwest regions of the united states with an aggregate crude oil refining capacity of 1,817 mbpcd. during 2016 , our refineries processed 1,699 mbpd of crude oil and 151 mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. during 2015 , our refineries processed 1,711 mbpd of crude oil and 177 mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. the table below sets forth the location, crude oil refining capacity, tank storage capacity and number of tanks for each of our refineries as of december 31, 2016 . refinery crude oil refining capacity ( mbpcd ) (a) tank storage capacity ( million barrels ) number of tanks garyville, louisiana 543 16.9 83 galveston bay, texas city, texas 459 16.2 157 catlettsburg, kentucky 273 5.2 120 robinson, illinois 231 6.0 92 detroit, michigan 132 6.7 87 canton, ohio 93 2.9 75 texas city, texas 86 3.9 56 total 1,817 57.8 670 (a) refining throughput can exceed crude oil capacity due to the processing of other charge and blendstocks in addition to crude oil and the timing of planned turnaround and major maintenance activity. our refineries include crude oil atmospheric and vacuum distillation, fluid catalytic cracking, hydrocracking, catalytic reforming, coking, desulfurization and sulfur recovery units. the refineries process a wide variety of condensate, light and heavy crude oils purchased from various domestic and foreign suppliers. we produce numerous refined products, ranging from transportation fuels, such as reformulated gasolines, blend-grade gasolines intended for blending with ethanol and ulsd fuel, to heavy fuel oil and asphalt. additionally, we manufacture aromatics, propane, propylene and sulfur. see the refined product marketing section for further information about the products we produce. 12 table of contents our refineries are integrated with each other via pipelines, terminals and barges to maximize operating efficiency. the transportation links that connect our refineries allow the movement of intermediate products between refineries to optimize operations, produce higher margin products and efficiently utilize our processing capacity. for example, naphtha may be moved from texas city to robinson where excess reforming capacity is available. also, shipping intermediate products between facilities during partial refinery shutdowns allows us to utilize processing capacity that is not directly affected by the shutdown work. garyville, louisiana refinery . our garyville, louisiana refinery is located along the mississippi river in southeastern louisiana between new orleans, louisiana and baton rouge, louisiana. the garyville refinery is configured to process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, fuel-grade coke, asphalt, propane, polymer-grade propylene, heavy fuel oil, dry gas, slurry and sulfur. the refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products. a major expansion project was completed in 2009 that increased garyville's crude oil refining capacity, making it one of the largest refineries in the u.s. our garyville refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. galveston bay, texas city, texas refinery . our galveston bay refinery, which we acquired on february 1, 2013, is located on the texas gulf coast approximately 30 miles southeast of houston, texas. the refinery can process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, aromatics, heavy fuel oil, refinery-grade propylene, fuel-grade coke, dry gas and sulfur. the refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products. our cogeneration facility, which supplies the galveston bay refinery, currently has 1,055 megawatts of electrical production capacity and can produce 4.3 million pounds of steam per hour. approximately 46 percent of the power generated in 2016 was used at the refinery, with the remaining electricity being sold into the electricity grid. catlettsburg, kentucky refinery . our catlettsburg, kentucky refinery is located in northeastern kentucky on the western bank of the big sandy river, near the confluence with the ohio river. the catlettsburg refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, aromatics, refinery-grade propylene and propane. in the second quarter of 2015, we completed construction of a condensate splitter at our catlettsburg refinery, which increased our capacity to process condensate from the utica shale region. robinson, illinois refinery . our robinson, illinois refinery is located in southeastern illinois. the robinson refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, propane, anode-grade coke, aromatics, fuel-grade coke and slurry. the robinson refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. detroit, michigan refinery . our detroit, michigan refinery is located in southwest detroit. it is the only petroleum refinery currently operating in michigan. the detroit refinery processes sweet and heavy sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, fuel-grade coke, chemical-grade propylene, propane, slurry and sulfur. our detroit refinery earned designation as a osha vpp star site in 2010. in the fourth quarter of 2012, we completed a heavy oil upgrading and expansion project that enabled the refinery to process up to an additional 80 mbpd of heavy sour crude oils, including canadian crude oils. canton, ohio refinery . our canton, ohio refinery is located approximately 60 miles south of cleveland, ohio. the canton refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils, including production from the nearby utica shale, into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, roofing flux, propane, refinery-grade propylene and slurry. in december 2014, we completed construction of a condensate splitter at our canton refinery, which increased our capacity to process condensate from the utica shale region. texas city, texas refinery . our texas city, texas refinery is located on the texas gulf coast adjacent to our galveston bay refinery, approximately 30 miles southeast of houston, texas. the refinery processes light sweet crude oils into gasoline, chemical-grade propylene, propane, aromatics, dry gas and slurry. our texas city refinery earned designation as an osha vpp star site in 2012. as of december 31, 2016 , our refineries had 22 rail loading racks and 28 truck loading racks and four of our refineries had a total of seven owned and 11 non-owned docks. total throughput in 2016 was 91 mbpd for the refinery loading racks and 928 mbpd for the refinery docks. planned maintenance activities, or turnarounds, requiring temporary shutdown of certain refinery operating units, are periodically performed at each refinery. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional detail. 13 table of contents refined product yields the following table sets forth our refinery production by product group for each of the last three years. refined product yields ( mbpd ) 2016 2015 2014 gasoline 900 913 869 distillates 617 603 580 propane 35 36 35 feedstocks and special products 241 281 276 heavy fuel oil 32 31 25 asphalt 58 55 54 total 1,883 1,919 1,839 crude oil supply we obtain the crude oil we refine through negotiated term contracts and purchases or exchanges on the spot market. our term contracts generally have market-related pricing provisions. the following table provides information on our sources of crude oil for each of the last three years. the crude oil sourced outside of north america was acquired from various foreign national oil companies, production companies and trading companies. sources of crude oil refined ( mbpd ) 2016 2015 2014 united states 986 1,138 1,120 canada 326 244 223 middle east and other international 387 329 279 total 1,699 1,711 1,622 our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks and distribute our refined products through a variety of channels, including pipelines, trucks, railcars, ships and barges. renewable fuels we currently own a biofuel production facility in cincinnati, ohio that produces biodiesel, glycerin and other by-products. the capacity of the plant is approximately 60 million gallons per year. we hold interests in ethanol production facilities in albion, michigan; clymers, indiana and greenville, ohio. these plants have a combined ethanol production capacity of 275 million gallons per year ( 18 mbpd) and are managed by a co-owner. refined product marketing we believe we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers and consumers within our 26 -state market area. independent retailers, wholesale customers, our marathon brand jobbers and speedway brand convenience stores, airlines, transportation companies and utilities comprise the core of our customer base. in addition, we sell gasoline, distillates and asphalt for export, primarily out of our garyville and galveston bay refineries. the following table sets forth our refined product sales destined for export by product group for the past three years. refined product sales destined for export ( mbpd ) 2016 2015 2014 gasoline 91 101 79 distillates 199 214 191 asphalt 6 4 5 total 296 319 275 14 table of contents the following table sets forth, as a percentage of total refined product sales volume, the sales of refined products to our different customer types for the past three years. refined product sales by customer type 2016 2015 2014 private-brand marketers, commercial and industrial customers, including spot market 69 % 69 % 73 % marathon-branded independent entrepreneurs 14 % 14 % 15 % speedway convenience stores 17 % 17 % 12 % the following table sets forth the approximate number of retail outlets by state where independent entrepreneurs maintain marathon-branded retail outlets, as of december 31, 2016 . state approximate number of marathon retail outlets alabama 227 florida 606 georgia 281 illinois 292 indiana 640 kentucky 583 louisiana 2 maryland 1 michigan 761 minnesota 47 mississippi 79 north carolina 220 ohio 859 pennsylvania 66 south carolina 101 tennessee 404 virginia 121 west virginia 117 wisconsin 48 total 5,455 the following table sets forth our refined product sales volumes by product group for each of the last three years. refined product sales by product group ( mbpd ) 2016 2015 2014 gasoline 1,219 1,241 1,116 distillates 676 667 623 propane 35 36 34 feedstocks and special products 231 258 268 heavy fuel oil 35 30 28 asphalt 63 57 56 total 2,259 2,289 2,125 gasoline and distillates . we sell gasoline, gasoline blendstocks and distillates (including no. 1 and no. 2 fuel oils, jet fuel, kerosene and diesel fuel) to wholesale customers, marathon-branded independent entrepreneurs and our speedway convenience stores and on the spot market. in addition, we sell diesel fuel and gasoline for export to international customers. we sold 50 percent of our gasoline sales volumes and 87 percent of our distillates sales volumes on a wholesale or spot market basis in 2016 . the demand for gasoline and distillates is seasonal in many of our markets, with demand typically at its highest levels during the summer months. 15 table of contents we have blended ethanol into gasoline for more than 25 years and began expanding our blending program in 2007, in part due to federal regulations that require us to use specified volumes of renewable fuels. ethanol volumes sold in blended gasoline were 84 mbpd in 2016 , 85 mbpd in 2015 and 78 mbpd in 2014 . we sell reformulated gasoline, which is also blended with ethanol, in 12 states in our marketing area. we also sell biodiesel-blended diesel fuel in 18 states in our marketing area. the future expansion or contraction of our ethanol and biodiesel blending programs will be driven by market economics and government regulations. propane . we produce propane at most of our refineries. propane is primarily used for home heating and cooking, as a feedstock within the petrochemical industry, for grain drying and as a fuel for trucks and other vehicles. our propane sales are typically split evenly between the home heating market and petrochemical consumers. feedstocks and petrochemicals . we are a producer and marketer of feedstocks and petrochemicals. product availability varies by refinery and includes platformate, alkylate, fcc unit gas, naptha, dry gas, propylene, raffinate, butane, benzene, xylene, molten sulfur, cumene and toluene. we market these products domestically to customers in the chemical, agricultural and fuel-blending industries. in addition, we produce fuel-grade coke at our garyville, detroit and galveston bay refineries, which is used for power generation and in miscellaneous industrial applications, and anode-grade coke at our robinson refinery, which is used to make carbon anodes for the aluminum smelting industry. our feedstocks and petrochemical sales decreased to 231 mbpd in 2016 from 258 mbpd in 2015 and decreased in 2015 from 268 mbpd in 2014. the decrease in 2016 was primarily due to more feedstocks used in production versus selling them on the spot market. the decrease in 2015 was primarily due to higher turnaround activity in 2014 resulting in more available feedstocks, more feedstocks used in production versus selling them on the spot market and market conditions in 2015. heavy fuel oil . we produce and market heavy residual fuel oil or related components, including slurry, at all of our refineries. heavy residual fuel oil is primarily used in the utility and ship bunkering (fuel) industries, though there are other more specialized uses of the product. asphalt . we have refinery-based asphalt production capacity of up to 102 mbpcd, which includes asphalt cements, polymer-modified asphalt, emulsified asphalt, industrial asphalts and roofing flux. we have a broad customer base, including asphalt-paving contractors, government entities (states, counties, cities and townships) and asphalt roofing shingle manufacturers. we sell asphalt in the domestic and export wholesale markets via rail, barge and vessel. 16 table of contents terminals as of december 31, 2016 , we owned and operated 61 light product and 18 asphalt terminals. our light product and asphalt terminals averaged 1,429 mbpd and 31 mbpd of throughput in 2016 , respectively. in addition, we distribute refined products through one leased light product terminal, two light product terminals in which we have partial ownership interests but do not operate and approximately 121 third-party light product and two third-party asphalt terminals in our market area. we have offered 62 of these light product terminals, which include virtually all of our owned and operated light product terminals as well as the one leased terminal and the two partially-owned terminals, to mplx and expect this dropdown transaction to be completed in the first quarter of 2017. the following table sets forth additional details about our owned and operated terminals at december 31, 2016 . owned and operated terminals number of terminals tank storage capacity ( million barrels ) number of tanks number of loading lanes light product terminals: alabama 2 0.4 19 4 florida 4 3.0 85 22 georgia 4 0.9 39 9 illinois 4 1.2 44 14 indiana 6 2.9 76 17 kentucky 6 2.3 69 25 louisiana 1 0.1 9 2 michigan 8 2.2 93 26 north carolina 4 1.3 54 13 ohio 13 3.8 148 32 pennsylvania 1 0.3 13 2 south carolina 1 0.3 9 3 tennessee 4 1.0 43 12 west virginia 2 0.1 9 2 wisconsin 1 0.2 9 4 subtotal light product terminals 61 20.0 719 187 asphalt terminals: florida 1 0.2 4 3 illinois 2 0.1 34 6 indiana 2 0.4 23 6 kentucky 4 0.5 57 14 louisiana 1 0.1 11 2 michigan 1 2 8 ohio 4 2.0 69 13 pennsylvania 1 0.5 16 8 tennessee 2 0.5 44 8 subtotal asphalt terminals 18 4.3 260 68 total owned and operated terminals 79 24.3 979 255 17 table of contents transportation - truck and rail as of december 31, 2016 , we owned 163 transport trucks and 180 trailers with an aggregate capacity of 1.6 million gallons for the movement of refined products and crude oil. in addition, we had 2,059 leased and 15 owned railcars of various sizes and capacities for movement and storage of refined products. the following table sets forth additional details about our railcars. number of railcars class of equipment owned leased total capacity per railcar general service tank cars 781 781 20,000-30,000 gallons high pressure tank cars 984 984 33,500 gallons open-top hoppers 15 294 309 4,000 cubic feet 15 2,059 2,074 speedway our speedway segment sells gasoline, diesel and merchandise through convenience stores that it owns and operates under the speedway brand. speedway convenience stores offer a wide variety of merchandise, including prepared foods, beverages and non-food items. speedway's speedy rewards loyalty program has been a highly successful loyalty program since its inception in 2004, with a consistently growing base which averaged more than 5.7 million active members in 2016 . due to speedway's ability to capture and analyze member-specific transactional data, speedway is able to offer the speedy rewards members discounts and promotions specific to their buying behavior. we believe speedy rewards is a key reason customers choose speedway over competitors and it continues to drive significant value for both speedway and our speedy rewards members. the demand for gasoline is seasonal, with the highest demand usually occurring during the summer driving season. margins from the sale of merchandise tend to be less volatile than margins from the retail sale of gasoline and diesel fuel. merchandise margin as a percent of total gross margin for speedway increased in 2016, primarily due to lower light product margins during the year. the following table sets forth speedway merchandise statistics for the past three years. speedway merchandise statistics 2016 2015 2014 merchandise sales (in millions) $ 5,007 $ 4,879 $ 3,611 merchandise gross margin (in millions) 1,435 1,368 975 merchandise as a percent of total gross margin 56 % 54 % 57 % 18 table of contents as of december 31, 2016 , speedway had 2,733 convenience stores in 21 states. the following table sets forth the number of convenience stores by state owned by our speedway segment as of december 31, 2016 . state number of convenience stores (a) connecticut 1 delaware 4 florida 241 georgia 1 illinois 115 indiana 309 kentucky 147 massachusetts 114 michigan 303 new hampshire 12 new jersey 72 new york 238 north carolina 278 ohio 488 pennsylvania 113 rhode island 20 south carolina 52 tennessee 38 virginia 62 west virginia 61 wisconsin 64 total 2,733 (a) includes stores with commercial fueling lanes. speedway also owns a 29 percent interest in pfj southeast llc ( pfj southeast ), which is a joint venture between speedway and pilot with 123 travel center locations primarily in the southeast united states as of december 31, 2016. as of december 31, 2016 , speedway owned 90 transport trucks and 83 trailers for the movement of gasoline and distillate. midstream following the markwest merger, we changed the name of our pipeline transportation segment to the midstream segment to reflect its expanded business activities. the midstream segment includes the operations of mplx and certain other related operations. mplx mplx is a diversified, growth-oriented publicly traded master limited partnership formed by us to own, operate, develop and acquire midstream energy infrastructure assets. on december 4, 2015, mplx merged with markwest, whereby markwest became a wholly-owned subsidiary of mplx. as of december 31, 2016 , our ownership interest in mplx was 25.5 percent , including our two percent general partner interest. this ownership percentage reflects the conversion of the mplx class b units in july 2017 at 1.09 to 1.00. as of december 31, 2016 , mplx assets, through its combination with markwest, included approximately 7,500 mmcf/d of natural gas processing capacity and 500 mbpd of ngl fractionation capacity and more than 5,600 miles of gas gathering and ngl pipelines. 19 table of contents mplx assets as of december 31, 2016 also included 100 percent ownership of common carrier pipeline systems through marathon pipe line llc ( mpl ) and ohio river pipe line llc ( orpl ), and a one million barrel butane storage cavern in west virginia. mplx, through mpl and orpl, owned or leased and operated 1,008 miles of common carrier crude oil lines and 1,958 miles of common carrier products lines located in nine states and five tank farms in illinois and indiana with available storage capacity of approximately five million barrels that is committed to mpc. in 2016 , third parties generated 16 percent of the crude oil and refined product shipments on mplx's common carrier pipelines, excluding volumes shipped by mpc under joint tariffs with third parties. these common carrier pipelines transported the volumes shown in the mplx pipeline throughput information in the midstream operating statistics table below for each of the last three years. as of december 31, 2016 , mplx's marine transportation operations included 18 owned towboats, as well as 204 owned and 18 leased barges that transport refined products and crude oil on the ohio, mississippi and illinois rivers and their tributaries and inter-coastal waterways. the following table sets forth additional details about mplx's barges and towboats. class of equipment number in class capacity (thousand barrels) inland tank barges: (a) less than 25,000 barrels 64 963 25,000 barrels and over 158 4,631 total 222 5,594 inland towboats: less than 2,000 horsepower 2 2,000 horsepower and over 16 total 18 (a) all of our barges are double-hulled. mpc-retained midstream assets and investments we have ownership interests in several crude oil and products pipeline systems and pipeline companies which we retained at the formation of mplx. we have offered certain of these assets to mplx in a dropdown transaction we expect to be completed in the first quarter of 2017. mpc consolidated volumes transported through our common carrier pipelines, which include mplx's pipelines and our undivided joint interests, are shown in the mpc consolidated pipeline throughput information in the following table for each of the last three years. the following table shows operating statistics for our midstream segment. midstream operating statistics 2016 2015 2014 mpc consolidated pipeline throughput (mbpd) crude oil pipelines 1,402 1,277 1,241 refined products pipelines 909 914 878 total 2,311 2,191 2,119 mplx pipeline throughput (mbpd) (included in volumes above) (a)(b) crude oil pipelines 1,088 1,061 1,041 refined products pipelines 908 914 878 total 1,996 1,975 1,919 gathering system throughput (mmcf/d) (c) 3,275 3,075 natural gas processed (mmcf/d) (c) 5,761 5,468 c2 (ethane) + ngls fractionated (mbpd) (c) 335 307 (a) mplx predecessor volumes reported in mplx's filings include our undivided joint interest crude oil pipeline systems for periods prior to mplx's initial public offering, which were not contributed to mplx. the undivided joint interest volumes are not included above. (b) volumes represent 100 percent of the throughput through these pipelines. (c) beginning december 4, 2015, which was the effective date of the markwest merger. 20 table of contents as of december 31, 2016 , we have indirect ownership interests in two ocean vessel joint ventures with crowley through our investment in crowley coastal partners. these joint ventures operate and charter four jones act product tankers, most of which are leased to mpc, and own and operate three 750 series atb vessels that are leased to mpc. the following table sets forth additional details about our product tankers and atb vessels. class of equipment number in class capacity (thousand barrels) jones act product tankers (a) 4 1,320 750 series atb vessels (b) 3 990 (a) represents ownership through our indirect noncontrolling interest in crowley ocean partners. (b) represents ownership through our indirect noncontrolling interest in crowley blue water partners. the locations and detailed information about our midstream assets are included under item 2. properties and are incorporated herein by reference. competition, market conditions and seasonality the downstream petroleum business is highly competitive, particularly with regard to accessing crude oil and other feedstock supply and the marketing of refined products. we compete with a large number of other companies to acquire crude oil for refinery processing and in the distribution and marketing of a full array of petroleum products. based upon the the oil &amp; gas journal 2016 worldwide refinery survey, we ranked third among u.s. petroleum companies on the basis of u.s. crude oil refining capacity as of december 31, 2016 . we compete in four distinct markets for the sale of refined products wholesale, spot, branded and retail distribution. we believe we compete with about 50 companies in the sale of refined products to wholesale marketing customers, including private-brand marketers and large commercial and industrial consumers; about 100 companies in the sale of refined products in the spot market; 12 refiners or marketers in the supply of refined products to refiner-branded independent entrepreneurs; and approximately 850 retailers in the retail sale of refined products. in addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and retail consumers. we do not produce any of the crude oil we refine. we also face strong competition for sales of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. our competitors include service stations and convenience stores operated by fully integrated major oil companies and their independent entrepreneurs and other well-recognized national or regional convenience stores and travel centers, often selling gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise at competitive prices. non-traditional retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, have affected the convenience store industry with their entrance into sales of retail gasoline and diesel fuel. energy analysts international, inc. estimated such retailers had approximately 15 percent of the u.s. gasoline market in mid- 2016 . our midstream operations face competition for natural gas gathering, crude oil transportation and in obtaining natural gas supplies for our processing and related services; in obtaining unprocessed ngls for gathering and fractionation; and in marketing our products and services. competition for natural gas supplies is based primarily on the location of gas gathering facilities and gas processing plants, operating efficiency and reliability and the ability to obtain a satisfactory price for products recovered. competitive factors affecting our fractionation services include availability of capacity, proximity to supply and industry marketing centers and cost efficiency and reliability of service. competition for customers to purchase our natural gas and ngls is based primarily on price, delivery capabilities, flexibility and maintenance of high-quality customer relationships. in addition, certain of our midstream operations are highly regulated, which affects the rates that our common carrier pipelines can charge for transportation services and the return we obtain from such pipelines. market conditions in the oil and gas industry are cyclical and subject to global economic and political events and new and changing governmental regulations. our operating results are affected by price changes in crude oil, natural gas and refined products, as well as changes in competitive conditions in the markets we serve. price differentials between sweet and sour crude oils, wti and lls crude oils and other market structure differentials also affect our operating results. demand for gasoline, diesel fuel and asphalt is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets, primarily due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and construction. as a result, the operating results for each of our segments for the first and fourth quarters may be lower than for those in the second and third quarters of each calendar year. 21 table of contents our midstream segment can be affected by seasonal fluctuations in the demand for natural gas and ngls and the related fluctuations in commodity prices caused by various factors such as changes in transportation and travel patterns and variations in weather patterns from year to year. in the northeast region, we could be particularly impacted by seasonality as the majority of its revenues are generated by ngl sales. however, we manage the seasonality impact through the execution of our marketing strategy. we have access to up to 50 million gallons of propane storage capacity in the northeast region provided by an arrangement with a third-party which provides us with flexibility to manage the seasonality impact. overall, our exposure to the seasonal fluctuations in the commodity markets is declining due to our growth in fee-based business. environmental matters our management is responsible for ensuring that our operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that support and foster our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and for reviewing our overall environmental performance. we also have a corporate emergency response team that oversees our response to any major environmental or other emergency incident involving us or any of our facilities. we believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to issues concerning the extent and causes of climate change will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations. currently, legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gases are in various phases of review, discussion or implementation. the cost to comply with these laws and regulations cannot be estimated at this time, but could be significant. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors. we estimate and publicly report greenhouse gas emissions from our operations and products. additionally, we continuously strive to improve operational and energy efficiencies through resource and energy conservation where practicable. our operations are subject to numerous other laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. such laws and regulations include, among others, the clean air act ( caa ) with respect to air emissions, the clean water act ( cwa ) with respect to water discharges, the resource conservation and recovery act ( rcra ) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ( cercla ) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances and the oil pollution act of 1990 ( opa-90 ) with respect to oil pollution and response. in addition, many states where we operate have similar laws. new laws are being enacted and regulations are being adopted on a continuing basis, and the costs of compliance with such new laws and regulations are very difficult to estimate until finalized. for a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and costs of compliance for air, water, solid waste and remediation, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - environmental matters and compliance costs. air we are subject to many requirements in connection with air emissions from our operations. internationally and domestically, emphasis has been placed on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. the u.s. pledge in 2009, as part of the copenhagen accord, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020 remains in effect and was reaffirmed in president obama's 2013 climate action plan. although the united states signed the 2015 paris agreement on climate change, it does not legally require parties to the agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and the united states' future activities in response to the paris agreement are unknown. in november 2016, the obama administration released its strategy for deep de-carbonization, which aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to 80 percent below 2005 levels by 2050. the u.s. climate change strategy and implementation of that strategy through legislation and regulation may change under president trump's administration; therefore, the impact to our industry and operations due to greenhouse gas regulation is unknown at this time. in 2009, the epa issued an endangerment finding that greenhouse gas emissions contribute to air pollution that endangers public health and welfare. related to the endangerment finding, in april 2010, the epa finalized a greenhouse gas emission standard for mobile sources (cars and other light duty vehicles). the endangerment finding, the mobile source standard and the epa's determination that greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the clean air act resulted in permitting of greenhouse gas emissions at stationary sources, but as a result of the epa's tailoring rule, permit applicability was limited to larger sources such as refineries. legal challenges were filed against these epa actions. in june 2014, the united states supreme court ruled that the clean air act prevention of significant deterioration program for new and modified major stationary sources is not triggered by greenhouse gas emissions alone. the united states supreme court did, however, uphold the requirement for new or modified stationary sources that will also emit a criteria pollutant to control greenhouse gas emissions through best available control technology. implementing best available control technology may result in increased costs to our operations. a few mpc projects may trigger greenhouse gas permitting requirements but any additional capital spending will likely not be significant. 22 table of contents the epa has finalized source performance standards for greenhouse gas emissions for new and existing electric utility generating units. these standards could impact electric and natural gas rates for all our operations. legal challenges have been filed by several states and by industry groups seeking to overturn the final rules. in february 2016, the united states supreme court stayed implementation of the standards for existing utility generating units (also known as the clean power plan) until complete disposition of the litigation. congress may again also consider legislation on greenhouse gas emissions or a carbon tax. in the absence of federal legislation or regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, states may become more active in regulating greenhouse gas emissions. these measures include state actions to develop statewide or regional programs to impose emission reductions. these measures may also include low carbon fuel standards, such as the california program. in addition, private parties have sued utilities and other emitters of greenhouse gas emissions, but such suits have been largely unsuccessful. we have not been named in any of those lawsuits. private parties have also sued federal and certain state governmental entities seeking additional greenhouse gas emission reductions beyond those currently being undertaken. in sum, requiring reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any greenhouse gas emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments. these requirements may also significantly affect mpc's refinery operations and may have an indirect effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the extent and magnitude of the impact from greenhouse gas regulation or legislation cannot be reasonably estimated due to the uncertainty regarding the additional measures and how they will be implemented. in 2013, the obama administration made changes to the social cost of carbon ( scc ) estimate. the scc was first issued in 2010. the scc is to be used by the epa and other federal agencies in regulatory cost-benefit analyses to take into account alleged broad economic consequences associated with changes to emissions of greenhouse gases. in 2013, the obama administration significantly increased the estimate to $36 per ton. in response to the regulated community and congress' critiques of how the scc was developed, the office of management and budget provided an opportunity to comment on the scc, but ultimately did not make any significant revisions. in august 2016, the white house council on environmental quality issued its final guidance to federal agencies on assessing a project's impact to climate change under the national environmental policy act, by requiring an estimation of the greenhouse gas emissions from the project, including using the scc when analyzing costs and benefits of a project. while the impact of a higher scc in future regulations is not known at this time, it may result in increased costs to our operations. the epa has also used an estimate of the social cost of methane in its regulatory impact analysis to justify regulating methane as a pollutant for new and modified sources in the oil and natural gas sector. in 2015, the epa finalized a revision to the national ambient air quality standards ( naaqs ) for ozone. the epa lowered the primary ozone naaqs from 75 ppb to 70 ppb. this revision initiates a multi-year process in which nonattainment designations will be made based on more recent ozone measurements that includes data from 2016. states will then propose and adopt, as necessary, new rules reducing emissions to meet the new standard. currently, the epa is in the process of implementing the 75 ppb ozone standard that the epa had promulgated in march 2008. the impact of a stricter standard cannot be accurately estimated due to the present uncertainty regarding area nonattainment designations and the additional requirements that states may impose. additionally, legal petitions challenging the revised ozone standard have been filed, adding uncertainty to the revised standard. on september 29, 2015, the epa signed the final regulations revising existing refinery air emissions standards. the revised regulations were published in the federal register on december 1, 2015. the revised rule requires additional controls, lower emission standards and ambient air monitoring. we do not anticipate that mpc's costs to comply with the revised regulations will be material to our results of operations or cash flows. water we maintain numerous discharge permits as required under the national pollutant discharge elimination system program of the cwa and have implemented systems to oversee our compliance with these permits. in addition, we are regulated under opa-90, which among other things, requires the owner or operator of a tank vessel or a facility to maintain an emergency plan to respond to releases of oil or hazardous substances. opa-90 also requires the responsible company to pay resulting removal costs and damages and provides for civil penalties and criminal sanctions for violations of its provisions. we operate tank vessels and facilities from which spills of oil and hazardous substances could occur. we have implemented emergency oil response plans for all of our components and facilities covered by opa-90 and we have established spill prevention, control and countermeasures plans for all facilities subject to such requirements. additionally, opa-90 requires that new tank vessels entering or operating in u.s. waters be double-hulled and that existing tank vessels that are not double-hulled be retrofitted or removed from u.s. service. all barges used for river transport of our raw materials and refined products meet the double-hulled requirements of opa-90. some coastal states in which we operate have passed state laws similar to opa-90, but with expanded liability provisions, that include provisions for cargo owner responsibility as well as ship owner and operator responsibility. 23 table of contents in june 2015, the epa and the united states army corps of engineers finalized significant changes to the definition of the term waters of the united states ( wotus ) used in numerous programs under the cwa. this final rulemaking is referred to as the clean water rule. the clean water rule has been challenged in multiple federal courts by many states, trade groups, and other interested parties, and in october 2015, a united states court of appeals issued a nationwide stay of the clean water rule. the clean water rule, as written, expands permitting, planning and reporting obligations and may extend the timing to secure permits for pipeline and fixed asset construction and maintenance activities. the clean water rule does contain new language intended to address concerns that the proposed rule included storm water conveyances and storage structures as wotus, and we continue to review how that new language will apply under specific circumstances. court challenges of the clean water rule will continue through 2017. in 2015, the epa issued its intent to review the cwa categorical effluent limitation guidelines ( elg ) for the petroleum refining sector. during 2016, the epa prepared a draft information request ( icr ) requesting significant wastewater and treatment process details and may perform sampling of effluent at one or more of our refineries. the icr is expected to issue in 2017. the epa has indicated they believe there have been significant changes in the characteristics of wastewaters generated within refining operations that warrant the review. specific targets for the review are the impacts of processing heavier crude oils and the transfer of air pollutants to wastewater when air pollution abatement devices are in use. a similar project, initiated in 2007 for steam power generation with similar attributes, resulted in a significant change in the treatment requirements for coal-fired power plants. the refining sector elg review has the potential to result in a similar impact. we are actively engaged in the planning process for the 2017 information request and effluent sampling campaign and engaged with the american petroleum institute and the american fuel &amp; petrochemical manufacturers associations on this matter. the typical life-cycle for an elg review from the intent to review to issuance of a final rule that would require upgrades is seven years. the impact of an elg review cannot be accurately estimated at this time. solid waste we continue to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. rcra establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. besides affecting waste disposal practices, rcra also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of usts containing regulated substances. we have ongoing rcra treatment and disposal operations at two of our facilities and primarily utilize offsite third-party treatment and disposal facilities. ongoing rcra-related costs, however, are not expected to be material to our results of operations or cash flows. remediation we own or operate, or have owned or operated, certain convenience stores and other locations where, during the normal course of operations, releases of refined products from usts have occurred. federal and state laws require that contamination caused by such releases at these sites be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards. the enforcement of the ust regulations under rcra has been delegated to the states, which administer their own ust programs. our obligation to remediate such contamination varies, depending on the extent of the releases and the stringency of the applicable state laws and regulations. a portion of these remediation costs may be recoverable from the appropriate state ust reimbursement funds once the applicable deductibles have been satisfied. we also have ongoing remediation projects at a number of our current and former refinery, terminal and pipeline locations. penalties or other sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance. claims under cercla and similar state acts have been raised with respect to the clean-up of various waste disposal and other sites. cercla is intended to facilitate the clean-up of hazardous substances without regard to fault. potentially responsible parties for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the hazardous substances at the site. liability is strict and can be joint and several. because of various factors including the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and clean-up costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, we are unable to reasonably estimate our ultimate cost of compliance with cercla; however, we do not believe such costs will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. mileage standards, renewable fuels and other fuels requirements in 2007, the u.s. congress passed the energy independence and security act ( eisa ), which, among other things, set a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the united states by model year 2020, and contains the rfs2. in august 2012, the epa and the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ) jointly adopted regulations that establish average industry fleet fuel economy standards for passenger cars and light trucks of up to 41 miles per gallon by model year 2021 and average fleet fuel economy standards of up to 49.7 miles per gallon by model year 2025. the standards from 2022 to 2025 are the government's current estimate but will require further rulemaking by the nhtsa. the epa in the fourth quarter of 2016 determined that its proposed targets for ghg reduction are achievable and did not adjust its 24 table of contents 2022 to 2025 estimated standards. new or alternative transportation fuels such as compressed natural gas could also pose a competitive threat to our operations. the rfs2 required the total volume of renewable transportation fuels sold or introduced annually in the u.s. to reach 22.25 billion gallons in 2016, 24.0 billion gallons in 2017 and increase to 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. within the total volume of renewable fuel, eisa established an advanced biofuel volume of 7.25 billion gallons in 2016, 9.0 billion gallons in 2017 and increasing to 21.0 billion gallons in 2022. subsets within the advanced biofuel volume include biomass-based diesel, which was set as at least 1.0 billion gallons in 2014 through 2022 (to be determined by the epa through rulemaking), and cellulosic biofuel, which was set at 4.25 billion gallons in 2016, 5.5 billion gallons in 2017 and increasing to 16.0 billion gallons in 2022. on november 30, 2015, the epa finalized the renewable fuel standards for the years of 2014, 2015 and 2016 as well as the biomass-based diesel standard for 2017. because the epa missed the statutory deadlines for establishing the standards for 2014 and 2015, the epa used its waiver authority under eisa to set the standards using actual consumption data obtained from epa's tracking system, emts. the epa's use of its general waiver authority to reduce the statutory volumes has been challenged in court. a court decision vacating the 2014-2016 renewable fuel standards on the basis that the epa unreasonably exercised its general waiver authority could increase our cost of compliance with the renewable fuels standards and be detrimental to the rin market. on november 23, 2016, the epa finalized the renewable fuel standards for the year 2017 and the biomass based diesel standard for 2018. the epa used its cellulosic waiver authority to reduce the standards from the statutory amounts to the following: 19.28 billion gallons total renewable fuel; 4.28 billion gallons advanced biofuel; and 311 million gallons cellulosic ethanol. the epa increased the biomass based diesel standard for 2018 to 2.0 billion gallons. in the near term, the rfs2 will be satisfied primarily with ethanol blended into gasoline. vehicle, regulatory and infrastructure constraints limit the blending of significantly more than 10 percent ethanol into gasoline ( e10 ). the volumes for 2016 and 2017 result in the ethanol content of gasoline exceeding the e10 blendwall, which will require obligated parties to either sell e15 or flexfuel at levels that exceed historical levels or retire carryover rins that had been generated in prior years. on october 13, 2016, the epa issued a partial waver decision under the caa to allow for an increase in the amount of ethanol permitted to be blended into gasoline from e10 to e15 for 2007 and newer light-duty motor vehicles. on january 21, 2011, the epa issued a second waver for the use of e15 in vehicles model year 2001-2006. there are numerous issues, including state and federal regulatory issues, which need to be addressed before e15 can be marketed for use in traditional gasoline engines. additionally, there are infrastructure compatibility issues and vehicle manufacturer warranty concerns related to e15 usage. neither e15 nor flexfuel has been readily accepted by the consumer. with potentially uncertain supplies, the advanced biofuels programs may present specific challenges in that we may have to enter into arrangements with other parties or purchase credits from the epa to meet our obligations to use advanced biofuels, including biomass-based diesel and cellulosic biofuel. we made investments in infrastructure capable of expanding biodiesel blending capability to help comply with the biodiesel rfs2 requirement by buying and blending biodiesel into our refined diesel product, and by buying needed biodiesel rins in the epa-created biodiesel rins market. on april 1, 2014, we purchased a facility in cincinnati, ohio, which currently produces biodiesel, glycerin and other by-products. the capacity of the plant is approximately 60 million gallons per year. as a producer of biodiesel, we now generate rins, thereby reducing our reliance on the external rin market. on november 10, 2016, the epa proposed to deny petitions requesting that the point of obligation for the rfs be moved to the terminal rack. the epa is accepting comments on its proposed denial. should the epa decide that its proposal was incorrect and move the point of obligation, we could be subject to increased costs and compliance uncertainties the rfs2 has required, and may in the future continue to require, additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. we may experience a decrease in demand for refined petroleum products due to an increase in combined fleet mileage or due to refined petroleum products being replaced by renewable fuels. on march 3, 2014, the epa signed the final tier 3 fuel standards. the final tier 3 fuel standards require, among other things, a lower annual average sulfur level in gasoline to no more than 10 ppm beginning in calendar year 2017. in addition, gasoline refiners and importers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 80 ppm while retailers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 95 ppm. we anticipate that we will spend approximately $650 million between 2014 and 2019 to comply with these standards, which includes estimated capital expenditures of approximately $200 million in 2017. 25 table of contents trademarks, patents and licenses our marathon trademark is material to the conduct of our refining and marketing operations, and our speedway trademark is material to the conduct of our retail marketing operations. we currently hold a number of u.s. and foreign patents and have various pending patent applications. although in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important to us, we do not regard any single patent or license or group of related patents or licenses as critical or essential to our business as a whole. in general, we depend on our technological capabilities and the application of know-how rather than patents and licenses in the conduct of our operations. employees we had approximately 44,460 regular full-time and part-time employees as of december 31, 2016 , which includes approximately 32,880 employees of speedway. certain hourly employees at our canton, catlettsburg, galveston bay and texas city refineries are represented by the united steel, paper and forestry, rubber, manufacturing, energy, allied industrial and service workers union under labor agreements that are due to expire in 2019. the international brotherhood of teamsters represents certain hourly employees at our detroit refinery under a labor agreement that is also scheduled to expire in 2019. in addition, they represent certain hourly employees at speedway under agreements that cover certain outlets in new york and new jersey that expire on march 14, 2019 and june 30, 2019, respectively. executive and corporate officers of the registrant the executive and corporate officers of mpc are as follows: name age as of january 31, 2017 position with mpc gary r. heminger 63 chairman, president and chief executive officer molly r. benson (a) 50 vice president, corporate secretary and chief compliance officer raymond l. brooks 56 senior vice president, refining suzanne gagle 51 vice president, general counsel timothy t. griffith 47 senior vice president and chief financial officer john r. haley (a) 60 vice president, tax thomas kaczynski 55 vice president, finance and treasurer thomas m. kelley 57 senior vice president, marketing anthony r. kenney 63 president, speedway llc rodney p. nichols 64 senior vice president, human resources and administrative services randy s. nickerson 55 executive vice president, corporate strategy c. michael palmer 63 senior vice president, supply, distribution and planning john j. quaid 45 vice president and controller david r. sauber (a) 53 vice president, human resources and labor relations john s. swearingen 57 senior vice president, transportation and logistics donald c. templin 53 executive vice president donald w. wehrly (a) 57 vice president and chief information officer david l. whikehart (a) 57 vice president, environment, safety and corporate affairs (a) corporate officer. mr. heminger was appointed president and chief executive officer effective june 30, 2011, and to his current position in 2016. prior to this appointment, mr. heminger was president of marathon petroleum company lp (formerly known as marathon ashland petroleum llc and marathon petroleum company llc), currently a wholly-owned subsidiary of mpc and prior to the spinoff, a wholly-owned subsidiary of marathon oil. he assumed responsibility as president of marathon petroleum company lp in september 2001. ms. benson was appointed vice president, corporate secretary and chief compliance officer effective march 1, 2016. prior to this appointment, ms. benson was assistant general counsel, corporate and finance beginning in april 2012, group counsel, corporate and finance beginning in 2011, group counsel, north american production for marathon oil company beginning in 2010 and senior attorney, downstream business beginning in 2006. 26 table of contents mr. brooks was appointed senior vice president, refining effective march 1, 2016. prior to this appointment, mr. brooks was general manager, galveston bay refinery beginning in february 2013, general manager, robinson refinery beginning in 2010 and general manager, st. paul park, minnesota refinery (no longer owned by mpc) beginning in 2006. ms. gagle was appointed vice president and general counsel effective march 1, 2016. prior to this appointment, ms. gagle was assistant general counsel, litigation and human resources beginning in april 2011, senior group counsel, downstream operations beginning in 2010 and group counsel, litigation, beginning in 2003. mr. griffith was appointed senior vice president and chief financial officer effective march 3, 2015. prior to this appointment, mr. griffith served as vice president, finance and investor relations, and treasurer beginning in january 2014. he was vice president of finance and treasurer beginning in august 2011. previously, mr. griffith was vice president investor relations and treasurer of smurfit-stone container corporation, a packaging manufacturer, in st. louis, missouri, from 2008 to 2011. mr. haley was appointed vice president, tax effective june 1, 2013. prior to this appointment, mr. haley served as director of tax beginning in july 2011 and as a tax manager for marathon oil company beginning in 1996. mr. kaczynski was appointed vice president, finance and treasurer effective august 31, 2015. prior to this appointment, mr. kaczynski was vice president and treasurer of goodyear tire and rubber company beginning in 2014. previously, he served as vice president, investor relations, of goodyear tire and rubber company beginning in 2013, vice president and corporate treasurer of affinia group inc. beginning in 2005, and director of affiliate finance and of capital markets and bank relations of visteon corporation beginning in 2000. mr. kelley was appointed senior vice president, marketing effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. kelley served in the same capacity for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in january 2010. previously, he served as director of crude supply and logistics for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in january 2008, and as a brand marketing manager for eight years prior to that. mr. kenney has served as president of speedway llc since august 2005. prior to this appointment, mr. kenney served as vice president, business development of marathon ashland petroleum llc beginning in 2001. mr. nichols was appointed senior vice president, human resources and administrative services effective march 1, 2012. prior to this appointment, mr. nichols served as vice president, human resources and administrative services beginning on june 30, 2011 and served in the same capacity for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in april 1998. mr. nickerson was appointed executive vice president, corporate strategy effective december 4, 2015 at the time of the markwest merger. prior to this appointment, mr. nickerson served as chief commercial officer of markwest beginning in 2006 and senior vice president, corporate development beginning in 2003. mr. palmer was appointed senior vice president, supply, distribution and planning effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. palmer served as vice president, supply, distribution and planning for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in june 2010. he served as crude supply and logistics director for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in february 2010, and as senior vice president, oil sands operations and commercial activities for marathon oil canada corporation beginning in 2007. mr. quaid was appointed vice president and controller effective june 23, 2014. prior to this appointment, mr. quaid was vice president of iron ore at united states steel corporation ( u. s. steel ), an integrated steel producer, beginning in january 2014. previously, mr. quaid served in various leadership positions at u. s. steel since february 2002, including vice president and treasurer beginning in august 2011, controller, north american flat-rolled operations beginning in july 2010 and assistant corporate controller beginning in 2008. mr. sauber was appointed vice president, human resources and labor relations effective february 1, 2017. prior to this appointment, mr. sauber served as vice president, human resources policy, benefits and services of shell oil company beginning in 2013. previously, mr. sauber served in various leadership positions at shell oil company since 2000 including regional human resources manager for u.s. manufacturing in 2009. mr. swearingen was appointed senior vice president, transportation and logistics effective march 3, 2015. prior to this appointment, mr. swearingen served as vice president of health, environmental, safety &amp; security beginning june 30, 2011. previously, he was president of marathon pipe line llc beginning in 2009 and the illinois refining division manager beginning in november 2001. 27 table of contents mr. templin was appointed executive vice president effective january 1, 2016. prior to this appointment, mr. templin served as executive vice president, supply, transportation and marketing beginning march 3, 2015 and senior vice president and chief financial officer beginning on june 30, 2011. previously, he was a partner at pricewaterhousecoopers llp, an audit, tax and advisory services provider, with various audit and management responsibilities beginning in 1996. mr. wehrly was appointed vice president and chief information officer effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. wehrly was the manager of information technology services for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in 2003. mr. whikehart was appointed vice president, environmental, safety and corporate affairs effective february 29, 2016. prior to this appointment, mr. whikehart served as vice president, corporate planning, government &amp; public affairs effective january 1, 2016 and director, product supply and optimization beginning in march 2011. previously, mr. whikehart served as director, climate change and carbon management beginning in 2010 and director, business development beginning in 2008. available information general information about mpc, including corporate governance principles and charters for the audit committee, compensation committee and corporate governance and nominating committee, can be found at http://ir.marathonpetroleum.com . in addition, our code of business conduct and code of ethics for senior financial officers are also available in this same location. mpc uses its website, www.marathonpetroleum.com , as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, financial information and market data. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished with the sec. these documents are also available in hard copy, free of charge, by contacting our investor relations office. in addition, our website allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive email alerts when we post news releases and financial information on our website. information contained on our website is not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k or other securities filings. 28 table of contents item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k in evaluating us and our common stock. some of these risks relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate, while others relate to the ownership of our common stock. our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks, and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline. risks relating to our business a substantial or extended decline in refining and marketing gross margins would reduce our operating results and cash flows and could materially and adversely impact our future rate of growth, the carrying value of our assets and our ability to execute share repurchases and continue the payment of our base dividend. our operating results, cash flows, future rate of growth, the carrying value of our assets and our ability to execute share repurchases and continue the payment of our base dividend are highly dependent on the margins we realize on our refined products. the measure of the difference between market prices for refined products and crude oil, or crack spread, is commonly used by the industry as a proxy for refining and marketing gross margins. historically, refining and marketing gross margins have been volatile, and we believe they will continue to be volatile. our margins from the sale of gasoline and other refined products are influenced by a number of conditions, including the price of crude oil. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all of the crude oil we refine. the price of crude oil and the price at which we can sell our refined products may fluctuate independently due to a variety of regional and global market conditions. any overall change in crack spreads will impact our refining and marketing gross margins. many of the factors influencing a change in crack spreads and refining and marketing gross margins are beyond our control. these factors include: worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for crude oil and refined products; the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks to be manufactured into refined products; the prices realized for refined products; utilization rates of refineries; natural gas and electricity supply costs incurred by refineries; the ability of the members of opec to agree to and maintain production controls; political instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions; local weather conditions; seasonality of demand in our marketing area due to increased highway traffic in the spring and summer months; natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornadoes; the price and availability of alternative and competing forms of energy; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and local, regional, national and worldwide economic conditions. some of these factors can vary by region and may change quickly, adding to market volatility, while others may have longer-term effects. the longer-term effects of these and other factors on refining and marketing gross margins are uncertain. we purchase our crude oil and other refinery feedstocks weeks before we refine them and sell the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. we also purchase refined products manufactured by others for resale to our customers. price changes during the periods between purchasing and reselling those refined products also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. lower refining and marketing gross margins may reduce the amount of refined products we produce, which may reduce our revenues, income from operations and cash flows. significant reductions in refining and marketing gross margins could require us to reduce our capital expenditures, impair the carrying value of our assets (such as property, plant and equipment, inventory or goodwill), decrease or eliminate our share repurchase activity and our base dividend. 29 table of contents our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. failure to manage risks associated with business interruptions could adversely impact our operations, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to business interruptions due to scheduled refinery turnarounds, unplanned maintenance or unplanned events such as explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents, power outages, severe weather, labor disputes, or other natural or man-made disasters, such as acts of terrorism. for example, pipelines provide a nearly-exclusive form of transportation of crude oil to, or refined products from, some of our refineries. in such instances, a prolonged interruption in service of such a pipeline could materially and adversely affect the operations, profitability and cash flows of the impacted refinery. explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents involving our assets or operations could result in serious personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property and equipment, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us. damages resulting from an incident involving any of our assets or operations may result in our being named as a defendant in one or more lawsuits asserting potentially substantial claims or in our being assessed potentially substantial fines by governmental authorities. we do not insure against all potential losses, and, therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected liabilities and increased costs. we maintain insurance coverage in amounts we believe to be prudent against many, but not all, potential liabilities arising from operating hazards. uninsured liabilities arising from operating hazards, including but not limited to, explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents involving our assets or operations, could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. historically, we also have maintained insurance coverage for physical damage and resulting business interruption to our major facilities, with significant self-insured retentions. in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance of the types and amounts we desire at reasonable rates. we rely on the performance of our information technology systems, the failure of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are heavily dependent on our information technology systems and network infrastructure and maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. these information systems involve data network and telecommunications, internet access and website functionality, and various computer hardware equipment and software applications, including those that are critical to the safe operation of our business. these systems and infrastructure are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources including natural disasters, software viruses or other malware, power failures, cyber-attacks and other events. we also face various other cyber-security threats, including threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable. to protect against such attempts of unauthorized access or attack, we have implemented infrastructure protection technologies and disaster recovery plans. there can be no guarantee such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be effective. the retail market is diverse and highly competitive, and very aggressive competition could adversely impact our business. we face strong competition in the market for the sale of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. our competitors include outlets owned or operated by fully integrated major oil companies or their dealers or jobbers, and other well-recognized national or regional retail outlets, often selling gasoline or merchandise at very competitive prices. several non-traditional retailers such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants are in the retail business. these non-traditional gasoline retailers have obtained a significant share of the transportation fuels market and we expect their market share to grow. because of their diversity, integration of operations, experienced management and greater financial resources, these companies may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions or levels of low or no profitability in the retail segment of the market. in addition, these retailers may use promotional pricing or discounts, both at the pump and in the store, to encourage in-store merchandise sales. these activities by our competitors could pressure us to offer similar discounts, adversely affecting our profit margins. additionally, the loss of market share by our convenience stores to these and other retailers relating to either gasoline or merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the development, availability and marketing of alternative and competing fuels in the retail market could adversely impact our business. we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel needs of our consumers. increased competition from these alternatives as a result of governmental regulations, technological advances and consumer demand could have an impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability. 30 table of contents we are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil and refined products. we utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil and refined products to and from our refineries. in addition to our own operational risks discussed above, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines, railways or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations or third-party actions. a prolonged disruption of the ability of the pipelines, railways or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products to or from one or more of our refineries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may incur losses to our business as a result of our forward-contract activities and derivative transactions. we currently use commodity derivative instruments, and we expect to enter into these types of transactions in the future. a failure of a futures commission merchant or counterparty to perform would affect these transactions. to the extent the instruments we utilize to manage these exposures are not effective, we may incur losses related to the ineffective portion of the derivative transaction or costs related to moving the derivative positions to another futures commission merchant or counterparty once a failure has occurred. we have significant debt obligations; therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed by a deterioration of our credit profile, a decrease in debt capacity or unsecured commercial credit available to us, or by factors adversely affecting credit markets generally. at december 31, 2016 , our total debt obligations for borrowed money and capital lease obligations were $11.1 billion , including $4.9 billion of obligations of mplx. we may incur substantial additional debt obligations in the future. our indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could have material adverse consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends and other purposes. a decrease in our debt or commercial credit capacity, including unsecured credit extended by third-party suppliers, or a deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and/or limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have a trade receivables securitization facility that provides liquidity of up to $750 million depending on the amount of eligible domestic trade accounts receivables. in periods of lower prices, we may not have sufficient eligible accounts receivables to support full availability of this facility. historic or current operations could subject us to significant legal liability or restrict our ability to operate. we currently are defending litigation and anticipate we will be required to defend new litigation in the future. our operations, including those of mplx, and those of our predecessors could expose us to litigation and civil claims by private plaintiffs for alleged damages related to contamination of the environment or personal injuries caused by releases of hazardous substances from our facilities, products liability, consumer credit or privacy laws, product pricing or antitrust laws or any other laws or regulations that apply to our operations. while an adverse outcome in most litigation matters would not be expected to be material to us, in class-action litigation, large classes of plaintiffs may allege damages relating to extended periods of time or other alleged facts and circumstances that could increase the amount of potential damages. attorneys general and other government officials may pursue litigation in which they seek to recover civil damages from companies on behalf of a state or its citizens for a variety of claims, including violation of consumer protection and product pricing laws or natural resources damages. we are defending litigation of that type and anticipate that we will be required to defend new litigation of that type in the future. if we are not able to successfully defend such litigation, it may result in liability to our company that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we do not have insurance covering all of these potential liabilities. in addition to substantial liability, plaintiffs in litigation may also seek injunctive relief 31 table of contents which, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a portion of our workforce is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. approximately 36 percent of our refining employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. certain hourly employees at our canton, catlettsburg, galveston bay and texas city refineries are represented by the united steel, paper and forestry, rubber, manufacturing, energy, allied industrial and service workers union under labor agreements that are due to expire in 2019. the international brotherhood of teamsters represents certain hourly employees at our detroit refinery under a labor agreement that is also scheduled to expire in 2019. in addition, they represent certain hourly employees at speedway under agreements that cover certain outlets in new york and new jersey that expire on march 14, 2019 and june 30, 2019, respectively. these contracts may be renewed at an increased cost to us. in addition, we have experienced, or may experience, work stoppages as a result of labor disagreements. any prolonged work stoppages disrupting operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a publicly traded master limited partnership, mplx, which may involve a greater exposure to certain legal liabilities than existed under our historic business operations. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of mplx, a publicly traded master limited partnership. our control of the general partner of mplx may increase the possibility of claims of breach of fiduciary duties including claims of conflicts of interest related to mplx. any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if foreign investment in us or mplx exceeds certain levels, mplx could be prohibited from operating inland river vessels, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the shipping act of 1916 and merchant marine act of 1920, which we refer to collectively as the maritime laws, generally require that vessels engaged in u.s. coastwise trade be owned by u.s. citizens. among other requirements to establish citizenship, entities that own such vessels must be owned at least 75 percent by u.s. citizens. if we fail to maintain compliance with the maritime laws, mplx would be prohibited from operating vessels in the u.s. inland waters. such a prohibition could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to certain continuing contingent liabilities of marathon oil relating to taxes and other matters and to potential liabilities pursuant to the tax sharing agreement and separation and distribution agreement we entered into with marathon oil that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. although the spinoff occurred in mid-2011, certain liabilities of marathon oil could become our obligations. for example, under the internal revenue code of 1986 (the code ) and related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the spinoff is jointly and severally liable for the federal income tax liability of the entire marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. in connection with the spinoff, we entered into a tax sharing agreement with marathon oil that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group between us and marathon oil. however, if marathon oil is unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes. other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans as well as other contingent liabilities. also pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, following the spinoff we are responsible generally for all taxes attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries, whether accruing before, on or after the spinoff. we also agreed to be responsible for, and indemnify marathon oil with respect to, all taxes arising as a result of the spinoff (or certain internal restructuring transactions) failing to qualify as transactions under sections 368(a) and 355 of the code for u.s. federal income tax purposes to the extent such tax liability arises as a result of any breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or other obligation by us or certain affiliates made in connection with the issuance of the private letter ruling relating to the spinoff or in the tax sharing agreement. in addition, we agreed to indemnify marathon oil for specified tax-related liabilities associated with our 2005 acquisition of the minority interest in our refining joint venture from ashland inc. our indemnification obligations to marathon oil and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited or subject to any cap. if we are required to indemnify marathon oil and its subsidiaries and their respective officers and directors under the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. at this time, we cannot precisely quantify the amount of these liabilities that have been assumed pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, and there can be no assurances as to their final amounts. 32 table of contents also, in connection with the spinoff, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with marathon oil that provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions that were required to affect the spinoff, certain conditions to the spinoff and provisions governing the relationship between our company and marathon oil with respect to and resulting from the spinoff. among other things, the separation and distribution agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our downstream business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the spinoff, as well as certain obligations of marathon oil assumed by us. our obligations to indemnify marathon oil under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement could subject us to substantial liabilities. marathon oil also agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. however, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities retained by marathon oil, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from marathon oil will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, that marathon oil will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations or that marathon oil's insurers will cover us for liabilities associated with occurrences prior to the spinoff. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from marathon oil or its insurers any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. the tax liabilities and underlying liabilities in the event marathon oil is unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations described in this paragraph could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. we may not realize the growth opportunities and commercial synergies that are anticipated from the markwest merger. the benefits that are expected to result from the markwest merger will depend, in part, on mplx's ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and commercial synergies as a result of the markwest merger. mplx's success in realizing these growth opportunities and commercial synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of mplx and markwest. there is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of integrating an acquisition as sizable as markwest. the process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of mplx and markwest. members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our company, maintain relationships with employees, customers or suppliers, attract new customers and develop new strategies. if senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. there can be no assurance that mplx will successfully or cost-effectively integrate markwest. the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if mplx is able to integrate markwest successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities and commercial synergies that we currently expect from this integration, and we cannot guarantee that these benefits will be achieved within anticipated time frames or at all. for example, mplx may not be able to eliminate duplicative costs. moreover, mplx may incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of markwest. while it is anticipated that certain expenses will be incurred to achieve commercial synergies, such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately, and may exceed current estimates. accordingly, the benefits from the markwest merger may be offset by costs incurred to, or delays in, integrating the businesses. significant acquisitions in the future will involve the integration of new assets or businesses and present substantial risks that could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows . significant future transactions involving the addition of new assets or businesses will present potential risks, which may include, among others: inaccurate assumptions about future synergies, revenues, capital expenditures and operating costs; an inability to successfully integrate assets or businesses we acquire; a decrease in our liquidity resulting from using a portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity under our revolving credit agreement to finance transactions; a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance transactions; the assumption of unknown environmental and other liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and the incurrence of other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. 33 table of contents a significant decrease or delay in oil and natural gas production in mplx's areas of operation, whether due to sustained declines in oil, natural gas and ngl prices, natural declines in well production, or otherwise, may adversely affect mplx's business, results of operations and financial condition, and could reduce mplx's ability to make distributions to us. a significant portion of mplx's operations are dependent upon production from oil and natural gas reserves and wells, which will naturally decline over time, which means that mplx's cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. to maintain or increase throughput levels and the utilization rate of mplx's facilities, mplx must continually obtain new oil, natural gas, ngl and refined product supplies, which depends in part on the level of successful drilling activity near its facilities. we have no control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of mplx's operations, the amount of reserves associated with the wells or the rate at which production from a well will decline. in addition, we have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, drilling costs per mcf or barrel, demand for hydrocarbons, operational challenges, access to downstream markets, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations and the availability and cost of capital. because of these factors, even if new oil or natural gas reserves are discovered in areas served by mplx assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. if mplx is not able to obtain new supplies of oil or natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells, throughput on mplx pipelines and the utilization rates of mplx facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on mplx's business, results of operations and financial condition and could reduce mplx's ability to make distributions to us. decreases in energy prices can decrease drilling activity, production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. the prices for oil, natural gas and ngls depend upon factors beyond our control, including global and local demand, production levels, changes in interstate pipeline gas quality specifications, imports and exports, seasonality and weather conditions, economic and political conditions domestically and internationally and governmental regulations. sustained periods of low prices could result in producers also significantly curtailing or limiting their oil and gas drilling operations which could substantially delay the production and delivery of volumes of oil, gas and ngls to mplx's facilities and adversely affect mplx's revenues and cash available for distribution to us. this impact may also be exacerbated due to the extent of mplx's commodity-based contracts, which are more directly impacted by changes in gas and ngl prices than its fee-based contracts due to frac spread exposure and may result in operating losses when natural gas becomes more expensive on a btu equivalent basis than ngl products. in addition, mplx's purchase and resale of gas and ngls in the ordinary course exposes mplx to significant risk of volatility in gas or ngl prices due to the potential difference in the time of the purchases and sales and the potential difference in the price associated with each transaction, and direct exposure may also occur naturally as a result of mplx's production processes. the significant fluctuation and decline in natural gas, ngl and oil prices currently occurring has adversely impacted mplx's unit price, thereby increasing its distribution yield and cost of capital. such impacts could adversely impact mplx's ability to execute its long term organic growth projects, satisfy obligations to its customers and make distributions to unitholders at intended levels, and may also result in non-cash impairments of long-lived assets or goodwill or other-than-temporary non-cash impairments of our equity method investments. our recently announced strategic actions designed to enhance shareholder value may not deliver the anticipated benefits. in january 2017, we announced updates to our previously announced strategic actions designed to enhance shareholder value, including the significant acceleration of dropdowns of midstream assets into mplx and the expected exchange of our economic interests in the general partner, including incentive distribution rights, for newly issued mplx common units in conjunction with the completion of such dropdowns. we may not be able to achieve the anticipated benefits of these actions as we may not be able to implement the announced strategic actions due to: the inability to agree with the mplx conflicts committee with respect to the value attributed to assets identified for dropdown; the adequacy of mplx's capital and liquidity, including, but not limited to, mplx's access to debt to fund the anticipated dropdowns on commercially reasonable terms; and the time, cost and ability to obtain requisite approvals and regulatory clearances, including tax clearance. in addition, the market price of our common stock could decline if securities or industry analysts or our investors disagree with these strategic actions or the way we implement such actions. accordingly, even if we are able to implement some or all of the strategic actions successfully, there is no assurance that these actions will be reflected in the market price of our stock to the extent currently anticipated by management. 34 table of contents significant stockholders may attempt to effect changes at our company or acquire control over our company, which could impact the pursuit of business strategies and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our stockholders may from time to time engage in proxy solicitations, advance stockholder proposals or otherwise attempt to affect changes or acquire control over our company. campaigns by stockholders to effect changes at publicly traded companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase short-term stockholder value through actions such as financial restructuring, increased debt, special dividends, stock repurchases or sales of assets or the entire company. responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our board of directors and senior management from the management of our operations and the pursuit of our business strategies. as a result, stockholder campaigns could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. risks relating to our industry changes in environmental or other laws or regulations may reduce our refining and marketing gross margin and may result in substantial capital expenditures and operating costs that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. various laws and regulations are expected to impose increasingly stringent and costly requirements on our operations, which may reduce our refining and marketing gross margin. laws and regulations expected to become more stringent relate to the following: the emission or discharge of materials into the environment, solid and hazardous waste management, pollution prevention, greenhouse gas emissions, characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, public and employee safety and health, and facility security. the specific impact of laws and regulations on us and our competitors may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of operating facilities, marketing areas, crude oil and feedstock sources and production processes. we may be required to make expenditures to modify operations, install pollution control equipment, perform site cleanups or curtail operations that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. because the issue of climate change continues to receive scientific and political attention, there is the potential for further laws and regulations that could affect our operations. the u.s. pledge in 2009, as part of the copenhagen accord, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020 remains in effect and was reaffirmed in the president's 2013 climate action plan. the 2015 paris un climate change conference agreement aims to hold the increase in the global average temperature to well below two degrees celsius above pre-industrial levels. in november 2016, the obama administration released its strategy for deep de-carbonization, which aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to 80 percent below 2005 levels by 2050. the u.s. climate change strategy and implementation of that strategy through legislation and regulation may change under the new administration; therefore, the impact to our industry and operations due to greenhouse gas regulation is unknown at this time. in october 2015, the epa finalized regulations to reduce carbon emissions from new, modified, and reconstructed power plants (new source performance standards) and from existing power plants (existing source performance standards; also known as the clean power plan). through the regulations, the epa is requiring a reduction in nationwide carbon emissions from the power generation sector by 32 percent below 2005 levels. these standards could increase our electricity costs and potentially reduce the reliability of our electricity supply. in february 2016, the u.s. supreme court stayed implementation of the clean power plan until the legal challenge filed by several states and industry could be heard by the courts. 35 table of contents the obama administration developed the social cost of carbon ( scc ), which is to be used by the epa and other federal agencies in regulatory cost-benefit analyses to take into account alleged broad economic consequences associated with changes to emissions of greenhouse gases. the scc was first issued in 2010. in 2013, the obama administration significantly increased the estimate to $36 per ton. in response to the regulated community and congress' critiques of how the scc was developed, the office of management and budget ( omb ) provided an opportunity to comment on the scc. in july 2015, the omb issued a response to comments and a revised technical support document explaining adjustments to the scc calculations. additionally, in august 2016, the white house council on environmental quality issued its final guidance to federal agencies on assessing a project's impact to climate change under the national environmental policy act by estimating the greenhouse gas emissions from the project, including using the scc when analyzing costs and benefits of a project. while the impact of a higher scc in future regulations is not known at this time, it may result in increased costs to our operations. an article on the social cost of methane has also been published and was used by the epa in its regulatory impact analysis of the proposed emission standards for new and modified sources in the oil and natural gas sector. these regulations were proposed pursuant to president obama's strategy to reduce methane emissions as part of the administration's efforts to reduce methane emissions from the oil and gas sector by up to 45 percent from 2012 levels by 2025. the finalization of these regulations could directly impact mplx by creating delays in the construction and installation of new facilities due to more stringent permitting requirements, increasing costs to reduce ghg emissions or requiring aggregation of emissions from separate facilities for permitting purposes. these regulations may also impact us by increasing the costs of domestic crude supplies. in the absence of federal legislation or regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, states may become more active in regulating greenhouse gas emissions. these measures include state actions to develop statewide or regional programs to impose emission reductions. these measures may also include low carbon fuel standards, such as the california program. in addition, private party litigation is pending against federal and certain state governmental entities seeking additional greenhouse gas emission reductions beyond those currently being undertaken. these actions could result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, capital expenditures to install new emission controls and costs to administer any carbon trading or tax programs implemented. although uncertain, these developments could increase our costs, reduce the demand for the products we sell and create delays in our obtaining air pollution permits for new or modified facilities. in october 2015, the epa reduced the primary (health) ozone national ambient air quality standards ( naaqs ) to 70 ppb from the prior ozone level of 75 ppb. the epa is expected to finalize new ozone attainment and nonattainment designations by late 2017, using 2014-2016 air quality monitor data. the lower primary ozone standard may not by attainable in some areas and could result in the cancellation or delay of capital projects at our facilities or increased costs related to an increase in the production of low reid vapor pressure (rvp) gasoline. the eisa establishes increases in fuel mileage standards and contains a second renewable fuel standard commonly referred to as rfs2. increases in fuel mileage standards and the increased use of renewable fuels (including ethanol and advanced biofuels) may reduce demand for refined products. governmental regulations encouraging the use of new or alternative fuels could also pose a competitive threat to our operations. specifically, the rfs2 required the total volume of renewable transportation fuels sold or introduced annually in the u.s. to reach 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. the rfs2 presents production and logistics challenges for both the renewable fuels and petroleum refining industries, and may continue to require additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. gasoline consumption has been lower than forecasted by the epa, which has led to concerns that the renewable fuel volumes may not be met. the 2017 renewable fuel standards were finalized and published on november 23, 2016. the final standards are lower than the statutory requirements but nevertheless result in volumes that breach the ethanol blendwall. the advanced biofuels program, a subset of the rfs2 requirements, creates uncertainties and presents challenges of supply, and may require that we and other refiners and other obligated parties purchase credits from the epa to meet our obligations. tax incentives and other subsidies have also made renewable fuels more competitive with refined products than they otherwise would have been, which may further reduce refined product margins. the tax incentives and subsidies are causing uncertainties because they have expired and been reinstituted retroactively. the biodiesel credit, for example, expired at the end of 2016 and there is uncertainty if it will be reinstituted. on march 3, 2014, the epa signed the final tier 3 fuel standards. the final tier 3 fuel standards require, among other things, a lower annual average sulfur level in gasoline to no more than 10 parts ppm beginning in calendar year 2017. in addition, gasoline refiners and importers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 80 ppm, while retailers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 95 ppm. we anticipate that we will spend an estimated $650 million between 2014 and 2019 for capital expenditures necessary to comply with these standards, which includes estimated capital expenditures of approximately $200 million in 2017. 36 table of contents federal, state and local legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could delay or impede producer's gas production or result in reduced volumes available for mplx to gather, process and fractionate. mplx does not conduct hydraulic fracturing operations, but it does provide gathering, processing and fractionation services with respect to natural gas and natural gas liquids produced by its customers as a result of such operations. if federal, state or local laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such legal requirements could make it more difficult to complete natural gas wells in shale formations and increase producers' costs of compliance. severe weather events may adversely affect our facilities and ongoing operations. for a variety of reasons, natural and/or anthropogenic, some members of the scientific community believe that climate changes could occur that could have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts and floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. plans we may have to expand existing assets or construct new assets are subject to risks associated with societal and political pressures and other forms of opposition to the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels. such risks could adversely impact our business and ability to realize certain growth strategies. our anticipated growth and planned expenditures are based upon the assumption that societal sentiment will continue to enable and existing regulations will remain intact to allow for the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels. a portion of our growth strategy is dependent on our ability to expand existing assets and to construct additional assets. however, policy decisions relating to the production, refining, transportation and marketing of carbon-based fuels are subject to political pressures and the influence of environmental and other special interest groups. the construction of new refinery processing units or crude oil or refined products pipelines, or the extension or expansion of existing assets, involve numerous political and legal uncertainties, many of which may cause significant delays or cost increases and most of which are beyond our control. delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities (including improvements and repairs to our existing facilities) could adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results, thereby limiting our ability to grow and generate cash flows. large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting project returns. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we produce. such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: denial of or delay in receiving requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of components or construction materials; adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors or suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or subcontractors. any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our ongoing capital projects. if we were unable to make up the delays associated with such factors or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 37 table of contents the availability of crude oil and increases in crude oil prices may reduce profitability and refining and marketing gross margins. the profitability of our operations depends largely on the difference between the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks we refine and the selling prices we obtain for refined products. a portion of our crude oil is purchased from various foreign national oil companies, producing companies and trading companies, including suppliers from canada, the middle east and various other international locations. the market for crude oil and other feedstocks is largely a world market. we are, therefore, subject to the attendant political, geographic and economic risks of such a market. if one or more major supply sources were temporarily or permanently eliminated, we believe adequate alternative supplies of crude oil would be available, but it is possible we would be unable to find alternative sources of supply. if we are unable to obtain adequate crude oil volumes or are able to obtain such volumes only at unfavorable prices, our operations, sales of refined products and refining and marketing gross margins could be adversely affected, materially and adversely impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. worldwide political and economic developments could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition to impacting crude oil and other feedstock supplies, political and economic factors in global markets could have a material adverse effect on us in other ways. hostilities in the middle east or the occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economies of the u.s. and other developed countries. a lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could cause our revenues and margins to decline and limit our future growth prospects. these risks could lead to increased volatility in prices for refined products, ngls and natural gas. additionally, these risks could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult and/or costly for us to access capital and to obtain the insurance coverage that we consider adequate. additionally, tax policy, legislative or regulatory action and commercial restrictions could reduce our operating profitability. for example, the u.s. government could prevent or restrict exports of refined products, ngls, natural gas or the conduct of business with certain foreign countries. compliance with and changes in tax laws could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal and state income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales and use, payroll, franchise, withholding and property taxes. new tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations could result in increased expenditures by us for tax liabilities in the future and could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for example, the u.s. house of representatives republican leadership released a tax reform blueprint proposing the replacement of the current corporate income tax with a destination-based cash flow tax. because the value of our crude oil imports exceed the value of our refined product exports, this proposal could have a material adverse effect on our u.s. income tax liabilities. additionally, many tax liabilities are subject to periodic audits by taxing authorities, and such audits could subject us to interest and penalties. terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities or that impact our customers or the markets we serve could adversely affect our business. the u.s. government has issued warnings that energy assets in general, including the nation's refining, pipeline and terminal infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. the threat of terrorist attacks has subjected our operations to increased risks. any future terrorist attacks on our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. similarly, any future terrorist attacks that severely disrupt the markets we serve could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. risks relating to ownership of our common stock provisions in our corporate governance documents could operate to delay or prevent a change in control of our company, dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our capital stock or affect its liquidity. the existence of some provisions within our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us that a stockholder may consider favorable. these include provisions: providing that our board of directors fixes the number of members of the board; providing for the division of our board of directors into three classes with staggered terms; providing that only our board of directors may fill board vacancies; limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring stockholder action to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; 38 table of contents establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; establishing supermajority vote requirements for certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and stockholder proposals for amendments to our amended and restated bylaws; providing that our directors may only be removed for cause; authorizing a large number of shares of common stock that are not yet issued, which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of our management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us; and authorizing the issuance of blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt. we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors time to assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. however, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition. our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. the terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. for example, we could grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our board of directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock. finally, to facilitate compliance with the maritime laws, our restated certificate of incorporation limits the aggregate percentage ownership by non-u.s. citizens of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock to 23 percent of the outstanding shares. we may prohibit transfers that would cause ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock by non-u.s. citizens to exceed 23 percent. our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to effect any and all measures necessary or desirable to monitor and limit foreign ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock. these limitations could have an adverse impact on the liquidity of the market for our common stock if holders are unable to transfer shares to non-u.s. citizens due to the limitations on ownership by non-u.s. citizens. any such limitation on the liquidity of the market for our common stock could adversely impact the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 82 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, includes forward-looking statements. you can identify our forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, believe, design, estimate, objective, expect, forecast, outlook, goal, guidance, imply, intend, plan, predict, prospective, project, opportunity, potential, position, pursue, strategy, seek, target, could, may, should, would, will or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. in accordance with safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to, or statements that are subject to risks, contingencies or uncertainties that relate to: future levels of revenues, refining and marketing gross margins, operating costs, retail gasoline and distillate gross margins, merchandise margins, income from operations, net income or earnings per share; anticipated volumes of feedstock, throughput, sales or shipments of refined products; anticipated levels of regional, national and worldwide prices of crude oil, natural gas, ngls and refined products; anticipated levels of crude oil and refined product inventories; future levels of capital, environmental or maintenance expenditures, general and administrative and other expenses; the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital or maintenance projects; business strategies, growth opportunities and expected investments, including strategic initiatives and actions, as well as planned equity investments in pipeline projects; expectations regarding the acquisition or divestiture of assets as well as the strategic initiatives discussed herein, such as the proposed accelerated dropdown of assets to mplx lp and plans to exchange our economic interest in the general partner, including idrs, for newly issued mplx lp common units; our share repurchase authorizations, including the timing and amounts of any common stock repurchases; the adequacy of our capital resources and liquidity, including but not limited to, availability of sufficient cash flow to execute our business plan; the effect of restructuring or reorganization of business components; the potential effects of judicial or other proceedings on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; and the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, activist investors or federal, foreign, state or local regulatory authorities or plaintiffs in litigation. we have based our forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and our company. we caution that these statements are not guarantees of future performance, and you should not rely unduly on them, as they involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we cannot predict. in addition, we have based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. while our management considers these assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. accordingly, our actual results may differ materially from the future performance that we have expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements. differences between actual results and any future performance suggested in our forward-looking statements could result from a variety of factors, including the following: volatility or degradation in general economic, market, industry or business conditions; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of natural gas, ngls and crude oil and other feedstocks; the ability of the members of the opec to agree on and to influence crude oil price and production controls; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of refined products such as gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, home heating oil and petrochemicals; foreign imports and exports of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and ngls; refining industry overcapacity or under capacity; changes in producer customers' drilling plans or in volumes of throughput of crude oil, natural gas, ngls, refined products or other hydrocarbon-based products; 2 table of contents changes in the cost or availability of third-party vessels, pipelines, railcars and other means of transportation for crude oil, natural gas, ngls, feedstocks and refined products; changes to the expected construction costs and timing of projects; the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels and alternative-fuel vehicles and laws mandating such fuels or vehicles; fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products, natural gas and ngls, including seasonal fluctuations; political and economic conditions in nations that consume refined products, natural gas and ngls, including the united states, and in crude oil producing regions, including the middle east, africa, canada and south america; actions taken by our competitors, including pricing adjustments, expansion of retail activities, the expansion and retirement of refining capacity and the expansion and retirement of pipeline capacity, processing, fractionation and treating facilities in response to market conditions; completion of pipeline projects within the united states; changes in fuel and utility costs for our facilities; failure to realize the benefits projected for capital projects, or cost overruns associated with such projects; modifications to mplx lp earnings and distribution growth objectives; the ability to successfully implement growth opportunities, including strategic initiatives and actions; the time, costs and ability to obtain regulatory or other approvals, waivers or consents required to consummate strategic actions discussed herein, such as the proposed accelerated dropdown of assets to mplx lp; the risk that the synergies from the markwest merger (defined below) may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; risks and uncertainties associated with intangible assets, including any future goodwill or intangible assets impairment charges; the ability to realize the strategic benefits of joint venture opportunities; accidents or other unscheduled shutdowns affecting our refineries, machinery, pipelines, processing, fractionation and treating facilities or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers; unusual weather conditions and natural disasters, which can unforeseeably affect the price or availability of crude oil and other feedstocks and refined products; acts of war, terrorism or civil unrest that could impair our ability to produce refined products, receive feedstocks or to gather, process, fractionate or transport crude oil, natural gas, ngls or refined products; state and federal environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, including the cost of compliance with the renewable fuel standard program; adverse changes in laws including with respect to tax and regulatory matters; rulings, judgments or settlements and related expenses in litigation or other legal, tax or regulatory matters, including unexpected environmental remediation costs, in excess of any reserves or insurance coverage; political pressure and influence of environmental groups upon policies and decisions related to the production, gathering, refining, processing, fractionation, transportation and marketing of crude oil or other feedstocks, refined products, natural gas, ngls or other hydrocarbon-based products; labor and material shortages; the maintenance of satisfactory relationships with labor unions and joint venture partners; the ability and willingness of parties with whom we have material relationships to perform their obligations to us; the market price of our common stock and its impact on our share repurchase authorizations; changes in the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and trade credit, changes in the availability of unsecured credit and changes affecting the credit markets generally; capital market conditions and our ability to raise adequate capital to execute our business plan, including our recently announced strategic actions; the costs, disruption and diversion of management's attention associated with campaigns commenced by activist investors; and the other factors described in item 1a. risk factors. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements except to the extent required by applicable law. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business overview marathon petroleum corporation ( mpc ) has 129 years of experience in the energy business with roots tracing back to the formation of the ohio oil company in 1887. we are one of the largest independent petroleum product refining, marketing, retail and transportation businesses in the united states and the largest east of the mississippi. with the merger of mplx lp ( mplx ), the midstream master limited partnership sponsored by mpc, and markwest energy partners, l.p. ( markwest ) effective december 4, 2015 (the markwest merger ), we are one of the largest natural gas processors in the united states and the largest processor and fractionator in the marcellus and utica shale regions. our operations consist of three reportable operating segments: refining &amp; marketing; speedway; and midstream . each of these segments is organized and managed based upon the nature of the products and services it offers. refining &amp; marketing refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our seven refineries in the gulf coast and midwest regions of the united states, purchases refined products and ethanol for resale and distributes refined products through various means, including terminals and trucks that we own or operate. we sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, buyers on the spot market, our speedway business segment and to independent entrepreneurs who operate marathon retail outlets. speedway sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market in the midwest, east coast and southeast regions of the united states. midstream includes the operations of mplx and certain other related operations. the midstream segment gathers, processes and transports natural gas; gathers, transports, fractionates, stores and markets ngls and transports and stores crude oil and refined products. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk. 69 table of contents capital resources our liquidity totaled $4.8 billion at december 31, 2016 consisting of: december 31, 2016 (in millions) total capacity outstanding borrowings available capacity bank revolving credit facility (a) $ 2,500 $ $ 2,500 364 day bank revolving credit facility 1,000 1,000 trade receivables facility (b) 684 684 total $ 4,184 $ $ 4,184 cash and cash equivalents (c) 653 total liquidity $ 4,837 (a) excludes mplx's $2 billion bank revolving credit facility, which had no borrowings and $3 million of letters of credit outstanding as of december 31, 2016 . (b) availability under our $750 million trade receivables facility is a function of refined product selling prices. as of january 31, 2017, eligible trade receivables supported borrowings of $750 million. (c) excludes $234 million of mplx cash and cash equivalents. because of the alternatives available to us, including internally generated cash flow and access to capital markets, including a commercial paper program, we believe that our short-term and long-term liquidity is adequate to fund not only our current operations, but also our near-term and long-term funding requirements, including capital spending programs, the repurchase of shares of our common stock, dividend payments, defined benefit plan contributions, repayment of debt maturities and other amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies. as discussed in the strategic actions to enhance shareholder value section in the corporate overview, we expect mplx to finance the planned dropdown transactions with debt and equity in approximately equal proportions in the aggregate for all planned dropdowns of assets. the equity financing will be funded through mplx common units issued to us. in conjunction with the completion of the dropdowns, we also expect to exchange our economic interests in the general partner of mplx, including incentive distribution rights, for newly issued mplx common units. cash proceeds from the dropdowns and ongoing mplx common unit distributions to us are expected to fund the substantial ongoing return of capital to mpc shareholders in a manner consistent with maintaining an investment-grade credit profile. see discussion of the february 2017 issuance of mplx senior notes due 2027 and 2047 under the mplx lp section of the executive summary. commercial paper on february 26, 2016, we established a commercial paper program that allows us to have a maximum of $2 billion in commercial paper outstanding, with maturities up to 397 days from the date of issuance. we do not intend to have outstanding commercial paper borrowings in excess of available capacity under our bank revolving credit facilities. at december 31, 2016 , we had no amounts outstanding under the commercial paper program. mpc bank revolving credit facility on july 20, 2016, we entered into a credit agreement with a syndicate of lenders to replace our existing mpc bank revolving credit facility due in 2017. the new agreement provides for a four -year $2.5 billion bank revolving credit facility ( four-year revolving credit facility ) maturing on july 20, 2020 . additionally, we entered into a 364 -day $1 billion bank revolving credit facility maturing on july 19, 2017 . the financial covenants contained in these agreements remain the same as under the previous bank revolving credit facility. our four-year revolving credit facility includes letter of credit issuing capacity of up to $2.0 billion and swingline loan capacity of up to $100 million . we may increase our borrowing capacity under our four-year revolving credit facility by up to an additional $500 million , subject to certain conditions including the consent of the lenders whose commitments would be increased. in addition, the maturity date of the four-year revolving credit facility may be extended for up to two additional one -year periods subject to the approval of lenders holding a majority of the commitments then outstanding, provided that the commitments of any non-consenting lenders will terminate on the then-effective maturity date. there were no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding at december 31, 2016 . trade receivables facility on july 20, 2016, we amended our trade receivables facility to, among other things, reduce the capacity from $1 billion to $750 million and to extend the maturity date to july 19, 2019 . the reduction in capacity reflects the lower refined product price environment. 70 table of contents as of december 31, 2016 , eligible trade receivables supported borrowings of $684 million . there were no borrowings outstanding at december 31, 2016 . availability under our trade receivables facility is a function of refined product selling prices. mplx credit agreement mplx is party to a credit agreement, dated as of november 20, 2014, and amended as of october 27, 2015 ( mplx credit agreement ), providing for a $2 billion bank revolving credit facility with a maturity date of december 4, 2020 and an outstanding $250 million term loan facility with a maturity date of november 20, 2019 . the mplx credit agreement includes letter of credit issuing capacity of up to $250 million and swingline loan capacity of up to $100 million . the revolving borrowing capacity under the mplx credit agreement may be increased by up to an additional $500 million , subject to certain conditions, including the consent of the lenders whose commitments would increase. in addition, the maturity date of the bank revolving credit facility may be extended from time-to-time during its term to a date that is one year after the then-effective date, subject to the approval of lenders holding the majority of the loans and commitments then outstanding, provided that the commitments of any non-consenting lenders will be terminated on the then-effective maturity date. the maturity date for the term loan facility may be extended for up to two additional one -year periods subject to the consent of the lenders holding a majority of the outstanding term loan borrowings, provided that the portion of the term loan borrowings held by any non-consenting lenders will continue to be due and payable on the then-effective maturity date. during 2016 , mplx borrowed $434 million under the bank revolving credit facility, at an average interest rate of 1.9 percent , per annum, and repaid $1.31 billion of outstanding borrowings. at december 31, 2016 , mplx had no borrowings and $3 million of letters of credit outstanding under the bank revolving credit facility, resulting in total unused loan availability of $2.0 billion . see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. variable interest entities we evaluate all legal entities in which we hold an ownership or other pecuniary interest to determine if the entity is a vie. our interests in a vie are referred to as variable interests. variable interests can be contractual, ownership or other pecuniary interests in an entity that change with changes in the fair value of the vie's assets. when we conclude that we hold an interest in a vie we must determine if we are the entity's primary beneficiary. a primary beneficiary is deemed to have a controlling financial interest in a vie. this controlling financial interest is evidenced by both (a) the power to direct the activities of the vie that most significantly impact the vie's economic performance and (b) the obligation to absorb losses that could potentially be significant to the vie or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the vie. we consolidate any vie when we determine that we are the primary beneficiary. we must disclose the nature of any interests in a vie that is not consolidated. significant judgment is exercised in determining that a legal entity is a vie and in evaluating our interest in a vie. we use primarily a qualitative analysis to determine if an entity is a vie. we evaluate the entity's need for continuing financial support; the equity holder's lack of a controlling financial interest; and/or if an equity holder's voting interests are disproportionate to its obligation to absorb expected losses or receive residual returns. we evaluate our interests in a vie to determine whether we are the primary beneficiary. we use a primarily qualitative analysis to determine if we are deemed to have a controlling financial interest in the vie, either on a standalone basis or as part of a related party group. we continually monitor our interests in legal 79 table of contents entities for changes in the design or activities of an entity and changes in our interests, including our status as the primary beneficiary to determine if the changes require us to revise our previous conclusions. mplx is a vie because the limited partners of mplx do not have substantive kick-out or substantive participating rights over the general partner. we are the primary beneficiary of mplx because in addition to significant economic interest, we also have the power, through our 100 percent ownership of the general partner, to control the decisions that most significantly impact mplx. we therefore consolidate mplx and record a noncontrolling interest for the 74.5 percent interest owned by the public. markwest utica emg, a natural gas and ngl processing joint venture, is a vie; however, we are not considered to be the primary beneficiary. as a result, it is accounted for under the equity method. changes in the design or nature of the activities of this entity, or our involvement with the entity, may require us to reconsider our conclusions on the entity's status as a vie and/or our status as the primary beneficiary. such reconsideration requires significant judgment and understanding of the organization. this could result in the consolidation of the entity which would have a significant impact on our financial statements. ohio gathering is a subsidiary of markwest utica emg and is a vie. if we were to consolidate markwest utica emg, ohio gathering would need to be assessed for consolidation or deconsolidation. variable interest entities are discussed in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk general we are exposed to market risks related to the volatility of crude oil and refined product prices. we employ various strategies, including the use of commodity derivative instruments, to hedge the risks related to these price fluctuations. we are also exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. as of december 31, 2016 , we did not have any financial derivative instruments to hedge the risks related to interest rate fluctuations; however, we have used them in the past, and we continually monitor the market and our exposure and may enter into these agreements again in the future. we are at risk for changes in fair value of all of our derivative instruments; however, such risk should be mitigated by price or rate changes related to the underlying commodity or financial transaction. we believe that our use of derivative instruments, along with our risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose us to material adverse consequences. while the use of derivative instruments could materially affect our results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods, we believe that the use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity. seerisk factors 23 risk factors, item 3. legal proceedings, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, includes forward-looking statements. you can identify our forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, believe, could, design, estimate, expect, forecast, goal, guidance, imply, intend, may, objective, opportunity, outlook, plan, position, potential, predict, project, prospective, pursue, seek, should, strategy, target, will, would or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. in accordance with safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to, or statements that are subject to risks, contingencies or uncertainties that relate to: future levels of revenues, refining and marketing margins, operating costs, retail gasoline and distillate margins, merchandise margins, income from operations, net income or earnings per share; anticipated volumes of feedstock, throughput, sales or shipments of refined products; anticipated levels of regional, national and worldwide prices of crude oil, natural gas, ngls and refined products; anticipated levels of crude oil and refined product inventories; future levels of capital, environmental or maintenance expenditures, general and administrative and other expenses; the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital or maintenance projects; business strategies, growth opportunities and expected investments our share repurchase authorizations, including the timing and amounts of any common stock repurchases; the adequacy of our capital resources and liquidity, including but not limited to, availability of sufficient cash flow to execute our business plan; the effect of restructuring or reorganization of business components; the potential effects of judicial or other proceedings on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; and the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, activist investors or federal, foreign, state or local regulatory authorities or plaintiffs in litigation. we have based our forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and our company. we caution that these statements are not guarantees of future performance, and you should not rely unduly on them, as they involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we cannot predict. in addition, we have based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. while our management considers these assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. accordingly, our actual results may differ materially from the future performance that we have expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements. differences between actual results and any future performance suggested in our forward-looking statements could result from a variety of factors, including the following: volatility or degradation in general economic, market, industry or business conditions; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of natural gas, ngls and crude oil and other feedstocks; the ability of the members of the opec to agree on and to influence crude oil price and production controls; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of refined products such as gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, home heating oil and petrochemicals; foreign imports and exports of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and ngls; refining industry overcapacity or under capacity; changes in producer customers' drilling plans or in volumes of throughput of crude oil, natural gas, ngls, refined products or other hydrocarbon-based products; changes in the cost or availability of third-party vessels, pipelines, railcars and other means of transportation for crude oil, natural gas, ngls, feedstocks and refined products; changes to our capital budget, expected construction costs and timing of projects; 2 table of contents the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels and alternative-fuel vehicles and laws mandating such fuels or vehicles; fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products, natural gas and ngls, including seasonal fluctuations; political and economic conditions in nations that consume refined products, natural gas and ngls, including the united states, and in crude oil producing regions, including the middle east, africa, canada and south america; actions taken by our competitors, including pricing adjustments, expansion of retail activities, the expansion and retirement of refining capacity and the expansion and retirement of pipeline capacity, processing, fractionation and treating facilities in response to market conditions; completion of pipeline projects within the united states; changes in fuel and utility costs for our facilities; failure to realize the benefits projected for capital projects, or cost overruns associated with such projects; modifications to mplx lp earnings and distribution growth objectives; the ability to successfully implement growth opportunities, including strategic initiatives and actions; risks and uncertainties associated with intangible assets, including any future goodwill or intangible assets impairment charges; the ability to realize the strategic benefits of joint venture opportunities; accidents or other unscheduled shutdowns affecting our refineries, machinery, pipelines, processing, fractionation and treating facilities or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers; unusual weather conditions and natural disasters, which can unforeseeably affect the price or availability of crude oil and other feedstocks and refined products; acts of war, terrorism or civil unrest that could impair our ability to produce refined products, receive feedstocks or to gather, process, fractionate or transport crude oil, natural gas, ngls or refined products; state and federal environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, including the cost of compliance with the renewable fuel standard program; adverse changes in laws including with respect to tax and regulatory matters; rulings, judgments or settlements and related expenses in litigation or other legal, tax or regulatory matters, including unexpected environmental remediation costs, in excess of any reserves or insurance coverage; political pressure and influence of environmental groups upon policies and decisions related to the production, gathering, refining, processing, fractionation, transportation and marketing of crude oil or other feedstocks, refined products, natural gas, ngls or other hydrocarbon-based products; labor and material shortages; the maintenance of satisfactory relationships with labor unions and joint venture partners; the ability and willingness of parties with whom we have material relationships to perform their obligations to us; the market price of our common stock and its impact on our share repurchase authorizations; changes in the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and trade credit, changes in the availability of unsecured credit, changes affecting the credit markets generally and our ability to manage such changes; capital market conditions and our ability to raise adequate capital to execute our business plan; the costs, disruption and diversion of management's attention associated with campaigns commenced by activist investors; and the other factors described in item 1a. risk factors. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements except to the extent required by applicable law. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business overview marathon petroleum corporation ( mpc ) has 130 years of experience in the energy business with roots tracing back to the formation of the ohio oil company in 1887. we are one of the largest independent petroleum product refining, marketing, retail and transportation businesses in the united states and the largest east of the mississippi. we are one of the largest natural gas processors in the united states and the largest processor and fractionator in the marcellus and utica shale regions. our operations consist of three reportable operating segments: refining &amp; marketing; speedway; and midstream . each of these segments is organized and managed based upon the nature of the products and services it offers. refining &amp; marketing refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our six refineries in the gulf coast and midwest regions of the united states, purchases refined products and ethanol for resale and distributes refined products through various means, including pipeline and marine transportation, terminals and storage services provided by our midstream segment. we sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, buyers on the spot market, our speedway business segment and to independent entrepreneurs who operate marathon retail outlets. speedway sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market in the midwest, east coast and southeast regions of the united states. midstream gathers, processes and transports natural gas; gathers, transports, fractionates, stores and markets ngls; and transports and stores crude oil and refined products principally for the refining &amp; marketing segment via pipelines, terminals, towboats and barges. the midstream segment primarily reflects the results of mplx, our sponsored master limited partnership. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 10 for operating segment and geographic financial information, which is incorporated herein by reference. corporate history and structure mpc was incorporated in delaware on november 9, 2009 in connection with an internal restructuring of marathon oil corporation ( marathon oil ). on may 25, 2011, the marathon oil board of directors approved the spinoff of its refining, marketing &amp; transportation business ( rm&amp;t business ) into an independent, publicly traded company, mpc, through the distribution of mpc common stock to the stockholders of marathon oil common stock on june 30, 2011 (the spinoff ). following the spinoff, marathon oil retained no ownership interest in mpc, and each company has separate public ownership, boards of directors and management. all subsidiaries and equity method investments not contributed by marathon oil to mpc remained with marathon oil and, together with marathon oil, are referred to as the marathon oil companies. on july 1, 2011, our common stock began trading regular-way on the nyse under the ticker symbol mpc. mplx is a diversified, growth-oriented publicly traded master limited partnership ( mlp ) formed by us in 2012 to own, operate, develop and acquire midstream energy infrastructure assets. mplx is engaged in the gathering, processing and transportation of natural gas; the gathering, transportation, fractionation, storage and marketing of ngls; and the gathering, transportation and storage of crude oil and refined petroleum products. on december 4, 2015, we completed the markwest merger, whereby markwest became a wholly-owned subsidiary of mplx. as of december 31, 2017 , we owned a 30.4 percent interest in mplx, including a two percent general partner interest. mplx is a vie because the limited partners of mplx do not have substantive kick-out or substantive participating rights over the general partner. we are the primary beneficiary of mplx because in addition to significant economic interest, we also have the power, through our 100 percent ownership of the general partner, to control the decisions that most significantly impact mplx. we therefore consolidate mplx and record a noncontrolling interest for the interest owned by the public. the creditors of mplx do not have recourse to mpc's general credit through guarantees or other financial arrangements. the assets of mplx are the property of mplx and cannot be used to satisfy the obligations of mpc. recent developments strategic actions to enhance shareholder value on january 3, 2017, we announced plans to significantly accelerate the dropdown of assets with an estimated $1.4 billion of mlp-eligible annual ebitda to mplx and to exchange our economic interests in the general partner of mplx, including idrs, for newly issued mplx common units. in 2017, in connection with these plans, we contributed assets to mplx with projected annual ebitda of approximately $400 million for $1.93 billion of cash and approximately 31 million mplx 4 table of contents common units and general partner units. on february 1, 2018, we completed the dropdown of the remaining identified assets, which included our refining logistics assets and fuels distribution services with projected annual ebitda of approximately $1 billion, in exchange for $4.1 billion of cash and 114 million mplx common units and general partner units. the cash consideration for these dropdowns in 2017 and 2018 was financed by mplx with $6.0 billion of debt. see other highlights section for additional information on mplx debt financing in 2017 and 2018. the equity financing was funded through new mplx common units and general partner units issued to us. immediately following the closing of the february 1, 2018 dropdown, our idrs were cancelled and our economic general partner interest in mplx was converted into a non-economic general partner interest, all in exchange for 275 million newly issued mplx common units, which resulted in us owning approximately 64 percent of the issued and outstanding mplx common units as of february 1, 2018. these actions were designed to provide a clear valuation of our midstream platform and to provide an ongoing return of capital to our shareholders in a manner consistent with maintaining an investment-grade credit profile. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional information on our strategic actions to enhance shareholder value. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 4 for more information on the 2017 dropdowns to mplx and note 26 for more information on the 2018 dropdown to mplx. acquisitions and investments our acquisition and investment activity in 2017 was primarily focused in our midstream segment as follows: on march 1, 2017, mplx acquired the ozark pipeline from enbridge pipelines (ozark) llc for approximately $219 million . on february 15, 2017, mplx acquired a partial, indirect equity interest in the dakota access pipeline ( dapl ) and energy transfer crude oil company pipeline ( etcop ) projects, collectively referred to as the bakken pipeline system, through a joint venture, maren bakken company llc ( maren bakken ), with enbridge energy partners l.p. ( enbridge energy partners ). mplx holds, through a subsidiary, a 25 percent interest in maren bakken, which equates to an approximate 9.2 percent indirect equity interest in the bakken pipeline system. mplx contributed $500 million of the $2 billion purchase price paid by the joint venture. effective january 1, 2017, mplx and antero midstream formed a joint venture, sherwood midstream llc ( sherwood midstream ), to support the development of antero resources corporation's marcellus shale acreage in west virginia. markwest has a 50 percent ownership interest in sherwood midstream. in connection with this transaction, markwest contributed certain gas processing plants that were under construction at the sherwood complex with a fair value of approximately $134 million , cash of approximately $20 million and sold class a interests in markwest ohio fractionation to sherwood midstream for $126 million in cash. sherwood midstream holdings llc ( sherwood midstream holdings ), a joint venture with markwest and sherwood midstream, was also formed to own, operate and maintain certain assets owned by sherwood midstream and markwest. markwest contributed certain real property, equipment and facilities with a fair value of approximately $209 million to sherwood midstream holdings in exchange for a 79 percent initial ownership interest. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 5 for additional information on these acquisitions and investments and note 6 for additional information related to the investments in sherwood midstream, ohio fractionation and sherwood midstream holdings. other highlights on february 8, 2018, mplx issued $5.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior notes in a public offering, consisting of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.375 percent unsecured senior notes due march 2023, $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.000 percent unsecured senior notes due march 2028, $1.75 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.500 percent unsecured senior notes due april 2038, $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.700 percent unsecured senior notes due april 2048, and $500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.900 percent unsecured senior notes due april 2058. on february 8, 2018, $4.1 billion of the net proceeds were used to repay the 364-day term-loan facility, which was drawn on february 1, 2018 to fund the cash portion of the consideration mplx paid mpc for the dropdown of assets on february 1, 2018. the remaining proceeds will be used to repay outstanding borrowings under mplx's revolving credit facility and intercompany loan agreement with us and for general partnership purposes. 5 table of contents on february 10, 2017, mplx completed a public offering of $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.125% unsecured senior notes due march 2027 and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.200% unsecured senior notes due march 2047. mplx used the net proceeds from this offering to fund the $1.5 billion cash portion of the consideration mplx paid mpc for the dropdown of assets on march 1, 2017, as well as for general partnership purposes. primarily during the first six months of 2017 , mplx issued an aggregate of 14 million mplx common units under the second amended and restated distribution agreement (the distribution agreement ) providing for at-the-market issuances of common units, in amounts, at prices and on terms determined by market conditions and other factors at the time of the offerings (such at-the-market program, referred to as the atm program ), generating net proceeds of approximately $473 million . see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 4 for additional information on mplx. our competitive strengths extensive integrated platform of midstream, retail and refining assets we believe the integration of our midstream, retail and refining assets distinguishes us from our competitors. our midstream, retail and refining assets have significant scale.we currently own, lease or have ownership interests in approximately 10,800 miles of crude oil and products pipelines. additionally, we have more than 6,000 miles of natural gas gathering and ngl pipelines. we also own or have ownerships interests in one of the largest private domestic fleets of inland petroleum product barges and one of the largest terminal operations in the united states, as well as trucking and rail assets. we operate this transportation and distribution system in coordination with our refining and marketing network, which can process up to 1.9 mmbpcd of crude oil, enabling us to optimize raw material supplies and refined product distribution, and deliver important economies of scale across our platform. our speedway segment, discussed further below, is one of our largest distribution channels and also our most ratable. we believe our integrated platform of assets gives us extensive flexibility and optionality to meet the growth needs of the market and the ability to respond promptly to dynamic market conditions, including weather-related and marketplace disruptions. competitively positioned marketing operations provide assured product sales we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers within our market area. we have two strong retail brands: speedway and marathon . we believe speedway llc, a wholly-owned subsidiary, operates the second largest chain of company-owned and operated retail gasoline and convenience stores in the united states, with approximately 2,740 convenience stores in 21 states throughout the midwest, east coast and southeast regions of the united states. in addition, our highly successful speedy rewards customer loyalty program, which averaged approximately 6 million active members in 2017 , provides us with a unique competitive advantage and opportunity to increase our customer base at existing and new speedway locations. the marathon brand is an established motor fuel brand primarily in the midwest and southeast regions of the united states, comprised of approximately 5,600 retail outlets operated by independent entrepreneurs across 20 states as of december 31, 2017 . the marathon brand and speedway have been channels for sales volume growth in existing and contiguous markets. we consider assured sales as those sales we make to marathon brand customers, our speedway operations and to our wholesale customers with whom we have required minimum volume sales contracts. our assured sales currently account for approximately 70% of our gasoline production. we believe having assured sales brings ratability to our distribution systems, provides a solid base to enhance our overall supply reliability and allows us to efficiently and effectively optimize our operations across our refineries and our transportation and distribution system. high quality network of strategically located assets we believe we are the largest crude oil refiner in the midwest and the second largest in the united states based on crude oil refining capacity. we own a six -plant refinery network, with approximately 1.9 mmbpcd of crude oil throughput capacity. our refineries process a wide range of crude oils, feedstocks and condensate, including heavy and sour crude oils, which can generally be purchased at a discount to sweet crude oil, and produce transportation fuels such as gasoline and distillates, specialty chemicals and other refined products. while we have historically processed significant quantities of heavy and sour crude oils, our refineries have the ability to process as much as 65 percent to 70 percent light sweet or sour crude oils. 6 table of contents the geographic locations of our refineries provide us with strategic advantages. located in padd ii and padd iii, which consist of states in the midwest and the gulf coast regions of the united states, our refineries have the ability to procure crude oil from a variety of supply sources, including domestic, canadian and other foreign sources, which provides us with flexibility to optimize crude supply costs. for example, geographic proximity to various united states shale oil regions and canadian crude oil supply sources allows our refineries access to price-advantaged crude oils and lower transportation costs than certain of our refining competitors. our refinery locations and midstream distribution system also allow us to access refined product export markets and to serve a broad range of key end-user markets across the united states quickly and cost-effectively. mplx's logistics assets are similarly located in the midwest and gulf coast regions of the united states. these regions collectively comprised approximately 75 percent of total united states crude distillation capacity and can serve markets representing approximately 81 percent of total united states finished products demand for the year ended december 31, 2017 , according to the eia. this significantly complements our refining &amp; marketing segment and creates strategic opportunities for mpc. mplx is also the largest natural gas processor and fractionator in the marcellus and utica shale regions which provides it with strategic competitive advantages in capturing and contracting for gathering, processing and fractionation of new supplies of natural gas as production in these regions continues to increase. mplx also has a growing presence in the southwestern portion of the united states with an existing strong competitive position with ample opportunities for long-term continued organic growth and close proximity to other expansion opportunities. as of december 31, 2017 , mplx's gathering and processing operations include approximately 5.9 bcf/d of gathering capacity, 8.0 bcf/d of natural gas processing capacity and 610 mbpd of fractionation capacity. our integrated midstream energy asset network links producers of natural gas, ngls and crude oil from some of the largest supply basins in the united states to domestic and international markets. our speedway segment, which operates in the midwest, east coast and southeast, complements our refining and midstream assets providing a significant and ratable outlet for our refinery production. speedway's expansion from nine to 21 states since 2013 has also enabled us to further leverage our integrated refining and transportation system. speedway is a top performer in the convenience store industry with the highest ebitda per store per month of its public peers and leading positions with respect to other comparisons based on light products volume, merchandise sales and total margin on a per store per month basis. 7 table of contents * as of december 31, 2017 general partner and sponsor of mplx our investment in mplx provides us an efficient vehicle to invest in organic projects and pursue acquisitions of midstream assets; all with the focus of enhancing our share price through our limited partner interest in mplx. mlp interests tend to receive higher market multiples. mplx's liquidity, size, scale and access to the capital markets should provide us a strong foundation to execute our strategy for growing our midstream business. following the completion of our strategic actions to enhance shareholder value discussed earlier, we own approximately 505 million mplx common units with a value of $19.15 billion based on mplx's february 1, 2018 closing unit price of $37.95 . see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 4 for additional information on the dropdowns to mplx. established track record of profitability we have demonstrated an ability to achieve positive financial results throughout all stages of the business cycle due in large part to our business mix and geographic diversity. income generated by our speedway segment is less sensitive to business cycles. similarly, long-term, fee based income generated by our midstream segment is more stable over business cycles, while our refining &amp; marketing segment enables us to generate significant income and cash flow when market conditions are more favorable. we also believe our strategies position us well to continue to achieve competitive financial results. strong financial position as of december 31, 2017 , we had $3.01 billion in cash and cash equivalents and $4.25 billion in unused committed borrowing facilities, excluding mplx's cash and cash equivalents of $5 million and its credit facilities. we had $6.00 billion of debt at year-end, excluding mplx debt of $6.95 billion . this combination of strong liquidity and manageable leverage provides financial flexibility to fund our growth projects and to pursue our business strategies. 8 table of contents our business strategies maintain top-tier safety and environmental performance we remain committed to operating our assets in a safe and reliable manner and targeting continual improvement in our safety record across all of our operations. we have a history of safe and reliable operations, which was demonstrated again in 2017 with solid personal and process safety performance compared to similar industry averages. in addition, our corporate headquarters, four of our six refineries and 11 additional facilities have earned designations as an osha vpp star site which recognizes employers and workers who have implemented effective safety and health management systems. we also remain committed to environmental stewardship by continuing to improve the efficiency and reliability of our operations. for instance, in 2010, we established a focus on energy initiative to bolster our commitment to improving the efficiency of our existing installations. as part of this initiative, a team of dedicated energy specialists was formed to: track and communicate nearly 600 individual energy metrics throughout our refining system; ensure energy efficiency is designed into proposed capital and expense projects; and identify and implement energy-efficiency improvements at each of our refineries, including multi-year programs to enhance insulation, steam system performance and heat integration. through this focus, our refineries have achieved significant energy-efficiency improvements and performance. since the epa began recognizing petroleum refineries under its energy star program in 2006, we have earned 76 percent of the energy star recognitions, despite owning and operating just 10 percent of total u.s. refining capacity. we have also implemented similar initiatives in our transportation fleet which has been recognized as an epa smartway partner. the smartway program recognizes the best-performing freight carriers for greenhouse gas and energy efficiency. these measures not only reduce emissions but can also reduce operating costs. we proactively address our regulatory requirements and encourage our operations to continually improve their environmental performance through our dei program, which establishes goals and measures performance. in 2017, we began to include our natural gas gathering and processing operations in certain aspects of the program. even with the additional assets included, we maintained our performance from 2016 with 31 dei's, a 53 percent reduction in dei's since 2013. since 2001, mpc's health, environment, safety and security ( hes&amp;s ) performance has been continually improving under the responsible care management system, and we are now moving into a more rigorous phase of hes&amp;s management that represents a new level of commitment: rc14001 :2015 certification. rc14001 is a management system that combines responsible care with the globally recognized iso14001:2015 environmental management system, established by the international organization for standardization ( iso ). iso is an independent, nongovernmental international body that provides world-class specifications for products, services and systems that ensure quality, safety and efficiency. similar to responsible care, rc14001 provides the company a management system that integrates health, environmental stewardship, safety and security, and is third-party audited to ensure compliance and continual improvement. two of our six refineries and our marathon pipeline organization and terminal, transport and rail organization are already certified to the rc14001 standard. we expect that our remaining refineries will by certified in 2018 and our natural gas gathering and processing operations will begin to seek rc14001 certification in 2019. grow higher valued, stable cash flow businesses we intend to continue allocating significant portions of our capital to investments to grow our midstream and retail businesses. these businesses typically have more predictable and stable income and cash flows compared to our refining operations and we believe investors assign a higher value to such businesses. mplx has significantly expanded its midstream activities through mergers and acquisitions, dropdown transactions with mpc and organic growth projects. mplx will consider organic growth projects that provide attractive returns and cash flows both within its geographic footprint as well as in new regions. mplx may pursue these opportunities as standalone projects, with mpc or with other parties. mplx has identified a number of potential projects over the next several years. these primarily include projects to expand gathering, processing and fractionation infrastructure in the marcellus and utica regions and infrastructure investments in the permian basin to support significant oil and gas production activities forecasted in those regions. we intend to continue growing speedway's profitability by focusing on organic growth opportunities targeted to fill in voids in our existing markets by building new locations and by rebuilding or remodeling existing stores. we will also look to expand our presence by opportunistically acquiring high quality stores in new and existing markets. we have identified numerous opportunities for new convenience stores or store rebuilds in our existing market, with a continued focus in chicago and tennessee, as well as opportunities for growth in new markets including georgia, south carolina and upstate new york. we also plan to capitalize on diesel demand growth by building out our network of commercial fueling lane locations, which cater to local and regional transport fleets, within our core market. 9 table of contents focus on long-term integrated relationships with our producer customers mplx has developed long-term integrated relationships with its natural gas and ngl producer customers. these relationships are characterized by an intense focus on customer service and a deep understanding of producer customers' requirements coupled with the ability to increase the level of our midstream services in response to their midstream requirements. through collaborative planning with these producer customers, mplx continues to construct high-quality midstream infrastructure and provide unique solutions that are critical to the ongoing success of producer customers' development plans. as a result of these efforts, mplx's markwest subsidiary has been a top-rated midstream service provider in customer satisfaction since 2006, as determined by an independent research provider. pursue margin enhancing investments in refining to deliver top quartile refining performance our refining system has the flexibility to process a wide array of crude oils, which positions us well to benefit from economically attractive canadian heavy crudes, heavy/sour waterborne cargos, as well as the growing crude oil and condensate production from north american shale plays. in addition to having access to multiple domestic markets for our refined products, we are also well positioned to export distillates and gasoline from our gulf coast refineries. we intend to enhance margins in our refining &amp; marketing segment by realizing benefits from targeted investments, primarily in our gulf coast refining operations. over the mid- to long-term, we believe significant opportunities exist for refiners that can access international markets with their refined products and that can upgrade residual fuel oil into more valuable refined products, especially distillates. to this end, we are investing approximately $1.5 billion in galveston bay through the star project to create a world-class refining complex. this investment will enable us to upgrade low value residual fuel oil into higher value refined products and lowers the refinery's cost of production. the project scope increases heavy crude processing capacity, increases distillate and gas oil recovery and improves the refinery's overall reliability. project implementation began in 2016 and will complete in early 2022. in addition to star, we are expanding galveston bay's waterborne product loading capacity to optimize our gulf coast product supply system. we are also investing approximately $200 million in our garyville refinery to increase coking capacity and ulsd production, scheduled to complete in 2020. both the galveston bay star and garyville coker expansion projects will allow mpc to capitalize on the expected increase in demand for low sulfur distillate arising from the international maritime organization ( imo ) low sulfur bunker fuel requirements effective in 2020. additionally, garyville will complete the final phase of its diesel max project in early-2018, increasing mpc's ulsd production, anticipated to be a key blending component for compliant bunker fuel. finally, mpc has additional projects under development that would yield benefit through residual fuel oil destruction or increased ulsd production. sustain focus on disciplined capital allocation and shareholder returns we intend to maintain our focus on a disciplined and balanced approach to capital allocation, including return of capital to shareholders, in a manner consistent with maintaining an investment-grade credit profile. since becoming a stand-alone company in june 2011, our dividend has increased by a 26.5 percent compound annual growth rate and our board of directors has authorized share repurchases totaling $13.0 billion . through open market purchases and two asr programs, we repurchased 246 million shares of our common stock for approximately $9.81 billion , representing approximately 35 percent of our outstanding common shares when we became a stand-alone company in june 2011. we achieved these shareholder returns while also investing in the business and maintaining an investment-grade credit profile. as of december 31, 2017 , $3.19 billion of authorization remains available for future share repurchases. utilize and enhance our high quality employee workforce we utilize our high quality employee workforce by continuously leveraging their commercial skills. in addition, we continue to enhance our workforce through active recruitment of the best candidates from diverse backgrounds and effective training programs on safety, environmental stewardship, diversity and inclusion and other professional and technical skills. the above discussion contains forward-looking statements with respect to the business and operations of mpc and our competitive strengths and business strategies, including our expected investments and the adequacy of our capital resources and liquidity. factors that could impact our competitive strengths and business strategies, including the adequacy of our capital resources and liquidity include, but are not limited to, our ability to achieve the strategic and other objectives related to the strategic initiatives discussed herein; our ability to generate sufficient income and cash flow to effect the intended share repurchases, including within the expected timeframe; our ability to manage disruptions in credit markets or changes to our credit rating; the potential impact on our share price if we are unable to effect the intended share repurchases; adverse changes in laws including with respect to tax and regulatory matters; changes to the expected construction costs and timing of projects; continued/further volatility in and/or degradation of market and industry conditions; the availability and pricing of crude oil and other feedstocks; slower growth in domestic and canadian crude supply; the effects of the lifting of the u.s. crude oil export ban; completion of pipeline capacity to areas outside the u.s. midwest; consumer demand for refined products; transportation logistics; the reliability of processing units and other equipment; mpc's ability to successfully implement growth opportunities; the impact of adverse market conditions affecting mpc's and mplx's midstream business; modifications to mplx earnings 10 table of contents and distribution growth objectives; compliance with federal and state environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, including the cost of compliance with the renewable fuel standard, and/or enforcement actions initiated thereunder; adverse results in litigation; changes to mpc's capital budget; other risk factors inherent to mpc's industry. these factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. for additional information on forward-looking statements and risks that can affect our business, see disclosures regarding forward-looking statements and item 1a. risk factors in this annual report on form 10-k. refining &amp; marketing refineries we currently own and operate six refineries in the gulf coast and midwest regions of the united states with an aggregate crude oil refining capacity of 1,881 mbpcd. during 2017, we merged the management and operations of the galveston bay and texas city refineries into a single world-class refining complex that is now operated as galveston bay refinery. as of december 31, 2017, historical refinery data reported for galveston bay will include the former texas city refinery. during 2017 , our refineries processed 1,765 mbpd of crude oil and 179 mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. during 2016 , our refineries processed 1,699 mbpd of crude oil and 151 mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. our refineries include crude oil atmospheric and vacuum distillation, fluid catalytic cracking, hydrocracking, catalytic reforming, coking, desulfurization and sulfur recovery units. the refineries process a wide variety of condensate, light and heavy crude oils purchased from various domestic and foreign suppliers. we produce numerous refined products, ranging from transportation fuels, such as reformulated gasolines, blend-grade gasolines intended for blending with ethanol and ulsd fuel, to heavy fuel oil and asphalt. additionally, we manufacture aromatics, propane, propylene and sulfur. see the refined product marketing section for further information about the products we produce. our refineries are integrated with each other via pipelines, terminals and barges to maximize operating efficiency. the transportation links that connect our refineries allow the movement of intermediate products between refineries to optimize operations, produce higher margin products and efficiently utilize our processing capacity. for example, naphtha may be moved from galveston bay to robinson where excess reforming capacity is available. also, shipping intermediate products between facilities during partial refinery shutdowns allows us to utilize processing capacity that is not directly affected by the shutdown work. following is a description of each of our refineries and their capacity. galveston bay, texas city, texas refinery ( 571 mbpcd) . our galveston bay refinery is a world-class refining complex resulting from the combination of our former texas city refinery and galveston bay refinery, which we acquired on february 1, 2013. the refinery is located on the texas gulf coast approximately 30 miles southeast of houston, texas and can process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, aromatics, heavy fuel oil, refinery-grade propylene, fuel-grade coke, dry gas and sulfur. the refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products. our cogeneration facility, which supplies the galveston bay refinery, currently has 1,055 megawatts of electrical production capacity and can produce 4.3 million pounds of steam per hour. approximately 46 percent of the power generated in 2017 was used at the refinery, with the remaining electricity being sold into the electricity grid. garyville, louisiana refinery ( 556 mbpcd) . our garyville, louisiana refinery is located along the mississippi river in southeastern louisiana between new orleans, louisiana and baton rouge, louisiana. the garyville refinery is configured to process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, fuel-grade coke, asphalt, polymer-grade propylene, propane, dry gas, heavy fuel oil, slurry, refinery-grade propylene and sulfur. the refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products. a major expansion project was completed in 2009 that increased garyville's crude oil refining capacity, making it one of the largest refineries in the u.s. our garyville refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. catlettsburg, kentucky refinery ( 277 mbpcd) . our catlettsburg, kentucky refinery is located in northeastern kentucky on the western bank of the big sandy river, near the confluence with the ohio river. the catlettsburg refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, aromatics, heavy fuel oil and propane. in the second quarter of 2015, we completed construction of a condensate splitter at our catlettsburg refinery, which increased our capacity to process condensate from the utica shale region. robinson, illinois refinery ( 245 mbpcd) . our robinson, illinois refinery is located in southeastern illinois. the robinson refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, anode-grade coke, propane, aromatics, slurry and refinery-grade propylene. the robinson refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. 11 table of contents detroit, michigan refinery ( 139 mbpcd) . our detroit, michigan refinery is located in southwest detroit. it is the only petroleum refinery currently operating in michigan. the detroit refinery processes sweet and heavy sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, fuel-grade coke, chemical-grade propylene, propane and slurry. our detroit refinery earned designation as an osha vpp star site. in the fourth quarter of 2012, we completed a heavy oil upgrading and expansion project that enabled the refinery to process up to an additional 80 mbpd of heavy sour crude oils, including canadian crude oils. canton, ohio refinery ( 93 mbpcd) . our canton, ohio refinery is located approximately 60 miles south of cleveland, ohio. the canton refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils, including production from the nearby utica shale, into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, roofing flux, propane, refinery-grade propylene and slurry. in december 2014, we completed construction of a condensate splitter at our canton refinery, which increased our capacity to process condensate from the utica shale region. the canton refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. as of december 31, 2017 , our refineries had 22 rail loading racks and 26 truck loading racks and three of our refineries had a total of seven owned and 12 non-owned docks. total throughput in 2017 was 99 mbpd for the refinery loading racks and 875 mbpd for the refinery docks. planned maintenance activities, or turnarounds, requiring temporary shutdown of certain refinery operating units, are periodically performed at each refinery. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional detail. refined product yields the following table sets forth our refinery production by product group for each of the last three years. refined product yields ( mbpd ) 2017 2016 2015 gasoline 932 900 913 distillates 641 617 603 propane 36 35 36 feedstocks and special products 277 241 281 heavy fuel oil 37 32 31 asphalt 63 58 55 total 1,986 1,883 1,919 crude oil supply we obtain the crude oil we refine through negotiated term contracts and purchases or exchanges on the spot market. our term contracts generally have market-related pricing provisions. the following table provides information on our sources of crude oil for each of the last three years. the crude oil sourced outside of north america was acquired from various foreign national oil companies, production companies and trading companies. sources of crude oil refined ( mbpd ) 2017 2016 2015 united states 999 986 1,138 canada 381 326 244 middle east and other international 385 387 329 total 1,765 1,699 1,711 our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks and distribute our refined products through a variety of channels, including pipelines, trucks, railcars, ships and barges. renewable fuels we currently own a biofuel production facility in cincinnati, ohio that produces biodiesel, glycerin and other by-products. the capacity of the plant is approximately 70 million gallons per year. we hold ownership interests in ethanol production facilities in albion, michigan; clymers, indiana and greenville, ohio. these plants have a combined ethanol production capacity of approximately 415 million gallons per year ( 27 mbpd) and are managed by a co-owner. 12 table of contents refined product marketing we believe we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers and consumers within our 26 -state market area. independent retailers, wholesale customers, our marathon brand jobbers and speedway brand convenience stores, airlines, transportation companies and utilities comprise the core of our customer base. the following table sets forth our refined product sales volumes by product group for each of the last three years. refined product sales by product group ( mbpd ) 2017 2016 2015 gasoline 1,201 1,219 1,241 distillates 691 676 667 propane 37 35 36 feedstocks and special products 265 231 258 heavy fuel oil 69 35 30 asphalt 68 63 57 total 2,331 2,259 2,289 in addition, we sell gasoline, distillates and asphalt for export, primarily out of our garyville and galveston bay refineries. the following table sets forth our refined product sales destined for export by product group for the past three years. refined product sales destined for export ( mbpd ) 2017 2016 2015 gasoline 96 91 101 distillates 192 199 214 asphalt 9 6 4 total 297 296 319 gasoline and distillates . we sell gasoline, gasoline blendstocks and distillates (including no. 1 and no. 2 fuel oils, jet fuel, kerosene and diesel fuel) to wholesale customers, marathon-branded independent entrepreneurs and our speedway convenience stores and on the spot market. in addition, we sell diesel fuel and gasoline for export to international customers. we sold 52 percent of our gasoline sales volumes and 89 percent of our distillates sales volumes on a wholesale or spot market basis in 2017 . the demand for gasoline and distillates is seasonal in many of our markets, with demand typically at its highest levels during the summer months. we have blended ethanol into gasoline for more than 25 years and began expanding our blending program in 2007, in part due to federal regulations that require us to use specified volumes of renewable fuels. ethanol volumes sold in blended gasoline were 81 mbpd in 2017 , 84 mbpd in 2016 and 85 mbpd in 2015 . we sell reformulated gasoline, which is also blended with ethanol, in 12 states in our marketing area. we also sell biodiesel-blended diesel fuel in 17 states in our marketing area. the future expansion or contraction of our ethanol and biodiesel blending programs will be driven by market economics and government regulations. propane . we produce propane at all of our refineries. propane is primarily used for home heating and cooking, as a feedstock within the petrochemical industry, for grain drying and as a fuel for trucks and other vehicles. our propane sales are typically split evenly between the home heating market and petrochemical consumers. feedstocks and special products . we are a producer and marketer of feedstocks and special products. product availability varies by refinery and includes platformate, alkylate, fcc unit gas, naptha, dry gas, propylene, raffinate, butane, benzene, xylene, molten sulfur, cumene and toluene. we market these products domestically to customers in the chemical, agricultural and fuel-blending industries. in addition, we produce fuel-grade coke at our garyville, detroit and galveston bay refineries, which is used for power generation and in miscellaneous industrial applications, and anode-grade coke at our robinson refinery, which is used to make carbon anodes for the aluminum smelting industry. our feedstocks and special products sales increased to 265 mbpd in 2017 from 231 mbpd in 2016 and decreased in 2016 from 258 mbpd in 2015. the increase in 2017 was primarily due to more feedstocks and special products sold on the spot market as a result of increased product yields. the decrease in 2016 was primarily due to more feedstocks used in production versus selling them on the spot market. heavy fuel oil . we produce and market heavy residual fuel oil or related components, including slurry, at all of our refineries. heavy residual fuel oil is primarily used in the utility and ship bunkering (fuel) industries, though there are other more specialized uses of the product. 13 table of contents asphalt . we have refinery-based asphalt production capacity of up to 104 mbpcd, which includes asphalt cements, polymer-modified asphalt, emulsified asphalt, industrial asphalts and roofing flux. we have a broad customer base, including asphalt-paving contractors, government entities (states, counties, cities and townships) and asphalt roofing shingle manufacturers. we sell asphalt in the domestic and export wholesale markets via rail, barge and vessel. the following table sets forth, as a percentage of total refined product sales volume, the sales of refined products to our different customer types for the past three years. refined product sales by customer type 2017 2016 2015 private-brand marketers, commercial and industrial customers, including spot market 71 % 69 % 69 % marathon-branded independent entrepreneurs 13 % 14 % 14 % speedway convenience stores 16 % 17 % 17 % as of december 31, 2017 , there were 5,617 retail outlets in 20 states and the district of columbia where independent entrepreneurs maintain marathon-branded retail outlets. terminals as of december 31, 2017 , our refining &amp; marketing segment owned and operated 18 asphalt terminals and two light products terminals. in addition, we distribute refined products through 59 light products terminals owned by mplx and approximately 130 third-party light products and two third-party asphalt terminals in our market area. transportation - truck and rail as of december 31, 2017 , we owned 180 transport trucks and 193 trailers with an aggregate capacity of 1.8 million gallons for the movement of refined products and crude oil. in addition, we had 1,999 leased and 19 owned railcars of various sizes and capacities for movement and storage of refined products. the locations and detailed information about our refining &amp; marketing assets are included under item 2. properties and are incorporated herein by reference. speedway our speedway segment sells gasoline, diesel and merchandise through convenience stores that it owns and operates under the speedway brand. speedway convenience stores offer a wide variety of merchandise, including prepared foods, beverages and non-food items. speedway's speedy rewards loyalty program has been a highly successful loyalty program since its inception in 2004, with a consistently growing base which averaged approximately 6 million active members in 2017 . speedway's ability to capture and analyze member-specific transactional data enables us to offer speedy rewards members discounts and promotions specific to their buying behavior. we believe speedy rewards is a key reason customers choose speedway over competitors and it continues to drive significant value for both speedway and our speedy rewards members. the demand for gasoline is seasonal, with the highest demand usually occurring during the summer driving season. margins from the sale of merchandise tend to be less volatile than margins from the retail sale of gasoline and diesel fuel. as of december 31, 2017 , speedway had 2,744 convenience stores in 21 states. speedway also owns a 29 percent interest in pfj southeast llc ( pfj southeast ), which is a joint venture between speedway and pilot flying j with 124 travel center locations primarily in the southeast united states as of december 31, 2017. as of december 31, 2017 , speedway owned 109 transport trucks and 103 trailers for the movement of gasoline and distillate. the locations and detailed information about our speedway assets are included under item 2. properties and are incorporated herein by reference. midstream the midstream segment, which primarily includes the operations of mplx, gathers, processes and transports natural gas; gathers, transports, fractionates, stores and markets ngls; and transports and stores crude oil and refined products principally for the refining &amp; marketing segment via pipelines, terminals, towboats and barges. the midstream segment also includes certain related operations retained by mpc. mplx as of december 31, 2017 , mplx assets included approximately 5.9 bcf/d of natural gas gathering capacity, 8.0 bcf/d of natural gas processing capacity and 610 mbpd of ngl fractionation capacity. 14 table of contents mplx assets as of december 31, 2017 , also included 1,613 miles of owned or leased and operated common carrier crude oil pipelines and 2,360 miles of common carrier products pipelines and partial ownership in 2,194 miles of crude oil pipelines and 1,917 miles of products pipelines, all of which are across 17 states. in 2017 , third parties generated 16 percent of the crude oil and product shipments on mplx's common carrier pipelines, excluding volumes shipped by mpc under joint tariffs with third parties. mplx owns nine butane and propane storage caverns with total capacity of approximately 3 million barrels. as of december 31, 2017 , mplx owned and operated 59 light products terminals and distributes refined products through one leased light products terminal and two light products terminals in which it has partial ownership interests but does not operate. as of december 31, 2017 , mplx's marine transportation operations included 18 owned towboats, as well as 208 owned and 24 leased barges that transport refined products and crude oil on the ohio, mississippi and illinois rivers and their tributaries and inter-coastal waterways. mpc-retained midstream assets and investments we retained ownership interests in several crude oil and products pipeline systems and pipeline companies. we own 228 miles of private products pipelines that are operated by mpl for the benefit of our refining &amp; marketing segment on a cost recovery basis. we also have undivided joint interests in 739 miles of common carrier crude oil pipeline systems and partial ownership interests in pipeline companies including 1,741 miles of products pipelines. as of december 31, 2017 , we also have indirect ownership interests in two ocean vessel joint ventures with crowley through our investment in crowley coastal partners. these joint ventures operate and charter four jones act product tankers, most of which are leased to mpc, and own and operate three 750 series atb vessels that are leased to mpc. the locations and detailed information about our midstream assets are included under item 2. properties and are incorporated herein by reference. competition, market conditions and seasonality the downstream petroleum business is highly competitive, particularly with regard to accessing crude oil and other feedstock supply and the marketing of refined products. we compete with a large number of other companies to acquire crude oil for refinery processing and in the distribution and marketing of a full array of refined products. based upon the the oil &amp; gas journal 2018 worldwide refinery survey, we ranked second among u.s. petroleum companies on the basis of u.s. crude oil refining capacity. we compete in four distinct markets for the sale of refined products wholesale, spot, branded and retail distribution. we believe we compete with about 50 companies in the sale of refined products to wholesale marketing customers, including private-brand marketers and large commercial and industrial consumers; about 110 companies in the sale of refined products in the spot market; about 10 refiners or marketers in the supply of refined products to refiner-branded independent entrepreneurs; and approximately 830 retailers in the retail sale of refined products. in addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and retail consumers. we do not produce any of the crude oil we refine. we also face strong competition for sales of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. our competitors include service stations and convenience stores operated by fully integrated major oil companies, independent entrepreneurs and other well-recognized national or regional convenience stores and travel centers, often selling gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise at competitive prices. non-traditional retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, have affected the convenience store industry with their entrance into sales of retail gasoline and diesel fuel. energy analysts international, inc. estimated such retailers had approximately 15 percent of the u.s. gasoline market in mid- 2017 . our midstream operations face competition for natural gas gathering, crude oil transportation and in obtaining natural gas supplies for our processing and related services; in obtaining unprocessed ngls for gathering and fractionation; and in marketing our products and services. competition for natural gas supplies is based primarily on the location of gas gathering facilities and gas processing plants, operating efficiency and reliability and the ability to obtain a satisfactory price for products recovered. competitive factors affecting our fractionation services include availability of capacity, proximity to supply and industry marketing centers and cost efficiency and reliability of service. competition for customers to purchase our natural gas and ngls is based primarily on price, delivery capabilities, flexibility and maintenance of high-quality customer relationships. in addition, certain of our midstream operations are highly regulated, which affects the rates that our common carrier pipelines can charge for transportation services and the return we obtain from such pipelines. market conditions in the oil and gas industry are cyclical and subject to global economic and political events and new and changing governmental regulations. our operating results are affected by price changes in crude oil, natural gas and refined 15 table of contents products, as well as changes in competitive conditions in the markets we serve. price differentials between sweet and sour crude oils, wti and lls crude oils and other market structure differentials also affect our operating results. demand for gasoline, diesel fuel and asphalt is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets, primarily due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and construction. as a result, the operating results for each of our segments for the first and fourth quarters may be lower than for those in the second and third quarters of each calendar year. our midstream segment can be affected by seasonal fluctuations in the demand for natural gas and ngls and the related fluctuations in commodity prices caused by various factors such as changes in transportation and travel patterns and variations in weather patterns from year to year. overall, our exposure to the seasonal fluctuations in the commodity markets is declining due to our growth in fee-based business. environmental matters our management is responsible for ensuring that our operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that support and foster our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and for reviewing our overall environmental performance. we also have a corporate emergency response team that oversees our response to any major environmental or other emergency incident involving us or any of our facilities. we believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to issues concerning the extent and causes of climate change will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations. currently, legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gases are in various phases of review, discussion or implementation. the cost to comply with these laws and regulations cannot be estimated at this time, but could be significant. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors. we estimate and publicly report greenhouse gas emissions from our operations and products. additionally, we continuously strive to improve operational and energy efficiencies through resource and energy conservation where practicable. our operations are subject to numerous other laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. such laws and regulations include, among others, the clean air act ( caa ) with respect to air emissions, the clean water act ( cwa ) with respect to water discharges, the resource conservation and recovery act ( rcra ) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ( cercla ) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances and the oil pollution act of 1990 ( opa-90 ) with respect to oil pollution and response. in addition, many states where we operate have similar laws. new laws are being enacted and regulations are being adopted on a continuing basis, and the costs of compliance with such new laws and regulations are very difficult to estimate until finalized. for a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and costs of compliance for air, water, solid waste and remediation, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - environmental matters and compliance costs. air we are subject to many requirements in connection with air emissions from our operations. internationally and domestically, emphasis has been placed on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. there has been a dramatic shift in climate-related policy under the trump administration as compared to the obama administration's policies. on march 28, 2017, president trump published executive order 13783, pledging, among other things, to review, rescind, revoke or withdraw much of the obama-era climate change policies, regulations and guidance. the most prominent policies and regulations impacted by the executive order include the obama administration's 2013 climate action plan, the clean power plan, the social cost of carbon, the social cost of methane and the council on environmental quality's final guidance for federal departments and agencies on consideration of greenhouse gas emissions and the effects of climate change in national environmental policy act reviews. president trump also announced the united states would withdraw from the 2015 paris un climate change conference agreement, which aims to hold the increase in the global average temperature to well below two degrees celsius as compared to pre-industrial levels. many of the policies and regulations rescinded through executive order 13783 had been adopted to meet the united states' pledge under the agreement. the u.s. climate change strategy and implementation of that strategy through legislation and regulation may change under future administrations; therefore, the impact to our industry and operations due to greenhouse gas regulation is unknown at this time. regardless of whether legislation or regulation is enacted, given the continuing global demand for oil and gas - even under different hypothetical carbon-constrained scenarios - mpc has taken actions that have resulted in lower greenhouse gas emissions and we are positioned to remain a successful company well into the future. we have instituted a program to improve energy efficiency of our refineries and other assets which will continue to pay dividends in reducing our environmental 16 table of contents footprint as well as making us more cost-competitive. we believe our mature governance and risk-management processes enable the company to effectively monitor and adjust to any transitional or physical climate-related risks. in 2009, the epa issued an endangerment finding that greenhouse gas emissions contribute to air pollution that endangers public health and welfare. related to the endangerment finding, in april 2010, the epa finalized a greenhouse gas emission standard for mobile sources (cars and other light duty vehicles). the endangerment finding, the mobile source standard and the epa's determination that greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the clean air act resulted in permitting of greenhouse gas emissions at stationary sources. through a series of legal challenges filed against the epa, the requirement to control greenhouse gas emissions through best available control technology has been limited to new and modified large stationary sources, such as refineries, that will also emit a criteria pollutant. implementing best available control technology may result in increased costs to our operations. a few mpc projects may trigger greenhouse gas permitting requirements but any additional capital spending will likely not be significant. the epa has finalized source performance standards for greenhouse gas emissions for new and existing electric utility generating units. these standards could impact electric and natural gas rates for all our operations. legal challenges have been filed by several states and by industry groups seeking to overturn the final rules. in february 2016, the united states supreme court stayed implementation of the standards for existing utility generating units (also known as the clean power plan) until complete disposition of the litigation. the litigation has been placed in abeyance. on october 10, 2017, the epa issued a notice of proposed rulemaking proposing to repeal the clean power plan. the epa has also announced its intention to replace the clean power plan with a narrower rule. a proposed replacement rule is expected in 2018. in the absence of federal legislation or regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, states are becoming more active in regulating greenhouse gas emissions. these measures may include state actions to develop statewide or regional programs to impose emission reductions. these measures may also include low-carbon fuel standards, such as the california program, or a state carbon tax. these measures could result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, capital expenditures to install new emission controls and costs to administer any carbon trading or tax programs implemented. we could also face increased climate-related litigation with respect to our operations or products. private party litigation seeking damages and injunctive relief is pending against mpc and other oil and gas companies in california state court. although uncertain, these actions could increase our costs or operations or reduce the demand for the refined products we produce, transport, store and sell. private parties have also sued federal and certain state governmental entities seeking additional greenhouse gas emission reductions beyond those currently being undertaken. in sum, requiring reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any greenhouse gas emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments. these requirements may also significantly affect mpc's refinery operations and may have an indirect effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the extent and magnitude of the impact from greenhouse gas regulation or legislation cannot be reasonably estimated due to the uncertainty regarding the additional measures and how they will be implemented. in 2015, the epa finalized a revision to the national ambient air quality standards ( naaqs ) for ozone. the epa lowered the primary ozone naaqs from 75 ppb to 70 ppb. this revision initiated a multi-year process in which nonattainment designations will be made based on more recent ozone measurements that includes data from 2016. on november 6, 2017, the epa finalized ozone attainment/unclassifiable designations for certain areas under the new standard. the epa has not yet designated any counties as nonattainment under the lower primary ozone standard, but such nonattainment designations could result in increased costs associated with, or result in cancellation or delay of, capital projects at our facilities. for areas designated nonattainment, states will be required to adopt state implementation plans ( sips ) for nonattainment areas. these sips may include nox and/or voc reductions that could result in increased costs to our facilities. we cannot predict the various sips requirements at this time. on september 29, 2015, the epa signed the final regulations revising existing refinery air emissions standards. the revised regulations were published in the federal register on december 1, 2015. the revised rule requires additional controls, lower emission standards and ambient air monitoring to be implemented over a multi-year period. we do not anticipate that mpc's costs to comply with the revised regulations will be material to our results of operations or cash flows. water we maintain numerous discharge permits as required under the national pollutant discharge elimination system program of the cwa and have implemented systems to oversee our compliance with these permits. in addition, we are regulated under opa-90, which among other things, requires the owner or operator of a tank vessel or a facility to maintain an emergency plan to respond to releases of oil or hazardous substances. opa-90 also requires the responsible company to pay resulting removal 17 table of contents costs and damages and provides for civil penalties and criminal sanctions for violations of its provisions. we operate tank vessels and facilities from which spills of oil and hazardous substances could occur. we have implemented emergency oil response plans for all of our components and facilities covered by opa-90 and we have established spill prevention, control and countermeasures plans for all facilities subject to such requirements. additionally, opa-90 requires that new tank vessels entering or operating in u.s. waters be double-hulled and that existing tank vessels that are not double-hulled be retrofitted or removed from u.s. service. all barges used for river transport of our raw materials and refined products meet the double-hulled requirements of opa-90. some coastal states in which we operate have passed state laws similar to opa-90, but with expanded liability provisions, that include provisions for cargo owner responsibility as well as ship owner and operator responsibility. in june 2015, the epa and the united states army corps of engineers finalized significant changes to the definition of the term waters of the united states ( wotus ) used in numerous programs under the cwa. this final rulemaking is referred to as the clean water rule. the clean water rule, as written, expands permitting, planning and reporting obligations and may extend the timing to secure permits for pipeline and fixed asset construction and maintenance activities. the clean water rule has been challenged in multiple federal courts by many states, trade groups, and other interested parties, and in october 2015, a united states court of appeals issued a nationwide stay of the clean water rule. on appeal, however, the supreme court determined that the court of appeals did not have original jurisdiction to review challenges to the 2015 rule. as such, legal challenges to the rule will proceed in federal district courts. concurrent with the legal challenges, on february 28, 2017, president trump signed executive order 13778, directing the epa and the army corps of engineers to review the 2015 rule for consistency with the policy outlined in the order, and to issue a proposed rule rescinding or revising the 2015 rule as appropriate and consistent with law. the order also directed the agencies to consider interpreting the term navigable waters'' in a manner consistent with justice scalia's plurality opinion in rapanos v. united states, 547 u.s. 715 (2006). on june 27, 2017, the epa and the u.s. army corps of engineers proposed a rule to rescind the clean water rule and re-codify the regulatory text that existed prior to 2015 defining "waters of the united states." then, on february 6, 2018, the epa and the u.s. army corps of engineers published a final rule adding an applicability date of february 6, 2020, to the 2015 clean water rule. establishing an applicable date in 2020 will allow the agencies the time needed to reconsider the definition of waters of the united states consistent with the executive order. in 2015, the epa issued its intent to review the cwa categorical effluent limitation guidelines ( elg ) for the petroleum refining sector. during 2017, the epa prepared and issued a draft information request ( icr ) requesting significant wastewater and treatment process details from select refineries, four of which were ours. epa may also perform sampling of effluent at one or more of our refineries. the epa has indicated they believe there have been significant changes in the characteristics of waste waters generated within refining operations that warrant the review. specific targets for the review are the impacts of processing heavier crude oils and the transfer of air pollutants to wastewater when air pollution abatement devices are in use. a similar project, initiated in 2007 for steam electric power generation with similar attributes, resulted in a significant change in the treatment requirements for coal-fired power plants. however, on september 18, 2017, epa postponed certain compliance dates while it conducts a rulemaking to revise the elgs for power plants. the refining sector elg review has the potential to result in a similar impact. the typical life-cycle for an elg review from the intent to review to issuance of a final rule that would require upgrades is seven years. the impact of an elg review cannot be accurately estimated at this time. solid waste we continue to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. rcra establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. besides affecting waste disposal practices, rcra also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of usts containing regulated substances. we have ongoing rcra treatment and disposal operations at our galveston bay and robinson refineries and primarily utilize offsite third-party treatment and disposal facilities. ongoing rcra-related costs, however, are not expected to be material to our results of operations or cash flows. remediation we own or operate, or have owned or operated, certain convenience stores and other locations where, during the normal course of operations, releases of refined products from usts have occurred. federal and state laws require that contamination caused by such releases at these sites be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards. penalties or other sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance. the enforcement of the ust regulations under rcra has been delegated to the states, which administer their own ust programs. our obligation to remediate such contamination varies, depending on the extent of the releases and the stringency of the applicable state laws and regulations. a portion of these remediation costs may be recoverable from the appropriate state ust reimbursement funds once the applicable deductibles have been satisfied. we also have ongoing remediation projects at a number of our current and former refinery, terminal and pipeline locations. 18 table of contents claims under cercla and similar state acts have been raised with respect to the clean-up of various waste disposal and other sites. cercla is intended to facilitate the clean-up of hazardous substances without regard to fault. potentially responsible parties for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the hazardous substances at the site. liability is strict and can be joint and several. because of various factors including the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and clean-up costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, we are unable to reasonably estimate our ultimate cost of compliance with cercla; however, we do not believe such costs will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. mileage standards, renewable fuels and other fuels requirements the u.s. congress passed the energy independence and security act of 2007 ( eisa ), which, among other things, set a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the united states by model year 2020, and contains the rfs2. in august 2012, the epa and the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ) jointly adopted regulations that establish average industry fleet fuel economy standards for passenger cars and light trucks of up to 41 miles per gallon by model year 2021 and average fleet fuel economy standards of up to 49.7 miles per gallon by model year 2025. the standards from 2022 to 2025 are the government's current estimate but will require further rulemaking by the nhtsa. in 2017, the epa announced its intention to reconsider whether the light-duty vehicle greenhouse gas emission standards previously established for years 2022-2025 are appropriate under section 202(a) of the clean air act and to coordinate its reconsideration with the parallel rulemaking process to be undertaken by the department of transportation's nhtsa regarding corporate average fuel economy (cafe) standards for cars and light trucks for the same model years. higher cafe standards for cars and light trucks have the potential to reduce demand for our transportation fuels. new or alternative transportation fuels such as compressed natural gas could also pose a competitive threat to our operations. the rfs2 requires the total volume of renewable transportation fuels sold or introduced annually in the u.s. to reach 24.0 billion gallons in 2017, 26.0 billion gallons in 2018 and increase to 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. within the total volume of renewable fuel, eisa established an advanced biofuel volume of 9.0 billion gallons in 2017, 11.0 billion gallons in 2018 and increasing to 21.0 billion gallons in 2022. subsets within the advanced biofuel volume include biomass-based diesel, which was set as at least 1.0 billion gallons in 2014 through 2022 (to be determined by the epa through rulemaking), and cellulosic biofuel, which was set at 5.5 billion gallons in 2017, 7.0 billion gallons in 2018 and increasing to 16.0 billion gallons in 2022. on november 30, 2015, the epa finalized the renewable fuel standards for the years of 2014, 2015 and 2016 as well as the biomass-based diesel standard for 2017. in a legal challenge to the 2014-2016 volumes, the court vacated the total renewable volume for 2016 and remanded to epa for reconsideration consistent with the court's opinion. a remanded rule that increases the 2016 total renewable volume could increase our cost of compliance with the renewable fuels standards and be detrimental to the rin market. on november 23, 2016, the epa finalized the renewable fuel standards for the year 2017 and the biomass based diesel standard for 2018. the epa used its cellulosic waiver authority to reduce the standards for 2017 from the statutory amounts to the following: 19.28 billion gallons total renewable fuel; 4.28 billion gallons advanced biofuel; and 311 million gallons cellulosic ethanol. the epa increased the biomass based diesel standard for 2018 to 2.1 billion gallons. the 2017 standards have been challenged in court. on november 30, 2017, the epa announced the final renewable fuel standards for 2018 and the biomass based diesel standard for 2019. the epa again used its cellulosic waiver authority to reduce the standards for 2018 from the statutory amounts to the following: 19.29 billion gallons total renewable fuel; 4.29 billion gallons advanced biofuel; and 288 million gallons cellulosic ethanol. the epa maintained the biomass based diesel standard for 2019 at 2.1 billion gallons. in the near term, the rfs2 will be satisfied primarily with ethanol blended into gasoline. vehicle, regulatory and infrastructure constraints limit the blending of significantly more than 10 percent ethanol into gasoline ( e10 ). the volumes for 2016, 2017 and 2018 result in the ethanol content of gasoline exceeding the e10 blendwall, which will require obligated parties to either sell e15 or ethanol flex fuel at levels that exceed historical levels or retire carryover rins. in october 2010, the epa issued a partial waiver decision under the caa to allow for an increase in the amount of ethanol permitted to be blended into gasoline from e10 to e15 for model year 2007 and newer light-duty motor vehicles. in january 2011, the epa issued a second waiver for the use of e15 in vehicles model year 2001-2006. there are numerous issues, including state and federal regulatory issues, associated with marketing e15 such as infrastructure compatibility issues and vehicle manufacturer warranty concerns related to e15 usage. neither e15 nor ethanol flex fuel has been readily accepted by the consumer. with potentially uncertain supplies, the advanced biofuels programs may present specific challenges in that we may have to enter into arrangements with other parties or purchase credits from the epa to meet our obligations to use advanced biofuels, including biomass-based diesel and cellulosic biofuel. we made investments in infrastructure capable of expanding biodiesel blending capability to help comply with the biodiesel rfs2 requirement by buying and blending biodiesel into our refined diesel product, and by buying needed biodiesel rins in 19 table of contents the epa-created biodiesel rins market. on april 1, 2014, we purchased a facility in cincinnati, ohio, which currently produces biodiesel, glycerin and other by-products. the capacity of the plant is approximately 60 million gallons per year. as a producer of biodiesel, we now generate rins, thereby reducing our reliance on the external rin market. in november 2017, the epa finalized its decision to deny petitions requesting that the point of obligation for the rfs2 be moved to the terminal rack. legal challenge of the epa's decision is expected and, should the court decide that epa's decision was incorrect and move the point of obligation, we could be subject to increased costs and compliance uncertainties. the rfs2 has required, and may in the future continue to require, additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. we may experience a decrease in demand for refined products due to an increase in combined fleet mileage or due to refined products being replaced by renewable fuels. demand for our refined products also may increase as a result of low carbon fuel standard programs or electric vehicle mandates. on march 3, 2014, the epa signed the final tier 3 fuel standards. the final tier 3 fuel standards require, among other things, a lower annual average sulfur level in gasoline to no more than 10 ppm beginning in calendar year 2017. in addition, gasoline refiners and importers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 80 ppm while retailers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 95 ppm. we anticipate that we will spend an estimated $650 million between 2014 and 2019 for capital expenditures necessary to comply with these standards, which includes estimated capital expenditures of approximately $400 million in 2018-2019. trademarks, patents and licenses our marathon trademark is material to the conduct of our refining and marketing operations, and our speedway trademark is material to the conduct of our retail marketing operations. we currently hold a number of u.s. and foreign patents and have various pending patent applications. although in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important to us, we do not regard any single patent or license or group of related patents or licenses as critical or essential to our business as a whole. in general, we depend on our technological capabilities and the application of know-how rather than patents and licenses in the conduct of our operations. employees we had approximately 43,800 regular full-time and part-time employees as of december 31, 2017 , which includes approximately 32,150 employees of speedway. certain hourly employees at our canton, catlettsburg and galveston bay refineries are represented by the united steel, paper and forestry, rubber, manufacturing, energy, allied industrial and service workers union under labor agreements that are due to expire in 2019. the international brotherhood of teamsters represents certain hourly employees at our detroit refinery under a labor agreement that is also scheduled to expire in 2019. in addition, they represent certain hourly employees at speedway under agreements that cover certain retail locations in new york and new jersey that expire on march 14, 2019 and june 30, 2019, respectively. in addition, certain hourly employees at our cincinnati biofuel production facility are represented by the employees representation association under a labor agreement that is due to expire in 2021. 20 table of contents executive and corporate officers of the registrant the executive and corporate officers of mpc are as follows: name age as of february 1, 2018 position with mpc gary r. heminger 64 chairman and chief executive officer molly r. benson (a) 51 vice president, corporate secretary and chief compliance officer raymond l. brooks 57 senior vice president, refining suzanne gagle 52 vice president and general counsel timothy t. griffith 48 senior vice president and chief financial officer thomas kaczynski 56 vice president, finance and treasurer thomas m. kelley 58 senior vice president, marketing anthony r. kenney 64 president, speedway llc d. rick linhardt (a) 59 vice president, tax c. michael palmer 64 senior vice president, supply, distribution and planning brian k. partee (a) 44 vice president, business development john j. quaid 46 vice president and controller david r. sauber 54 senior vice president, human resources, health and administrative services donald c. templin 54 president donald w. wehrly (a) 58 vice president and chief information officer david l. whikehart (a) 58 vice president, environment, safety and corporate affairs (a) corporate officer. mr. heminger is chairman of the board and chief executive officer. he has served as the chairman of the board since april 2016 and as chief executive officer since 2011. mr. heminger also served as president from 2011 until 2017, and as president of marathon petroleum company lp (formerly known as marathon ashland petroleum llc and marathon petroleum company llc), currently a wholly owned subsidiary of mpc and prior to the spinoff, a wholly owned subsidiary of marathon oil. he assumed responsibility as president of marathon petroleum company lp in september 2001. ms. benson was appointed vice president, corporate secretary and chief compliance officer effective march 1, 2016. prior to this appointment, ms. benson was assistant general counsel, corporate and finance beginning in april 2012, group counsel, corporate and finance beginning in 2011, group counsel, north american production for marathon oil company beginning in 2010 and senior attorney, downstream business beginning in 2006. mr. brooks was appointed senior vice president, refining effective march 1, 2016. prior to this appointment, mr. brooks was general manager, galveston bay refinery beginning in february 2013, general manager, robinson refinery beginning in 2010 and general manager, st. paul park, minnesota refinery (no longer owned by mpc) beginning in 2006. ms. gagle was appointed vice president and general counsel effective march 1, 2016. prior to this appointment, ms. gagle was assistant general counsel, litigation and human resources beginning in april 2011, senior group counsel, downstream operations beginning in 2010 and group counsel, litigation, beginning in 2003. mr. griffith was appointed senior vice president and chief financial officer effective march 3, 2015. prior to this appointment, mr. griffith served as vice president, finance and investor relations, and treasurer beginning in january 2014. he was vice president of finance and treasurer beginning in august 2011. previously, mr. griffith was vice president investor relations and treasurer of smurfit-stone container corporation, a packaging manufacturer, in st. louis, missouri, from 2008 to 2011. mr. kaczynski was appointed vice president, finance and treasurer effective august 31, 2015. prior to this appointment, mr. kaczynski was vice president and treasurer of goodyear tire and rubber company, one of the world's largest tire manufacturers, beginning in 2014. previously, he served as vice president, investor relations, of goodyear tire and rubber company beginning in 2013, vice president and corporate treasurer of affinia group inc. beginning in 2005, and director of affiliate finance and of capital markets and bank relations of visteon corporation beginning in 2000. mr. kelley was appointed senior vice president, marketing effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. kelley served in the same capacity for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in january 2010. previously, he served as director 21 table of contents of crude supply and logistics for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in january 2008, and as a brand marketing manager for eight years prior to that. mr. kenney has served as president of speedway llc since august 2005. prior to this appointment, mr. kenney served as vice president, business development of marathon ashland petroleum llc beginning in 2001. mr. linhardt was appointed vice president, tax effective february 1, 2018. prior to this appointment, mr. linhardt served as director of tax beginning in june 2017 and manager of tax compliance beginning in may 2013. previously, he served as head of tax at rri energy, inc., an energy service provider, beginning in 2009. mr. palmer was appointed senior vice president, supply, distribution and planning effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. palmer served as vice president, crude, supply and logistics for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in june 2010. he served as director of crude, supply and logistics beginning in february 2010, and as senior vice president, oil sands operations and commercial activities for marathon oil canada corporation beginning in 2007. mr. partee was appointed vice president, business development effective february 1, 2018. prior to this appointment, mr. partee was director of business development beginning in january 2017. previously, he was manager of crude oil logistics beginning in september 2014, vice president, business development and franchise at speedway beginning in november 2012 and commercial director for speedway beginning in december 2009. mr. quaid was appointed vice president and controller effective june 23, 2014. prior to this appointment, mr. quaid was vice president of iron ore at united states steel corporation ( u. s. steel ), an integrated steel producer, beginning in january 2014. previously, mr. quaid served in various leadership positions at u. s. steel since february 2002, including vice president and treasurer beginning in august 2011, controller, north american flat-rolled operations beginning in july 2010 and assistant corporate controller beginning in 2008. mr. sauber was appointed senior vice president, human resources, health and administrative services effective january 1, 2018. prior to this appointment, mr. sauber served as vice president, human resources and labor relations beginning february 1, 2017. previously he was vice president, human resources policy, benefits and services of shell oil company, a global energy and petrochemical company, beginning in 2013 and served in various leadership positions at shell oil company since 2000 including regional human resources manager for u.s. manufacturing in 2009. mr. templin was appointed president effective july 1, 2017. prior to this appointment, mr. templin served as executive vice president beginning january 1, 2016, executive vice president, supply, transportation and marketing beginning march 3, 2015 and senior vice president and chief financial officer beginning on june 30, 2011. previously, he was a partner at pricewaterhousecoopers llp, an audit, tax and advisory services provider, with various audit and management responsibilities beginning in 1996. mr. wehrly was appointed vice president and chief information officer effective june 30, 2011. prior to this appointment, mr. wehrly was the manager of information technology services for marathon petroleum company lp beginning in 2003. mr. whikehart was appointed vice president, environment, safety and corporate affairs effective february 29, 2016. prior to this appointment, mr. whikehart served as vice president, corporate planning, government &amp; public affairs effective january 1, 2016 and director, product supply and optimization beginning in march 2011. previously, mr. whikehart served as director, climate change and carbon management beginning in 2010 and director, business development beginning in 2008. available information general information about mpc, including corporate governance principles and charters for the audit committee, compensation committee and corporate governance and nominating committee, can be found at http://ir.marathonpetroleum.com . in addition, our code of business conduct and code of ethics for senior financial officers are also available in this same location. mpc uses its website, www.marathonpetroleum.com , as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, financial information and market data. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished with the sec. these documents are also available in hard copy, free of charge, by contacting our investor relations office. in addition, our website allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive email alerts when we post news releases and financial information on our website. information contained on our website is not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k or other securities filings. 22 table of contents item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k in evaluating us and our common stock. some of these risks relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate, while others relate to the ownership of our common stock. our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks, and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline. risks relating to our business a substantial or extended decline in refining and marketing margins would reduce our operating results and cash flows and could materially and adversely impact our future rate of growth, the carrying value of our assets and our ability to execute share repurchases and continue the payment of our base dividend. our operating results, cash flows, future rate of growth, the carrying value of our assets and our ability to execute share repurchases and continue the payment of our base dividend are highly dependent on the margins we realize on our refined products. the measure of the difference between market prices for refined products and crude oil, or crack spread, is commonly used by the industry as a proxy for refining and marketing margins. historically, refining and marketing margins have been volatile, and we believe they will continue to be volatile. our margins from the sale of gasoline and other refined products are influenced by a number of conditions, including the price of crude oil. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all of the crude oil we refine. the price of crude oil and the price at which we can sell our refined products may fluctuate independently due to a variety of regional and global market conditions. any overall change in crack spreads will impact our refining and marketing margins. many of the factors influencing a change in crack spreads and refining and marketing margins are beyond our control. these factors include: worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for crude oil and refined products; the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks to be manufactured into refined products; the prices realized for refined products; utilization rates of refineries; natural gas and electricity supply costs incurred by refineries; the ability of the members of opec to agree to and maintain production controls; political instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions; local weather conditions; seasonality of demand in our marketing area due to increased highway traffic in the spring and summer months; natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornadoes; the price and availability of alternative and competing forms of energy; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and local, regional, national and worldwide economic conditions. some of these factors can vary by region and may change quickly, adding to market volatility, while others may have longer-term effects. the longer-term effects of these and other factors on refining and marketing margins are uncertain. we purchase our crude oil and other refinery feedstocks weeks before we refine them and sell the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. we also purchase refined products manufactured by others for resale to our customers. price changes during the periods between purchasing and reselling those refined products also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. lower refining and marketing margins may reduce the amount of refined products we produce, which may reduce our revenues, income from operations and cash flows. significant reductions in refining and marketing margins could require us to reduce our capital expenditures, impair the carrying value of our assets (such as property, plant and equipment, inventory or goodwill), decrease or eliminate our share repurchase activity and our base dividend. 23 table of contents our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. failure to manage risks associated with business interruptions could adversely impact our operations, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to business interruptions due to scheduled refinery turnarounds, unplanned maintenance or unplanned events such as explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents, power outages, severe weather, labor disputes, or other natural or man-made disasters, such as acts of terrorism. for example, pipelines provide a nearly-exclusive form of transportation of crude oil to, or refined products from, some of our refineries. in such instances, a prolonged interruption in service of such a pipeline could materially and adversely affect the operations, profitability and cash flows of the impacted refinery. explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents involving our assets or operations could result in serious personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property and equipment, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us. damages resulting from an incident involving any of our assets or operations may result in our being named as a defendant in one or more lawsuits asserting potentially substantial claims or in our being assessed potentially substantial fines by governmental authorities. we do not insure against all potential losses, and, therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected liabilities and increased costs. we maintain insurance coverage in amounts we believe to be prudent against many, but not all, potential liabilities arising from operating hazards. uninsured liabilities arising from operating hazards, including but not limited to, explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents involving our assets or operations, could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. historically, we also have maintained insurance coverage for physical damage and resulting business interruption to our major facilities, with significant self-insured retentions. in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance of the types and amounts we desire at reasonable rates. we rely on the performance of our information technology systems, the failure of which due to cyber-security threats or other risks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are heavily dependent on our information technology systems, network infrastructure and maintain cloud applications for the effective operation of our business. we rely on such systems to process, transmit and store electronic information, including financial records and personally identifiable information such as employee, customer, investor and payroll data, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including our supply chain, pipeline operations, gathering and processing operations, retail sales, credit card payments and authorizations at our speedway and marathon branded retail outlets, financial transactions, banking and numerous other processes and transactions. these information systems involve data network and telecommunications, internet access and website functionality, and various computer hardware equipment and software applications, including those that are critical to the safe operation of our business. our systems and infrastructure are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources including natural disasters, software viruses or other malware, power failures, cyber-attacks and other events. we also face various other cyber-security threats from criminal hackers, state-sponsored intrusion, industrial espionage and employee malfeasance, including threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable. to protect against such attempts of unauthorized access or attack, we have implemented infrastructure protection technologies and disaster recovery plans and continuously provide employee awareness training around phishing, malware and other cyber-attacks to help ensure we are protected against cyber risks and security breaches. while we have invested significant amounts in the protection of our technology systems and maintain what we believe are adequate security controls over personally identifiable customer, investor and employee data, there can be no guarantee such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be effective. certain vendors have access to sensitive information, including personally identifiable customer, investor and employee data and a breakdown of their technology systems or infrastructure as a result of a cyber-attack or otherwise could result in unauthorized disclosure of such information. unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or personally identifiable information, including by cyber-attacks or other security breach, could cause loss of data, give rise to remediation or other expenses, expose us to liability under federal and state laws, reduce our customers' willingness to do business with us, disrupt the services we provide to customers and subject us to litigation and investigations, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, our applicable insurance may not compensate us adequately for losses that may occur. state and federal cyber-security legislation could also impose new requirements, which could increase our cost of doing business. the retail market is diverse and highly competitive, and very aggressive competition could adversely impact our business. we face strong competition in the market for the sale of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. our competitors include outlets owned or operated by fully integrated major oil companies or their dealers or jobbers, and other well-recognized national or regional retail outlets, often selling gasoline or merchandise at very competitive prices. several non-traditional 24 table of contents retailers such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants are in the retail business. these non-traditional gasoline retailers have obtained a significant share of the transportation fuels market and we expect their market share to grow. because of their diversity, integration of operations, experienced management and greater financial resources, these companies may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions or levels of low or no profitability in the retail segment of the market. in addition, these retailers may use promotional pricing or discounts, both at the pump and in the store, to encourage in-store merchandise sales. these activities by our competitors could pressure us to offer similar discounts, adversely affecting our profit margins. additionally, the loss of market share by our convenience stores to these and other retailers relating to either gasoline or merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the development, availability and marketing of alternative and competing fuels in the retail market could adversely impact our business. we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel needs of our consumers. increased competition from these alternatives as a result of governmental regulations, technological advances and consumer demand could have an impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability. we are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil and refined products. we utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil and refined products to and from our refineries. in addition to our own operational risks discussed above, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines, railways or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations or third-party actions. a prolonged disruption of the ability of the pipelines, railways or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products to or from one or more of our refineries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may incur losses to our business as a result of our forward-contract activities and derivative transactions. we currently use commodity derivative instruments, and we expect to enter into these types of transactions in the future. a failure of a futures commission merchant or counterparty to perform would affect these transactions. to the extent the instruments we utilize to manage these exposures are not effective, we may incur losses related to the ineffective portion of the derivative transaction or costs related to moving the derivative positions to another futures commission merchant or counterparty once a failure has occurred. we have significant debt obligations; therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed by a deterioration of our credit profile, a decrease in debt capacity or unsecured commercial credit available to us, or by factors adversely affecting credit markets generally. at december 31, 2017 , our total debt obligations for borrowed money and capital lease obligations were $13.4 billion , including $7.4 billion of obligations of mplx. we may incur substantial additional debt obligations in the future. our indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could have material adverse consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends and other purposes. a decrease in our debt or commercial credit capacity, including unsecured credit extended by third-party suppliers, or a deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and/or limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have a trade receivables securitization facility that provides liquidity of up to $750 million depending on the amount of eligible domestic trade accounts receivables. in periods of lower prices, we may not have sufficient eligible accounts receivables to support full availability of this facility. 25 table of contents historic or current operations could subject us to significant legal liability or restrict our ability to operate. we currently are defending litigation and anticipate we will be required to defend new litigation in the future. our operations, including those of mplx, and those of our predecessors could expose us to litigation and civil claims by private plaintiffs for alleged damages related to contamination of the environment or personal injuries caused by releases of hazardous substances from our facilities, products liability, consumer credit or privacy laws, product pricing or antitrust laws or any other laws or regulations that apply to our operations. while an adverse outcome in most litigation matters would not be expected to be material to us, in class-action litigation, large classes of plaintiffs may allege damages relating to extended periods of time or other alleged facts and circumstances that could increase the amount of potential damages. attorneys general and other government officials may pursue litigation in which they seek to recover civil damages from companies on behalf of a state or its citizens for a variety of claims, including violation of consumer protection and product pricing laws or natural resources damages. we are defending litigation of that type and anticipate that we will be required to defend new litigation of that type in the future. if we are not able to successfully defend such litigation, it may result in liability to our company that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we do not have insurance covering all of these potential liabilities. in addition to substantial liability, plaintiffs in litigation may also seek injunctive relief which, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a portion of our workforce is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. approximately 37 percent of our refining employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. certain hourly employees at our canton, catlettsburg, galveston bay and texas city refineries are represented by the united steel, paper and forestry, rubber, manufacturing, energy, allied industrial and service workers union under labor agreements that are due to expire in 2019. the international brotherhood of teamsters represents certain hourly employees at our detroit refinery under a labor agreement that is also scheduled to expire in 2019. in addition, they represent certain hourly employees at speedway under agreements that cover certain retail locations in new york and new jersey that expire on march 14, 2019 and june 30, 2019, respectively. these contracts may be renewed at an increased cost to us. in addition, we have experienced, or may experience, work stoppages as a result of labor disagreements. any prolonged work stoppages disrupting operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a publicly traded master limited partnership, mplx, which may involve a greater exposure to certain legal liabilities than existed under our historic business operations. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of mplx, a publicly traded master limited partnership. our control of the general partner of mplx may increase the possibility of claims of breach of fiduciary duties including claims of conflicts of interest related to mplx. any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if foreign investment in us or mplx exceeds certain levels, mplx could be prohibited from operating inland river vessels, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the shipping act of 1916 and merchant marine act of 1920, which we refer to collectively as the maritime laws, generally require that vessels engaged in u.s. coastwise trade be owned by u.s. citizens. among other requirements to establish citizenship, entities that own such vessels must be owned at least 75 percent by u.s. citizens. if we fail to maintain compliance with the maritime laws, mplx would be prohibited from operating vessels in the u.s. inland waters. such a prohibition could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to certain continuing contingent liabilities of marathon oil relating to taxes and other matters and to potential liabilities pursuant to the tax sharing agreement and separation and distribution agreement we entered into with marathon oil that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. although the spinoff occurred in mid-2011, certain liabilities of marathon oil could become our obligations. for example, under the internal revenue code of 1986 (the code ) and related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the spinoff is jointly and severally liable for the federal income tax liability of the entire marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. in connection with the spinoff, we entered into a tax sharing agreement with marathon oil that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group between us and marathon oil. however, if marathon oil is unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is 26 table of contents responsible, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes. other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans as well as other contingent liabilities. also pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, following the spinoff we are responsible generally for all taxes attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries, whether accruing before, on or after the spinoff. we also agreed to be responsible for, and indemnify marathon oil with respect to, all taxes arising as a result of the spinoff (or certain internal restructuring transactions) failing to qualify as transactions under sections 368(a) and 355 of the code for u.s. federal income tax purposes to the extent such tax liability arises as a result of any breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or other obligation by us or certain affiliates made in connection with the issuance of the private letter ruling relating to the spinoff or in the tax sharing agreement. in addition, we agreed to indemnify marathon oil for specified tax-related liabilities associated with our 2005 acquisition of the minority interest in our refining joint venture from ashland inc. our indemnification obligations to marathon oil and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited or subject to any cap. if we are required to indemnify marathon oil and its subsidiaries and their respective officers and directors under the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. at this time, we cannot precisely quantify the amount of these liabilities that have been assumed pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, and there can be no assurances as to their final amounts. also, in connection with the spinoff, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with marathon oil that provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions that were required to effect the spinoff, certain conditions to the spinoff and provisions governing the relationship between our company and marathon oil with respect to and resulting from the spinoff. among other things, the separation and distribution agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our downstream business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the spinoff, as well as certain obligations of marathon oil assumed by us. our obligations to indemnify marathon oil under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement could subject us to substantial liabilities. marathon oil also agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. however, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities retained by marathon oil, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from marathon oil will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, that marathon oil will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations or that marathon oil's insurers will cover us for liabilities associated with occurrences prior to the spinoff. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from marathon oil or its insurers any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. the tax liabilities and underlying liabilities in the event marathon oil is unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations described in this paragraph could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. significant acquisitions in the future will involve the integration of new assets or businesses and present substantial risks that could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows . significant future transactions involving the addition of new assets or businesses will present potential risks, which may include, among others: inaccurate assumptions about future synergies, revenues, capital expenditures and operating costs; an inability to successfully integrate assets or businesses we acquire; a decrease in our liquidity resulting from using a portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity under our revolving credit agreement to finance transactions; a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance transactions; the assumption of unknown environmental and other liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and the incurrence of other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. a significant decrease or delay in oil and natural gas production in mplx's areas of operation, whether due to sustained declines in oil, natural gas and ngl prices, natural declines in well production, or otherwise, may adversely affect mplx's business, results of operations and financial condition, and could reduce mplx's ability to make distributions to us. a significant portion of mplx's operations are dependent upon production from oil and natural gas reserves and wells owned by its producer customers, which will naturally decline over time, which means that mplx's cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. to maintain or increase throughput levels and the utilization rate of mplx's facilities, mplx must continually obtain new oil, natural gas and ngl supplies, which depends in part on the level of successful drilling activity near its facilities. 27 table of contents we have no control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of mplx's operations, the amount of reserves associated with the wells or the rate at which production from a well will decline. in addition, we have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, drilling costs per mcf or barrel, demand for hydrocarbons, operational challenges, access to downstream markets, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations and the availability and cost of capital. because of these factors, even if new oil or natural gas reserves are discovered in areas served by mplx assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. if mplx is not able to obtain new supplies of oil, natural gas or ngls to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells, throughput on mplx pipelines and the utilization rates of mplx facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on mplx's business, results of operations and financial condition and could reduce mplx's ability to make distributions to us. decreases in energy prices can decrease drilling activity, production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. the prices for oil, natural gas and ngls depend upon factors beyond our control, including global and local demand, production levels, changes in interstate pipeline gas quality specifications, imports and exports, seasonality and weather conditions, economic and political conditions domestically and internationally and governmental regulations. sustained periods of low prices could result in producers also significantly curtailing or limiting their oil and gas drilling operations which could substantially delay the production and delivery of volumes of oil, natural gas and ngls to mplx's facilities and adversely affect mplx's revenues and cash available for distribution to us. this impact may also be exacerbated due to the extent of mplx's commodity-based contracts, which are more directly impacted by changes in natural gas and ngl prices than its fee-based contracts due to frac spread exposure and may result in operating losses when natural gas becomes more expensive on a btu equivalent basis than ngl products. in addition, mplx's purchase and resale of natural gas and ngls in the ordinary course exposes mplx to significant risk of volatility in natural gas or ngl prices due to the potential difference in the time of the purchases and sales and the potential difference in the price associated with each transaction, and direct exposure may also occur naturally as a result of mplx's production processes. also, the significant volatility in natural gas, ngl and oil prices could adversely impact mplx's unit price, thereby increasing its distribution yield and cost of capital. such impacts could adversely impact mplx's ability to execute its long term organic growth projects, satisfy obligations to its customers and make distributions to unitholders at intended levels, and may also result in non-cash impairments of long-lived assets or goodwill or other-than-temporary non-cash impairments of our equity method investments. our recently completed strategic actions designed to enhance shareholder value may not deliver the anticipated benefits. in january 2017, we announced strategic actions designed to enhance shareholder value, including the significant acceleration of dropdowns of midstream assets into mplx and the exchange of our economic interests in the general partner, including incentive distribution rights, for newly issued mplx common units in conjunction with the completion of such dropdowns. on march 1, 2017, we contributed certain terminal, pipeline and storage assets to mplx and on september 1, 2017 we contributed our joint-interest ownership in certain pipelines and storage facilities to mplx. on february 1, 2018, we completed the dropdown of our refining logistics assets and fuels distribution services to mplx and the exchange of our economic interests in the general partner, including incentive distribution rights, for 275 million newly issued mplx common units. we may not be able to achieve the anticipated benefits of these actions and the market price of our common stock could decline if securities or industry analysts or our investors disagree with these strategic actions or the way we implement such actions. accordingly, there is no assurance that these actions will be reflected in the market price of our stock to the extent currently anticipated by management. significant stockholders may attempt to effect changes at our company or acquire control over our company, which could impact the pursuit of business strategies and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our stockholders may from time to time engage in proxy solicitations, advance stockholder proposals or otherwise attempt to effect changes or acquire control over our company. campaigns by stockholders to effect changes at publicly traded companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase short-term stockholder value through actions such as financial restructuring, increased debt, special dividends, stock repurchases or sales of assets or the entire company. responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our board of directors and senior management from the management of our operations and the pursuit of our business strategies. as a result, stockholder campaigns could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 28 table of contents risks relating to our industry changes in environmental or other laws or regulations may reduce our refining and marketing margin and may result in substantial capital expenditures and operating costs that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. various laws and regulations are expected to impose increasingly stringent and costly requirements on our operations, which may reduce our refining and marketing margin. laws and regulations expected to become more stringent relate to the following: the emission or discharge of materials into the environment, solid and hazardous waste management, pollution prevention, greenhouse gas emissions, climate change, characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, public and employee safety and health, and facility security. the specific impact of laws and regulations on us and our competitors may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of operating facilities, marketing areas, crude oil and feedstock sources and production processes. we may be required to make expenditures to modify operations, install pollution control equipment, perform site cleanups or curtail operations that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. because the issue of climate change continues to receive scientific and political attention, there is the potential for further legislation or regulation that could result in increased operating costs and reduced consumer demand for the traditional transportation fuels we produce, transport, store and sell. greenhouse gas emissions regulations could be implemented, such as methods to further reduce methane emissions from our midstream assets, a carbon tax or similar effort that increases the cost of our products, thereby reducing demand. regardless of whether climate change legislation or regulation is enacted, given the continuing global demand for oil and gas - even under various hypothetical carbon-constrained scenarios - we believe we effectively budget for prospective costs of climate regulations in our business and strategic planning and our approval of capital project allocations. our mature governance and risk-management processes enable us to effectively monitor and adjust to physical climate-related risks. at this time, however, we cannot predict the extent to which any such legislation or regulation will be enacted and, if enacted, what its impacts upon our operations would be. we could also face increased climate-related litigation with respect to our operations or products. private party litigation is pending against mpc and other oil and gas companies in california state court. although uncertain, these types of actions could increase our costs of operations or reduce the demand for the refined products we produce, transport, store and sell. in october 2015, the epa reduced the primary (health) ozone naaqs to 70 ppb from the prior ozone level of 75 ppb. on november 6, 2017, the epa finalized ozone attainment/unclassifiable designations under the new standard. the epa has not yet designated any counties as nonattainment under the lower primary ozone standard, but such nonattainment designations could result in increased costs associated with, or result in cancellation or delay of, capital projects at our facilities. states will also be required to adopt sips for nonattainment areas. these sips may include nox and/or voc reductions that could result in increased costs to our facilities. we cannot predict the various sip requirements at this time. the eisa established increases in fuel mileage standards. the department of transportation's national highway safety administration and the epa work in conjunction to establish cafe standards and greenhouse gas emission standards for light-duty vehicles that become more stringent over time. in addition, pursuant to a waiver granted by the epa, california and other states have enacted laws that require vehicle emission reductions. increases in fuel mileage standards and requirements for zero emission vehicles may reduce demand for refined product. the eisa also expanded the renewable fuel standard ( rfs ) program administered by the epa. governmental regulations encouraging the use of new or alternative fuels could pose a competitive threat to our operations. the eisa required the total volume of renewable transportation fuels sold or introduced annually in the u.s. to reach 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. the rfs presents production and logistics challenges for both the renewable fuels and petroleum refining industries, and may continue to require additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. gasoline consumption has been lower than forecasted by the epa, which has led to concerns that the renewable fuel volumes may not be met. the 2018 renewable fuel standards were finalized and published on december 12, 2017. the final standards are lower than the statutory requirements but nevertheless result in volumes that breach the ethanol blendwall. the advanced biofuels 29 table of contents program, a subset of the rfs requirements, creates uncertainties and presents challenges of supply, and may require that we and other refiners and other obligated parties purchase credits from the epa to meet our obligations. tax incentives and other subsidies have also made renewable fuels more competitive with refined products than they otherwise would have been, which may further reduce refined product margins. the tax incentives and subsidies are causing uncertainties because they have expired and been reinstituted retroactively. the biodiesel credit, for example, expired at the end of 2016 and there is uncertainty if it will be reinstituted. on march 3, 2014, the epa signed the final tier 3 fuel standards. the final tier 3 fuel standards require, among other things, a lower annual average sulfur level in gasoline to no more than 10 parts ppm beginning in calendar year 2017. in addition, gasoline refiners and importers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 80 ppm, while retailers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 95 ppm. we anticipate that we will spend an estimated $650 million between 2014 and 2019 for capital expenditures necessary to comply with these standards, which includes estimated capital expenditures of approximately $400 million in 2018-2019. federal, state and local legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could delay or impede producer's gas production or result in reduced volumes available for our midstream assets to gather, process and fractionate. while we do not conduct hydraulic fracturing operations, we do provide gathering, processing and fractionation services with respect to natural gas and natural gas liquids produced by our customers as a result of such operations. if federal, state or local laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such legal requirements could make it more difficult to complete natural gas wells in shale formations and increase producers' costs of compliance. severe weather events may adversely affect our facilities and ongoing operations. we have mature systems in place to manage potential acute physical risks, such as floods and hurricane-force winds, and potential chronic physical risks, such as higher ocean levels. if any such events were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. specifically, where appropriate, we are hardening and modernizing assets against flood and wind damage and ensuring we have resiliency measures in place, such as storm-specific readiness plans. we have incurred and will continue to incur additional costs to protect our assets and operations from such physical risks and employ the evolving technologies and processes available to mitigate such risks. to the extent such severe weather events increase in frequency and severity, we may be required to modify operations and incur costs that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. plans we may have to expand existing assets or construct new assets are subject to risks associated with societal and political pressures and other forms of opposition to the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels. such risks could adversely impact our business and ability to realize certain growth strategies. our anticipated growth and planned expenditures are based upon the assumption that societal sentiment will continue to enable and existing regulations will remain intact to allow for the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels. a portion of our growth strategy is dependent on our ability to expand existing assets and to construct additional assets. however, policy decisions relating to the production, refining, transportation and marketing of carbon-based fuels are subject to political pressures and the influence and protests of environmental and other special interest groups. one of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new pipelines or the expansion of existing ones. the construction of a new pipeline or the expansion of an existing pipeline, by adding horsepower or pump stations or by adding a second pipeline along an existing pipeline, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control. the approval process for storage and transportation projects has become increasingly challenging, due in part to state and local concerns related to pipelines and negative public perception regarding the oil and gas industry. these projects may not be completed on schedule (or at all) or at the budgeted cost. in addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we build a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities (including improvements and repairs to our existing facilities) could adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results, thereby limiting our ability to grow and generate cash flows. large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting project returns. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results. delays in making 30 table of contents required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we produce. such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: denial of or delay in receiving requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of components or construction materials; adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors or suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or subcontractors. any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our ongoing capital projects. if we were unable to make up the delays associated with such factors or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the availability of crude oil and increases in crude oil prices may reduce profitability and refining and marketing margins. the profitability of our operations depends largely on the difference between the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks we refine and the selling prices we obtain for refined products. a portion of our crude oil is purchased from various foreign national oil companies, production companies and trading companies, including suppliers from canada, the middle east and various other international locations. the market for crude oil and other feedstocks is largely a world market. we are, therefore, subject to the attendant political, geographic and economic risks of such a market. if one or more major supply sources were temporarily or permanently eliminated, we believe adequate alternative supplies of crude oil would be available, but it is possible we would be unable to find alternative sources of supply. if we are unable to obtain adequate crude oil volumes or are able to obtain such volumes only at unfavorable prices, our operations, sales of refined products and refining and marketing margins could be adversely affected, materially and adversely impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. worldwide political and economic developments could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition to impacting crude oil and other feedstock supplies, political and economic factors in global markets could have a material adverse effect on us in other ways. hostilities in the middle east or the occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economies of the u.s. and other developed countries. a lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could cause our revenues and margins to decline and limit our future growth prospects. these risks could lead to increased volatility in prices for refined products, ngls and natural gas. additionally, these risks could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult and/or costly for us to access capital and to obtain the insurance coverage that we consider adequate. additionally, tax policy, legislative or regulatory action and commercial restrictions could reduce our operating profitability. for example, the u.s. government could prevent or restrict exports of refined products, ngls, natural gas or the conduct of business with certain foreign countries. compliance with and changes in tax laws could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal and state income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales and use, payroll, franchise, withholding and property taxes. new tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations could result in increased expenditures by us for tax liabilities in the future and could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, many tax liabilities are subject to periodic audits by taxing authorities, and such audits could subject us to interest and penalties. terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities or that impact our customers or the markets we serve could adversely affect our business. the u.s. government has issued warnings that energy assets in general, including the nation's refining, pipeline and terminal infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. the threat of terrorist attacks has subjected our operations to increased risks. any future terrorist attacks on our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, 31 table of contents could have a material adverse effect on our business. similarly, any future terrorist attacks that severely disrupt the markets we serve could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. risks relating to ownership of our common stock provisions in our corporate governance documents could operate to delay or prevent a change in control of our company, dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our capital stock or affect its liquidity. the existence of some provisions within our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us that a stockholder may consider favorable. these include provisions: providing that our board of directors fixes the number of members of the board; providing for the division of our board of directors into three classes with staggered terms; providing that only our board of directors may fill board vacancies; limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring stockholder action to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; establishing supermajority vote requirements for certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and stockholder proposals for amendments to our amended and restated bylaws; providing that our directors may only be removed for cause; authorizing a large number of shares of common stock that are not yet issued, which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of our management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us; and authorizing the issuance of blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt. we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors time to assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. however, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition. our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. the terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. for example, we could grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our board of directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock. finally, to facilitate compliance with the maritime laws, our restated certificate of incorporation limits the aggregate percentage ownership by non-u.s. citizens of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock to 23 percent of the outstanding shares. we may prohibit transfers that would cause ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock by non-u.s. citizens to exceed 23 percent. our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to effect any and all measures necessary or desirable to monitor and limit foreign ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock. these limitations could have an adverse impact on the liquidity of the market for our common stock if holders are unable to transfer shares to non-u.s. citizens due to the limitations on ownership by non-u.s. citizens. any such limitation on the liquidity of the market for our common stock could adversely impact the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 76 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, includes forward-looking statements. you can identify our forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, believe, could, design, estimate, expect, forecast, goal, guidance, imply, intend, may, objective, opportunity, outlook, plan, position, potential, predict, project, prospective, pursue, seek, should, strategy, target, will, would or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. in accordance with safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to, or statements that are subject to risks, contingencies or uncertainties that relate to: future levels of revenues, refining and marketing margins, operating costs, retail gasoline and distillate margins, merchandise margins, income from operations, net income or earnings per share; anticipated volumes of feedstock, throughput, sales or shipments of refined products; anticipated levels of regional, national and worldwide prices of crude oil, natural gas, ngls and refined products; anticipated levels of crude oil and refined product inventories; future levels of capital, environmental or maintenance expenditures, general and administrative and other expenses; the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital or maintenance projects; business strategies, growth opportunities and expected investments our share repurchase authorizations, including the timing and amounts of any common stock repurchases; the adequacy of our capital resources and liquidity, including but not limited to, availability of sufficient cash flow to execute our business plan; the effect of restructuring or reorganization of business components; the potential effects of judicial or other proceedings on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; and the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, activist investors or federal, foreign, state or local regulatory authorities or plaintiffs in litigation. we have based our forward-looking statements on our current expectations, estimates and projections about our industry and our company. we caution that these statements are not guarantees of future performance, and you should not rely unduly on them, as they involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we cannot predict. in addition, we have based many of these forward-looking statements on assumptions about future events that may prove to be inaccurate. while our management considers these assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. accordingly, our actual results may differ materially from the future performance that we have expressed or forecast in our forward-looking statements. differences between actual results and any future performance suggested in our forward-looking statements could result from a variety of factors, including the following: volatility or degradation in general economic, market, industry or business conditions; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of natural gas, ngls and crude oil and other feedstocks; the ability of the members of the opec to agree on and to influence crude oil price and production controls; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of refined products such as gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, home heating oil and petrochemicals; foreign imports and exports of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and ngls; refining industry overcapacity or under capacity; changes in producer customers' drilling plans or in volumes of throughput of crude oil, natural gas, ngls, refined products or other hydrocarbon-based products; changes in the cost or availability of third-party vessels, pipelines, railcars and other means of transportation for crude oil, natural gas, ngls, feedstocks and refined products; changes to our capital budget, expected construction costs and timing of projects; 2 table of contents the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels and alternative-fuel vehicles and laws mandating such fuels or vehicles; fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products, natural gas and ngls, including seasonal fluctuations; political and economic conditions in nations that consume refined products, natural gas and ngls, including the united states, and in crude oil producing regions, including the middle east, africa, canada and south america; actions taken by our competitors, including pricing adjustments, expansion of retail activities, the expansion and retirement of refining capacity and the expansion and retirement of pipeline capacity, processing, fractionation and treating facilities in response to market conditions; completion of pipeline projects within the united states; changes in fuel and utility costs for our facilities; failure to realize the benefits projected for capital projects, or cost overruns associated with such projects; modifications to mplx lp earnings and distribution growth objectives; the ability to successfully implement growth opportunities, including strategic initiatives and actions; risks and uncertainties associated with intangible assets, including any future goodwill or intangible assets impairment charges; the ability to realize the strategic benefits of joint venture opportunities; accidents or other unscheduled shutdowns affecting our refineries, machinery, pipelines, processing, fractionation and treating facilities or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers; unusual weather conditions and natural disasters, which can unforeseeably affect the price or availability of crude oil and other feedstocks and refined products; acts of war, terrorism or civil unrest that could impair our ability to produce refined products, receive feedstocks or to gather, process, fractionate or transport crude oil, natural gas, ngls or refined products; state and federal environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, including the cost of compliance with the renewable fuel standard program; adverse changes in laws including with respect to tax and regulatory matters; rulings, judgments or settlements and related expenses in litigation or other legal, tax or regulatory matters, including unexpected environmental remediation costs, in excess of any reserves or insurance coverage; political pressure and influence of environmental groups upon policies and decisions related to the production, gathering, refining, processing, fractionation, transportation and marketing of crude oil or other feedstocks, refined products, natural gas, ngls or other hydrocarbon-based products; labor and material shortages; the maintenance of satisfactory relationships with labor unions and joint venture partners; the ability and willingness of parties with whom we have material relationships to perform their obligations to us; the market price of our common stock and its impact on our share repurchase authorizations; changes in the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and trade credit, changes in the availability of unsecured credit, changes affecting the credit markets generally and our ability to manage such changes; capital market conditions and our ability to raise adequate capital to execute our business plan; the costs, disruption and diversion of management's attention associated with campaigns commenced by activist investors; and the other factors described in item 1a. risk factors. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements except to the extent required by applicable law. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business overview marathon petroleum corporation ( mpc ) has 130 years of experience in the energy business with roots tracing back to the formation of the ohio oil company in 1887. we are one of the largest independent petroleum product refining, marketing, retail and transportation businesses in the united states and the largest east of the mississippi. we are one of the largest natural gas processors in the united states and the largest processor and fractionator in the marcellus and utica shale regions. our operations consist of three reportable operating segments: refining &amp; marketing; speedway; and midstream . each of these segments is organized and managed based upon the nature of the products and services it offers. refining &amp; marketing refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our six refineries in the gulf coast and midwest regions of the united states, purchases refined products and ethanol for resale and distributes refined products through various means, including pipeline and marine transportation, terminals and storage services provided by our midstream segment. we sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, buyers on the spot market, our speedway business segment and to independent entrepreneurs who operate marathon retail outlets. speedway sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market in the midwest, east coast and southeast regions of the united states. midstream gathers, processes and transports natural gas; gathers, transports, fractionates, stores and markets ngls; and transports and stores crude oil and refined products principally for the refining &amp; marketing segment via pipelines, terminals, towboats and barges. the midstream segment primarily reflects the results of mplx, our sponsored master limited partnership. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk. capital resources our liquidity totaled $7.3 billion at december 31, 2017 consisting of: december 31, 2017 (in millions) total capacity outstanding borrowings available capacity bank revolving credit facility (a) $ 2,500 $ $ 2,500 364 day bank revolving credit facility 1,000 1,000 trade receivables facility 750 750 total $ 4,250 $ $ 4,250 cash and cash equivalents (b) 3,006 total liquidity $ 7,256 (a) excludes mplx's $2.25 billion bank revolving credit facility, which had $505 million borrowings and $3 million of letters of credit outstanding as of december 31, 2017 . (b) excludes $5 million of mplx cash and cash equivalents. because of the alternatives available to us, including internally generated cash flow and access to capital markets, including a commercial paper program, we believe that our short-term and long-term liquidity is adequate to fund not only our current operations, but also our near-term and long-term funding requirements, including capital spending programs, the repurchase of shares of our common stock, dividend payments, defined benefit plan contributions, repayment of debt maturities and other amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies. as discussed in the strategic actions to enhance shareholder value section in the corporate overview, mplx financed the dropdown transactions in the aggregate with debt and equity in approximately equal proportions. the equity financing was funded through mplx common units and general partner units issued to us. these actions were designed to provide a clear valuation of our midstream platform and to provide an ongoing return of capital to shareholders in a manner consistent with maintaining an investment-grade credit profile. in connection with the final dropdown, on january 2, 2018, mplx entered into a $4.1 billion 364-day term-loan facility to fund the cash portion of the dropdown consideration. on february 8, 2018, mplx issued $5.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior notes in a public offering, consisting of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.375 percent unsecured senior notes due march 2023, $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.000 percent unsecured senior notes due march 2028, $1.75 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.500 percent unsecured senior notes due april 2038, $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.700 percent unsecured senior notes due april 2048, and $500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.900 percent unsecured senior notes due april 2058. on february 8, 2018, $4.1 billion of the net proceeds were used to repay the 364-day term-loan facility, which was drawn on february 1, 2018 to fund the cash portion of the consideration mplx paid mpc for the dropdown of assets on february 1, 64 table of contents 2018. the remaining proceeds will be used to repay outstanding borrowings under mplx's revolving credit facility and intercompany loan agreement with us and for general partnership purposes. commercial paper we established a commercial paper program that allows us to have a maximum of $2 billion in commercial paper outstanding, with maturities up to 397 days from the date of issuance. we do not intend to have outstanding commercial paper borrowings in excess of available capacity under our bank revolving credit facilities. at december 31, 2017 , we had no amounts outstanding under the commercial paper program. mpc bank revolving credit facility on july 21, 2017, we entered into credit agreements with a syndicate of lenders to replace our previous $2.5 billion four -year revolving credit facility due in 2020 and our previous $1 billion 364 -day credit agreement, dated as of july 20, 2016, which expired on july 19, 2017. the new agreements provide for a five -year $2.5 billion bank revolving credit agreement ( mpc five-year credit agreement ) maturing on july 21, 2022 and a 364 -day $1 billion bank revolving credit agreement ( mpc 364-day credit agreement and together with the mpc five-year credit agreement, the mpc credit agreements ) maturing on july 20, 2018 . there were no borrowings or letters of credit outstanding under these facilities at december 31, 2017 . trade receivables facility our trade receivables facility has a borrowing capacity of $750 million (depending on the amount of our eligible domestic trade accounts receivable) and a maturity date of july 19, 2019 . as of december 31, 2017 , eligible trade receivables supported borrowings of $750 million . there were no borrowings outstanding at december 31, 2017 . availability under our trade receivables facility is primarily a function of refined product selling prices. mplx credit agreement on july 21, 2017, mplx entered into a credit agreement with a syndicate of lenders to replace the existing $2 billion five -year bank revolving credit facility with a $2.25 billion five -year bank revolving credit facility with a maturity date of july 21, 2022 ( mplx credit agreement ). at december 31, 2017 , mplx had $505 million borrowings and $3 million of letters of credit outstanding under the bank revolving credit facility, resulting in total unused loan availability of approximately $1.74 billion . see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. variable interest entities we evaluate all legal entities in which we hold an ownership or other pecuniary interest to determine if the entity is a vie. our interests in a vie are referred to as variable interests. variable interests can be contractual, ownership or other pecuniary interests in an entity that change with changes in the fair value of the vie's assets. when we conclude that we hold an interest in a vie we must determine if we are the entity's primary beneficiary. a primary beneficiary is deemed to have a controlling financial interest in a vie. this controlling financial interest is evidenced by both (a) the power to direct the activities of the vie that most significantly impact the vie's economic performance and (b) the obligation to absorb losses that could potentially be significant to the vie or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the vie. we consolidate any vie when we determine that we are the primary beneficiary. we must disclose the nature of any interests in a vie that is not consolidated. significant judgment is exercised in determining that a legal entity is a vie and in evaluating our interest in a vie. we use primarily a qualitative analysis to determine if an entity is a vie. we evaluate the entity's need for continuing financial support; the equity holder's lack of a controlling financial interest; and/or if an equity holder's voting interests are disproportionate to its obligation to absorb expected losses or receive residual returns. we evaluate our interests in a vie to determine whether we are the primary beneficiary. we use a primarily qualitative analysis to determine if we are deemed to have a controlling financial interest in the vie, either on a standalone basis or as part of a related party group. we continually monitor our interests in legal entities for changes in the design or activities of an entity and changes in our interests, including our status as the primary beneficiary to determine if the changes require us to revise our previous conclusions. changes in the design or nature of the activities of a vie, or our involvement with a vie, may require us to reconsider our conclusions on the entity's status as a vie and/or our status as the primary beneficiary. such reconsideration requires significant judgment and understanding of the organization. this could result in the deconsolidation or consolidation of the affected subsidiary, which would have a significant impact on our financial statements. variable interest entities are discussed in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk general we are exposed to market risks related to the volatility of crude oil and refined product prices. we employ various strategies, including the use of commodity derivative instruments, to hedge the risks related to these price fluctuations. we are also exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. as of december 31, 2017 , we did not have any financial derivative instruments to hedge the risks related to interest rate fluctuations; however, we have used them in the past, and we continually monitor the market and our exposure and may enter into these agreements again in the future. we are at risk for changes in fair value of all of our derivative instruments; however, such risk should be mitigated by price or rate changes related to the underlying commodity or financial transaction. we believe that our use of derivative instruments, along with our risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose us to material adverse consequences. while the use of derivative instruments could materially affect our results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods, we believe that the use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity. seerisk factors 21 risk factors, item 3. legal proceedings, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, includes forward-looking statements. you can identify our forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, believe, could, design, estimate, expect, forecast, goal, guidance, imply, intend, may, objective, opportunity, outlook, plan, position, potential, predict, project, prospective, pursue, seek, should, strategy, target, will, would or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. in accordance with safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to, or statements that are subject to risks, contingencies or uncertainties that relate to: the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the andeavor acquisition may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the andeavor acquisition making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; risks relating to any unforeseen liabilities of andeavor; the potential merger, consolidation or combination of mplx lp with andeavor logistics lp; future levels of revenues, refining and marketing margins, operating costs, retail gasoline and distillate margins, merchandise margins, income from operations, net income or earnings per share; the regional, national and worldwide availability and pricing of refined products, crude oil, natural gas, ngls and other feedstocks; consumer demand for refined products; our ability to manage disruptions in credit markets or changes to our credit rating; future levels of capital, environmental or maintenance expenditures, general and administrative and other expenses; the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital or maintenance projects; the reliability of processing units and other equipment; business strategies, growth opportunities and expected investments; share repurchase authorizations, including the timing and amounts of any common stock repurchases; the adequacy of our capital resources and liquidity, including but not limited to, availability of sufficient cash flow to execute our business plan and to effect any share repurchases or dividend increases, including within the expected timeframe; the effect of restructuring or reorganization of business components; the potential effects of judicial or other proceedings on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; continued or further volatility in and/or degradation of general economic, market, industry or business conditions; compliance with federal and state environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, including the cost of compliance with the renewable fuel standard, and/or enforcement actions initiated thereunder; and the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, activist investors or federal, foreign, state or local regulatory authorities or plaintiffs in litigation. our forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and you should not rely unduly on them, as they involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we cannot predict. material differences between actual results and any future performance suggested in our forward-looking statements could result from a variety of factors, including the following: volatility or degradation in general economic, market, industry or business conditions; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of natural gas, ngls and crude oil and other feedstocks; the ability of the members of the opec to agree on and to influence crude oil price and production controls; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of refined products such as gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, home heating oil and petrochemicals; 2 table of contents foreign imports and exports of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and ngls; refining industry overcapacity or under capacity; changes in producer customers' drilling plans or in volumes of throughput of crude oil, natural gas, ngls, refined products or other hydrocarbon-based products; changes in the cost or availability of third-party vessels, pipelines, railcars and other means of transportation for crude oil, natural gas, ngls, feedstocks and refined products; changes to our capital budget, expected construction costs and timing of projects; the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels and alternative-fuel vehicles and laws mandating such fuels or vehicles; fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products, natural gas and ngls, including seasonal fluctuations; political and economic conditions in nations that consume refined products, natural gas and ngls, including the united states, and in crude oil producing regions, including the middle east, africa, canada and south america; actions taken by our competitors, including pricing adjustments, expansion of retail activities, the expansion and retirement of refining capacity and the expansion and retirement of pipeline capacity, processing, fractionation and treating facilities in response to market conditions; completion of pipeline projects within the united states; changes in fuel and utility costs for our facilities; failure to realize the benefits projected for capital projects, or cost overruns associated with such projects; modifications to mplx and andx earnings and distribution growth objectives; the ability to successfully implement growth opportunities, including strategic initiatives and actions; risks and uncertainties associated with intangible assets, including any future goodwill or intangible assets impairment charges; the ability to realize the strategic benefits of joint venture opportunities; accidents or other unscheduled shutdowns affecting our refineries, machinery, pipelines, processing, fractionation and treating facilities or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers; unusual weather conditions and natural disasters, which can unforeseeably affect the price or availability of crude oil and other feedstocks and refined products; acts of war, terrorism or civil unrest that could impair our ability to produce refined products, receive feedstocks or to gather, process, fractionate or transport crude oil, natural gas, ngls or refined products; state and federal environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, including the cost of compliance with the renewable fuel standard program; adverse changes in laws including with respect to tax and regulatory matters; rulings, judgments or settlements and related expenses in litigation or other legal, tax or regulatory matters, including unexpected environmental remediation costs, in excess of any reserves or insurance coverage; political pressure and influence of environmental groups upon policies and decisions related to the production, gathering, refining, processing, fractionation, transportation and marketing of crude oil or other feedstocks, refined products, natural gas, ngls or other hydrocarbon-based products; labor and material shortages; the maintenance of satisfactory relationships with labor unions and joint venture partners; the ability and willingness of parties with whom we have material relationships to perform their obligations to us; the market price of our common stock and its impact on our share repurchase authorizations; changes in the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and trade credit, changes in the availability of unsecured credit, changes affecting the credit markets generally and our ability to manage such changes; capital market conditions and our ability to raise adequate capital to execute our business plan; the costs, disruption and diversion of management's attention associated with campaigns commenced by activist investors; and the other factors described in item 1a. risk factors. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements except to the extent required by applicable law. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business overview marathon petroleum corporation ( mpc ) has 131 years of experience in the energy business with roots tracing back to the formation of the ohio oil company in 1887. we are a leading, integrated, downstream energy company headquartered in findlay, ohio. with the acquisition of andeavor october 1, 2018 (as described further below), we are the largest independent petroleum product refining, marketing, retail and midstream business in the united states. we operate the nation's largest refining system with more than 3 million barrels per day of crude oil capacity across 16 refineries. mpc's marketing system includes branded locations across the united states. we also own and operate retail convenience stores across the united states. mpc's midstream operations are primarily conducted through mplx lp ( mplx ) and andeavor logistics lp ( andx ), which own and operate crude oil and light product transportation and logistics infrastructure as well as gathering, processing and fractionation assets. we own the general partner and majority limited partner interests in these two midstream companies. our operations consist of three reportable operating segments: refining &amp; marketing; retail ; and midstream . each of these segments is organized and managed based upon the nature of the products and services it offers. refining &amp; marketing refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our 16 refineries in the west coast, gulf coast and mid-continent regions of the united states, purchases refined products and ethanol for resale and distributes refined products largely through transportation, storage, distribution and marketing services provided largely by our midstream segment. we sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, to buyers on the spot market, to our retail business segment and to independent entrepreneurs who operate primarily marathon branded outlets. retail sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market across the united states through company-owned and operated convenience stores, primarily under the speedway brand, and long-term fuel supply contracts with direct dealers who operate locations mainly under the arco brand. midstream transports, stores, distributes and markets crude oil and refined products principally for the refining &amp; marketing segment via refining logistics assets, pipelines, terminals, towboats and barges; gathers, processes and transports natural gas; and gathers, transports, fractionates, stores and markets ngls. the midstream segment primarily reflects the results of mplx and andx, our sponsored master limited partnerships. andeavor acquisition on october 1, 2018, we completed the andeavor acquisition. under the terms of the merger agreement, andeavor stockholders had the option to choose 1.87 shares of mpc common stock or $152.27 in cash per share of andeavor common stock. the merger agreement included election proration provisions that resulted in approximately 22.9 million shares of andeavor common stock being converted into cash consideration and the remaining 128.2 million shares of andeavor common stock being converted into stock consideration. andeavor stockholders received in the aggregate approximately 239.8 million shares of mpc common stock valued at $19.8 billion and approximately $3.5 billion in cash in connection with the andeavor acquisition. through the andeavor acquisition, we acquired the general partner and 156 million common units of andx, which is a publicly traded master limited partnership ( mlp ) that was formed to own, operate, develop and acquire logistics assets. andeavor was a highly integrated marketing, logistics and refining company operating primarily in the western and mid-continent united states. andeavor's operations included procuring crude oil from its source or from other third parties, transporting the crude oil to one of its 10 refineries, and producing, marketing and distributing refined products. its marketing system included more than 3,300 stations marketed under multiple well-known fuel brands including arco . also, as noted above, we acquired the general partner and 156 million common units of andx, a leading growth-oriented, full service, and diversified midstream company which owns and operates networks of crude oil, refined products and natural gas pipelines, terminals with crude oil and refined products storage capacity, rail loading and offloading facilities, marine terminals including storage, bulk petroleum distribution facilities, a trucking fleet and natural gas processing and fractionation complexes. this transaction combined two strong, complementary companies to create a leading nationwide u.s. downstream energy company. the acquisition substantially increases our geographic diversification and scale and strengthens each of our operating segments by diversifying our refining portfolio into attractive markets and increasing access to advantaged feedstocks, enhancing our midstream footprint in the permian basin, and creating a nationwide retail and marketing portfolio all of which is expected to substantially improve efficiencies and our ability to serve customers. we expect the combination to generate up 4 table of contents to approximately $1.4 billion in gross run-rate synergies within the first three years, significantly enhancing our long-term cash flow generation profile. see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data note 5 for additional information on other acquisitions and investments in affiliates. transactions with mplx on february 1, 2018, we completed the dropdown of the remaining identified assets related to our strategic actions to enhance shareholder value announced in january 2017. we contributed our refining logistics assets and fuels distribution services to mplx in exchange for $4.1 billion in cash and approximately 114 million newly issued mplx common units. immediately following the dropdown, our idrs were cancelled and our economic general partner interest was converted into a non-economic general partner interest, all in exchange for 275 million newly issued mplx common units. mplx financed the cash portion of the february 1, 2018 dropdown with its $4.1 billion 364 -day term loan facility, which was entered into on january 2, 2018. on february 8, 2018, mplx issued $5.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior notes in a public offering. mplx used $4.1 billion of the net proceeds of the offering to repay the 364-day term-loan facility. the remaining proceeds were used to repay outstanding borrowings under mplx's revolving credit facility and intercompany loan agreement with us and for general partnership purposes. corporate history and structure mpc was incorporated in delaware on november 9, 2009 in connection with an internal restructuring of marathon oil corporation ( marathon oil ). on may 25, 2011, the marathon oil board of directors approved the spinoff of its refining, marketing &amp; transportation business into an independent, publicly traded company, mpc, through the distribution of mpc common stock to the stockholders of marathon oil common stock on june 30, 2011. our common stock trades on the nyse under the ticker symbol mpc. mplx is a diversified, large-cap publicly traded mlp formed by us in 2012 that owns and operates midstream energy infrastructure and logistics assets, and provides fuels distribution services. as of december 31, 2018 , we owned the general partner and 63.6 percent of the outstanding mplx common units. andx is a publicly traded mlp that was formed in 2010 to own, operate, develop and acquire logistics assets. as of december 31, 2018 , we owned the general partner and 63.6 percent of the outstanding andx common units. our business strategies by following our core values, we aim to achieve our strategic vision outlined below. core values and operational excellence our core values are the foundation for all we do and include the following: health and safety : we have the highest regard for the health and safety of our employees, contractors and neighboring communities. environmental stewardship : we are committed to minimizing our environmental impact and continually look for ways to reduce our footprint. integrity : we uphold the highest standards of business ethics and integrity, enforcing strict principles of corporate governance. we strive for transparency in all of our operations. corporate citizenship : we work to make a positive difference in the communities where we have the privilege to operate. inclusive culture : we value diversity and strive to provide our employees with a collaborative, supportive, and inclusive work environment where they can maximize their full potential for personal and business success. maintain top-tier safety and environmental performance we remain committed to operating our assets in a safe and reliable manner and targeting continual improvement in our safety and environmental record across our operations through the use of a rigorous, independently audited management system, rc14001 :2015. this management system integrates health, environmental stewardship, safety and security to ensure compliance and continual improvement. six of our 16 refineries, the marathon pipeline organization and the terminal, transport and rail organization are already certified to the rc14001 standard. we expect our natural gas gathering and processing operations will begin to seek rc14001 certification in 2020 and we have begun the process of integrating our newly acquired operations into the rc14004 management system. 5 table of contents as noted in the graph below, our refining operations continue to demonstrate solid personal safety performance as compared to similar industry averages. safety performance (a) (a) safety performance is based on the osha recordable incident rate for the refining industry. the industry average source is the bureau of labor statistics and data is not yet available for 2018. (b) legacy andeavor refineries included beginning full year 2018. in addition, our corporate headquarters, four of our 16 refineries and 14 additional facilities have earned designations as an osha vpp star site. this designation recognizes the outstanding efforts of employers and employees who have implemented effective safety and health management systems and achieved exemplary occupational safety and health performance. three additional sites have completed their osha vpp inspections in 2018 and will be eligible for vpp status in 2019. we proactively address our regulatory requirements and encourage our operations to continually improve their environmental performance through our dei program, which establishes goals and measures performance. dei is a metric adopted by mpc to capture several categories simultaneously. it includes three categories of environmental incidents: releases to the environment (air, land or water), environmental permit exceedances and agency enforcement actions. we rank deis in terms of their severity, with tier 4 being the most severe, and tier 1 being the least. we report and track these as a leading indicator that helps us to identify potential problems before they occur. we continually strive for improvements in our environmental performance. in 2018 , we experienced 23 deis, a 62 percent reduction from 2013, and we have already begun to integrate our recently acquired operations into these programs. in 2018, the epa recognized marathon petroleum corporation as an energy star partner of the year, the only oil and gas company to receive such honor. this award recognized the significant energy efficiency gains achieved since we established our focus on energy program at our refineries nearly a decade ago. through the implementation of this program, we have earned 75 percent of the total energy star certifications awarded to the u.s. refining sector since 2006. overall, we have realized considerable savings in energy costs and our energy efficiency efforts have enabled us to significantly lower our greenhouse gas intensity. capture value and leverage integrated business model with the acquisition of andeavor on october 1, 2018, we believe the enhanced scale and integration of our midstream, retail and refining assets distinguishes us from our competitors. our nationwide footprint enables connectivity to key supply sources and demand hubs. we have additional access to advantaged feedstocks and our expanded logistics system lowers crude acquisition costs, increases optionality, and increases our speed to market. our broader market presence creates new product placement options and our nationwide marketing channels create even further optimization opportunities. with operations coast to coast, we intend to leverage and optimize the significant scale of our midstream, retail and refining assets to recognize up to approximately $1.4 billion of gross run-rate synergies by the end of 2021. further information about our synergy outlook and estimated gross run-rate synergies are included below: 6 table of contents (a) procurement synergies allocated 50/50 to refining &amp; marketing and corporate. (b) initial synergy estimates provided april 30, 2018. strategically invest in attractive long-term growth opportunities we intend to allocate significant portions of our capital to investments focused on enhancing margins system wide with disciplined allocation to projects with superior returns. our refining &amp; marketing segment projects are focused on refinery optimization, production of higher value products, increased capacity to upgrade residual fuel oil and expanded export capacity. investing to enhance margins, we will continue our disciplined high-return investments in resid upgrading capacity and the ability to produce more diesel. we also plan to continue investing in domestic light products supply placement flexibility, as well as increasing our export capacity. in our retail segment, projects are focused on high value growth opportunities, real estate and store portfolio optimization and technology enhancements. our plans include conversion of recently acquired locations to the speedway brand and systems, growth in existing and new markets, dealer sites, commercial fueling/diesel expansion, food service through store remodels and high quality acquisitions. in our midstream segment, projects are focused on meeting market needs in the permian, marcellus and utica basins as well as investments in export opportunities and long-haul pipelines. we plan to invest in gathering systems to create significant growth opportunities in the permian basin and in long-haul pipelines to generate stable, fee-based midstream income while helping to lower feedstock costs for our refineries. we also plan to expand our value chain by connecting growing natural gas production to demand from our refineries and global export markets and by connecting growing ngl production and developing new fractionation infrastructure in the gulf coast. export facilities create the ability to generate third party revenue and meet global demand for crude, refined products and ngls. focus on disciplined capital allocation and shareholder returns we intend to maintain our focus on a disciplined and balanced approach to capital allocation, including return of capital to shareholders, in a manner consistent with maintaining an investment-grade credit profile. since becoming a stand-alone company in june 2011, our dividend has increased by a 24.9 percent compound annual growth rate and our board of directors has authorized share repurchases totaling $18.0 billion . through open market purchases and two asr programs, we have repurchased 293 million shares of our common stock for approximately $13.10 billion , representing approximately 41 percent of our outstanding common shares when we became a stand-alone company in june 2011. we achieved these shareholder returns while meaningfully investing in the business and maintaining an investment-grade credit profile. as of december 31, 2018 , $4.90 billion of authorization remains available for future share repurchases. utilize and enhance our high quality employee workforce we utilize our high quality employee workforce by continuously leveraging their commercial skills and business acumen. in addition, we continue to enhance our workforce through active recruitment of the best candidates, including those from diverse backgrounds, and effective training programs on safety, environmental stewardship, diversity and inclusion and other professional and technical skills. 7 table of contents our operations our operations consist of three reportable operating segments: refining &amp; marketing; retail; and midstream. refining &amp; marketing refineries we currently own and operate 16 refineries in the gulf coast, mid-continent and west coast regions of the united states with an aggregate crude oil refining capacity of 3,021 mbpcd. on october 1, 2018, we acquired 10 refineries as part of the andeavor acquisition which added approximately 1,117 mbpcd to our total capacity. during 2018 , our refineries processed 2,081 mbpd of crude oil and 193 mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. during 2017 , our refineries processed 1,765 mbpd of crude oil and 179 mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. our refineries include crude oil atmospheric and vacuum distillation, fluid catalytic cracking, hydrocracking, catalytic reforming, coking, desulfurization and sulfur recovery units. the refineries process a wide variety of condensate, light and heavy crude oils purchased from various domestic and foreign suppliers. we produce numerous refined products, ranging from transportation fuels, such as reformulated gasolines, blend-grade gasolines intended for blending with ethanol and ulsd fuel, to heavy fuel oil and asphalt. additionally, we manufacture aromatics, propane, propylene and sulfur. see the refined product marketing section for further information about the products we produce. our refineries are integrated with each other via pipelines, terminals and barges to maximize operating efficiency. the transportation links that connect our refineries allow the movement of intermediate products between refineries to optimize operations, produce higher margin products and efficiently utilize our processing capacity. for example, naphtha may be moved from galveston bay to robinson where excess reforming capacity is available. also, shipping intermediate products between facilities during partial refinery shutdowns allows us to utilize processing capacity that is not directly affected by the shutdown work. following is a description of each of our refineries and their capacity by region. gulf coast region ( 1,149 mbpcd) galveston bay, texas city, texas refinery ( 585 mbpcd) . our galveston bay refinery is a world-class refining complex resulting from the combination of our former texas city refinery and galveston bay refinery, which we acquired on february 1, 2013. the refinery is located on the texas gulf coast approximately 30 miles southeast of houston, texas and can process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, aromatics, heavy fuel oil, dry gas, fuel-grade coke, refinery-grade propylene, chemical-grade propylene and sulfur. the refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products. our cogeneration facility, which supplies the galveston bay refinery, currently has 1,055 megawatts of electrical production capacity and can produce 4.3 million pounds of steam per hour. approximately 45 percent of the power generated in 2018 was used at the refinery, with the remaining electricity being sold into the electricity grid. garyville, louisiana refinery ( 564 mbpcd) . our garyville, louisiana refinery is located along the mississippi river in southeastern louisiana between new orleans, louisiana and baton rouge, louisiana. the garyville refinery is configured to process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, fuel-grade coke, asphalt, polymer-grade propylene, propane, refinery-grade propylene, dry gas, slurry and sulfur. the refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products. a major expansion project was completed in 2009 that increased garyville's crude oil refining capacity, making it one of the largest refineries in the u.s. our garyville refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. mid-continent region ( 1,161 mbpcd) catlettsburg, kentucky refinery ( 277 mbpcd) . our catlettsburg, kentucky refinery is located in northeastern kentucky on the western bank of the big sandy river, near the confluence with the ohio river. the catlettsburg refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, aromatics, heavy fuel oil and propane. in the second quarter of 2015, we completed construction of a condensate splitter at our catlettsburg refinery, which increased our capacity to process condensate from the utica shale region. robinson, illinois refinery ( 245 mbpcd) . our robinson, illinois refinery is located in southeastern illinois. the robinson refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, propane, anode-grade coke, fuel-grade coke and aromatics. the robinson refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. detroit, michigan refinery ( 140 mbpcd) . our detroit, michigan refinery is located in southwest detroit. it is the only petroleum refinery currently operating in michigan. the detroit refinery processes sweet and heavy sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, fuel-grade coke, chemical-grade propylene, propane and slurry. our detroit refinery earned designation as an osha vpp star site. in the fourth quarter of 2012, we completed a heavy oil upgrading and expansion project that enabled the refinery to process up to an additional 80 mbpd of heavy sour crude oils, including canadian crude oils. 8 table of contents el paso, texas refinery ( 131 mbpcd) . our el paso refinery is located approximately three miles east of downtown el paso, texas. the el paso refinery processes sweet and sour crudes into gasoline, distillates, heavy fuel oil, asphalt and propane. the refinery has access to the permian basin shale region. st. paul park, minnesota refinery ( 98 mbpcd) . our st. paul park refinery is located along the mississippi river southeast of st. paul park, minnesota and was originally built in 1939. the st. paul park refinery primarily processes sweet crude from the bakken region in north dakota as well as various grades of canadian sweet and heavy sour crude and manufactures gasoline, distillates, asphalt, heavy fuel oil, propane and refinery-grade propylene. canton, ohio refinery ( 93 mbpcd) . our canton, ohio refinery is located approximately 60 miles south of cleveland, ohio. the canton refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils, including production from the nearby utica shale, into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, roofing flux, propane, refinery-grade propylene and slurry. in december 2014, we completed construction of a condensate splitter at our canton refinery, which increased our capacity to process condensate from the utica shale region. the canton refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. mandan, north dakota refinery ( 71 mbpcd) . our mandan refinery began operations in 1954. the mandan refinery processes primarily sweet domestic crude oil from north dakota and manufactures gasoline, distillates, propane and heavy fuel oil. salt lake city, utah refinery ( 61 mbpcd) . our salt lake city refinery began operations in 1908 and is now the largest in utah. the salt lake city refinery processes crude oil from utah, colorado, wyoming and canada to manufacture gasoline, distillates, propane and heavy fuel oil. gallup, new mexico refinery ( 26 mbpcd) . our gallup refinery is located near gallup, new mexico and is the only active refinery in the four corners area. the gallup refinery primarily processes high-quality crude known as four corners sweet into gasoline, distillate, heavy fuel oil and propane. dickinson, north dakota refinery ( 19 mbpcd) . our dickinson refinery is located four miles west of dickinson, north dakota and is the first refinery in the u.s. to be built in over 30 years. the dickinson refinery primarily processes domestic crude oil from north dakota and manufactures ultra-low sulfur diesel and gasoline blendstocks. we plan to convert this refinery into a 12 mbpcd, 100 percent renewable diesel facility that will process refined soy oil and other organically derived feedstocks by december 2020. west coast region ( 711 mbpcd) los angeles, california refinery ( 363 mbpcd) . our los angeles refinery is located in los angeles county, near the los angeles harbor. the los angeles refinery is the largest refinery on the west coast and is a major producer of clean fuels. the los angeles refinery processes heavy crude from california's san joaquin valley and los angeles basin as well as crudes from the alaska north slope, south america, west africa and other international sources and manufactures cleaner-burning carb gasoline and carb diesel fuel, as well as conventional gasoline, distillates, petroleum coke, anode-grade coke, chemical-grade propylene, fuel-grade coke, heavy fuel oil and propane. martinez, california refinery ( 161 mbpcd) . our martinez refinery is located in martinez, california. the martinez refinery processes crude oils from california and other domestic and foreign sources and manufactures cleaner-burning carb gasoline and carb diesel fuel, as well as conventional gasoline and distillates, petroleum coke, propane, heavy fuel oil and refinery-grade propylene. anacortes, washington refinery ( 119 mbpcd) . our anacortes refinery is located about 70 miles north of seattle on puget sound. the anacortes refinery processes canadian crude, domestic crude from north dakota and alaska north slope and international crudes to manufacture gasoline, distillates, heavy fuel oil and propane. kenai, alaska refinery ( 68 mbpcd) . our kenai refinery is located on the cook inlet, 60 miles southwest of anchorage. the kenai refinery processes mainly alaska domestic crude along with limited international crude and manufactures gasoline, distillates, heavy fuel oil, asphalt and propane. planned maintenance activities, or turnarounds, requiring temporary shutdown of certain refinery operating units, are periodically performed at each refinery. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional detail. 9 table of contents refined product yields the following table sets forth our refinery production by product group for each of the last three years including production from the refineries acquired in the andeavor acquisition from october 1, 2018 forward. ( mbpd ) 2018 2017 2016 gasoline 1,107 932 900 distillates 773 641 617 propane 41 36 35 feedstocks and petrochemicals 288 277 241 heavy fuel oil 38 37 32 asphalt 69 63 58 total 2,316 1,986 1,883 crude oil supply we obtain the crude oil we refine through negotiated term contracts and purchases or exchanges on the spot market. our term contracts generally have market-related pricing provisions. the following table provides information on our sources of crude oil for each of the last three years and includes production from the refineries acquired in the andeavor acquisition from october 1, 2018 forward. the crude oil sourced outside of north america was acquired from various foreign national oil companies, production companies and trading companies. ( mbpd ) 2018 2017 2016 united states 1,319 999 986 canada 297 381 326 middle east and other international 465 385 387 total 2,081 1,765 1,699 our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks and distribute our refined products through a variety of channels, including pipelines, trucks, railcars, ships and barges. renewable fuels we currently own a biofuel production facility in cincinnati, ohio that produces biodiesel, glycerin and other by-products. the capacity of the plant is approximately 80 million gallons per year. we hold ownership interests in ethanol production facilities in albion, michigan; clymers, indiana and greenville, ohio. these plants have a combined ethanol production capacity of approximately 410 million gallons per year ( 27 mbpd) and are managed by a co-owner. refined product marketing our refined products are primarily sold to independent retailers, wholesale customers, our brand jobbers, our retail segment, airlines, transportation companies and utilities. our brand footprint expanded by approximately 1,100 branded outlets in the western and mid-continental regions of the u.s. and mexico through the andeavor acquisition. as of december 31, 2018 , there were 6,813 branded outlets in 35 states, the district of columbia and mexico where independent entrepreneurs primarily maintain marathon-branded outlets. we believe we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers and consumers within our 41 -state market area. 10 table of contents the following table sets forth our refined product sales volumes by product group for each of the last three years including sales from the refineries acquired in the andeavor acquisition from october 1, 2018 forward. ( mbpd ) 2018 2017 2016 gasoline 1,416 1,201 1,219 distillates 847 691 676 propane 44 37 35 feedstocks and petrochemicals 289 265 231 heavy fuel oil 37 39 35 asphalt 70 68 63 total 2,703 2,301 2,259 refined product sales destined for export we sell gasoline, distillates and asphalt for export, primarily out of our garyville, galveston bay, anacortes, martinez, los angeles and kenai refineries. the following table sets forth our refined product sales destined for export by product group for the past three years including sales from the refineries acquired in the andeavor acquisition from october 1, 2018 forward. ( mbpd ) 2018 2017 2016 gasoline 117 96 91 distillates 193 192 199 asphalt and other 24 9 6 total 334 297 296 gasoline and distillates . we sell gasoline, gasoline blendstocks and distillates (including no. 1 and no. 2 fuel oils, jet fuel, kerosene and diesel fuel) to wholesale customers, marathon-branded independent entrepreneurs, our retail segment, and on the spot market. in addition, we sell diesel fuel and gasoline for export to international customers. the demand for gasoline and distillates is seasonal in many of our markets, with demand typically at its highest levels during the summer months. propane . we produce propane at all of our refineries except dickinson. propane is primarily used for home heating and cooking, as a feedstock within the petrochemical industry, for grain drying and as a fuel for trucks and other vehicles. our propane sales are split approximately 60 percent and 40 percent between the home heating market and petrochemical consumers, respectively. feedstocks and petrochemicals . we are a producer and marketer of feedstocks and petrochemicals. product availability varies by refinery and includes naptha, raffinate, benzene, butane, alkylate, dry gas, xylene, propylene, cumene, platformate and toluene. we market these products domestically to customers in the chemical, agricultural and fuel-blending industries. in addition, we produce fuel-grade coke at our garyville, detroit, galveston bay and los angeles refineries, which is used for power generation and in miscellaneous industrial applications, and anode-grade coke at our los angeles and robinson refineries, which is used to make carbon anodes for the aluminum smelting industry. heavy fuel oil . we produce and market heavy residual fuel oil or related components, including slurry, at all of our refineries except dickinson. heavy residual fuel oil is primarily used in the utility and ship bunkering (fuel) industries, though there are other more specialized uses of the product. asphalt . we have refinery-based asphalt production capacity of up to 136 mbpcd, which includes asphalt cements, polymer-modified asphalt, emulsified asphalt, industrial asphalts and roofing flux. we have a broad customer base, including asphalt-paving contractors, government entities (states, counties, cities and townships) and asphalt roofing shingle manufacturers. we sell asphalt in the domestic and export wholesale markets via rail, barge and vessel. terminals and transportation we transport, store and distribute crude oil, feedstocks and refined products through pipelines, terminals and marine fleets owned by mplx, andx and third parties in our market areas. we own a fleet of transport trucks and trailers for the movement of refined products and crude oil. in addition, we maintain a fleet of leased and owned railcars for the movement and storage of refined products. 11 table of contents the locations and detailed information about our refining &amp; marketing assets are included under item 2. properties and are incorporated herein by reference. competition, market conditions and seasonality the downstream petroleum business is highly competitive, particularly with regard to accessing crude oil and other feedstock supply and the marketing of refined products. we compete with a number of other companies to acquire crude oil for refinery processing and in the distribution and marketing of a full array of refined products. based upon the the oil &amp; gas journal 2018 worldwide refinery survey, we ranked first among u.s. petroleum companies on the basis of u.s. crude oil refining capacity. we compete in four distinct markets for the sale of refined products wholesale, spot, branded and retail distribution. our marketing operations compete with numerous other independent marketers, integrated oil companies and high-volume retailers. we compete with companies in the sale of refined products to wholesale marketing customers, including private-brand marketers and large commercial and industrial consumers; companies in the sale of refined products in the spot market; and refiners or marketers in the supply of refined products to refiner-branded independent entrepreneurs. in addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and retail consumers. market conditions in the oil and gas industry are cyclical and subject to global economic and political events and new and changing governmental regulations. our operating results are affected by price changes in crude oil, natural gas and refined products, as well as changes in competitive conditions in the markets we serve. price differentials between sweet and sour crude oils, ans, wti and lls crude oils and other market structure differentials also affect our operating results. demand for gasoline, diesel fuel and asphalt is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets, primarily due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and construction. as a result, the operating results for our refining &amp; marketing segment for the first and fourth quarters may be lower than for those in the second and third quarters of each calendar year. retail our retail segment sells gasoline, diesel and merchandise through convenience stores that it owns and operates, primarily under the speedway brand, as well as through direct dealer locations. our company-owned and operated convenience stores offer a wide variety of merchandise, including prepared foods, beverages and non-food items. speedway's speedy rewards loyalty program has been a highly successful loyalty program since its inception in 2004, with a consistently growing base which averaged approximately 6.2 million active members in 2018 . speedway's ability to capture and analyze member-specific transactional data enables us to offer speedy rewards members discounts and promotions specific to their buying behavior. we believe speedy rewards is a key reason customers choose speedway over competitors and it continues to drive significant value for both speedway and our speedy rewards members. as of december 31, 2018 , our retail segment had 3,923 company-owned and operated convenience stores across the united states. we acquired approximately 1,100 company-owned and operated retail convenience stores and fuel only locations as part of the andeavor acquisition in the western and mid-continental regions of the united states. in addition, we acquired long-term supply contracts for 1,065 direct dealer locations primarily in southern california, largely under the arco brand, which are also included in our retail segment. speedway also owns a 29 percent interest in pfj southeast llc ( pfj southeast ), which is a joint venture between speedway and pilot flying j with 127 travel center locations primarily in the southeast united states as of december 31, 2018 . we also own supermom's , a high-quality bakery and commissary. the locations and detailed information about our retail assets are included under item 2. properties and are incorporated herein by reference. competition, market conditions and seasonality we face strong competition for sales of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. our competitors include service stations and convenience stores operated by fully integrated major oil companies, independent entrepreneurs and other well-recognized national or regional convenience stores and travel centers, often selling gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise at competitive prices. non-traditional retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, have affected the convenience store industry with their entrance into sales of retail gasoline and diesel fuel. energy analysts international, inc. estimated such retailers had approximately 16 percent of the u.s. gasoline market in mid- 2018 . 12 table of contents demand for gasoline and diesel fuel is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets, primarily due to seasonal increases in highway traffic. as a result, the operating results for our retail segment for the first and fourth quarters may be lower than for those in the second and third quarters of each calendar year. margins from the sale of merchandise tend to be less volatile than margins from the retail sale of gasoline and diesel fuel. midstream the midstream segment primarily includes the operations of mplx and andx, our sponsored master limited partnerships, which transport, store, distribute and market crude oil and refined products principally for the refining &amp; marketing segment via refining logistics assets, pipelines, terminals, towboats and barges; gather, process and transport natural gas; and gather, transport, fractionate, store and market ngls. the midstream segment also includes certain related operations retained by mpc. mplx mplx owns and operates a network of crude oil, natural gas and product pipelines and has joint ownership interests in other crude oil and products pipelines. mplx also owns and operates light products terminals, storage assets and maintains a fleet of owned and leased towboats and barges. mplx's assets also include natural gas gathering complexes, natural gas processing complexes and ngl fractionation complexes. on february 1, 2018, we contributed our refining logistics assets to mplx, which include rail and truck loading racks and docks. andx andx owns and operates a network of crude oil, natural gas, product and water pipelines and has joint ownership interests in other crude oil and natural gas pipelines. andx owns and operates light products, asphalt and crude terminals, storage assets and barge docks. andx's assets also include natural gas gathering complexes, natural gas processing complexes and ngl fractionation complexes. mpc-retained midstream assets and investments we retained ownership interests in several crude oil and products pipeline systems and pipeline companies and have indirect ownership interests in two ocean vessel joint ventures with crowley through our investment in crowley coastal partners. the locations and detailed information about our midstream assets are included under item 2. properties and are incorporated herein by reference. competition, market conditions and seasonality our midstream operations face competition for natural gas gathering, crude oil transportation and in obtaining natural gas supplies for our processing and related services; in obtaining unprocessed ngls for gathering and fractionation; and in marketing our products and services. competition for natural gas supplies is based primarily on the location of gas gathering facilities and gas processing plants, operating efficiency and reliability and the ability to obtain a satisfactory price for products recovered. competitive factors affecting our fractionation services include availability of capacity, proximity to supply and industry marketing centers and cost efficiency and reliability of service. competition for customers to purchase our natural gas and ngls is based primarily on price, delivery capabilities, flexibility and maintenance of high-quality customer relationships. in addition, certain of our midstream operations are highly regulated, which affects the rates that our common carrier pipelines can charge for transportation services and the return we obtain from such pipelines. our midstream segment can be affected by seasonal fluctuations in the demand for natural gas and ngls and the related fluctuations in commodity prices caused by various factors such as changes in transportation and travel patterns and variations in weather patterns from year to year. environmental matters our management is responsible for ensuring that our operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that support and foster our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and for reviewing our overall environmental performance. we also have a corporate emergency response team that oversees our response to any major environmental or other emergency incident involving us or any of our facilities. we believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to issues concerning the extent and causes of climate change will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations. currently, legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gases are in various phases of review, discussion or implementation. the cost to comply with these laws and regulations cannot be estimated at this time, but could be significant. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors. we estimate and publicly report greenhouse gas emissions from our operations and products. additionally, we continuously strive to improve operational and energy efficiencies through resource and energy conservation where practicable. 13 table of contents our operations are subject to numerous other laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. such laws and regulations include, among others, the clean air act ( caa ) with respect to air emissions, the clean water act ( cwa ) with respect to water discharges, the resource conservation and recovery act ( rcra ) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ( cercla ) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances and the oil pollution act of 1990 ( opa-90 ) with respect to oil pollution and response. in addition, many states where we operate have similar laws. new laws are being enacted and regulations are being adopted on a continuing basis, and the costs of compliance with such new laws and regulations are very difficult to estimate until finalized. for a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-environmental matters and compliance costs. air greenhouse gas emissions we are subject to many requirements in connection with air emissions from our operations. internationally and domestically, emphasis has been placed on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. in 2018, the trump administration continued its shift in climate-related policy away from the obama administration's policies. one of the major policy shifts is related to the administration's efforts to repeal and replace the clean power plan. on august 21, 2018, the u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) proposed the affordable clean energy ( ace ) rule, which would establish emission guidelines for states to develop plans to address greenhouse gas emissions from existing coal-fired power plants. the ace rule would replace the 2015 clean power plan, which had been stayed by the u.s. supreme court. president trump also announced the united states' intention to withdraw from the 2015 paris un climate change conference agreement, which aims to hold the increase in the global average temperature to well below two degrees celsius as compared to pre-industrial levels. many of the policies and regulations rescinded through executive order 13783 had been adopted to meet the united states' pledge under the agreement. the u.s. climate change strategy and implementation of that strategy through legislation and regulation may change under future administrations; therefore, the impact to our industry and operations due to greenhouse gas regulation is unknown at this time. in 2009, the epa issued an endangerment finding that greenhouse gas emissions contribute to air pollution that endangers public health and welfare. related to the endangerment finding, in april 2010, the epa finalized a greenhouse gas emission standard for mobile sources (cars and other light duty vehicles). the endangerment finding, the mobile source standard and the epa's determination that greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the clean air act resulted in permitting of greenhouse gas emissions at stationary sources. through a series of legal challenges filed against the epa, the requirement to control greenhouse gas emissions through best available control technology has been limited to new and modified large stationary sources, such as refineries, that will also emit a criteria pollutant. implementing best available control technology may result in increased costs to our operations. in the absence of federal legislation or regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, states are becoming more active in regulating greenhouse gas emissions. these measures may include state actions to develop statewide or regional programs to impose emission reductions. these measures may also include low-carbon fuel standards, such as the california program, or a state carbon tax. these measures could result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, capital expenditures to install new emission controls and costs to administer any carbon trading or tax programs implemented. for example, in california, the state legislature adopted sb 32 in 2016. sb 32 set a cap on emissions of 40% below 1990 levels by 2030 but did not establish a particular mechanism to achieve that target. the legislature also adopted a companion bill, ab 197, that most significantly directs the carb to prioritize direct emission reductions on large stationary sources. in 2017, the state legislature adopted ab 398 which provides direction and parameters on utilizing cap and trade after 2020 to meet the 40% reduction target from 1990 levels by 2030 specified in sb 32. compliance with the cap and trade program is demonstrated through a market-based credit system. the compliance costs associated with these california regulations are ultimately passed on to the consumer in the form of higher fuel costs. we cannot currently predict the impact of these regulations on our liquidity, financial position, or results of operations, but we do not believe such impact will be material. we could also face increased climate-related litigation with respect to our operations or products. private party litigation seeking damages and injunctive relief is pending against mpc and other oil and gas companies in multiple jurisdictions. although uncertain, these actions could increase our costs of operations or reduce the demand for the refined products we produce, transport, store and sell. private parties have also sued federal and certain state governmental entities seeking additional greenhouse gas emission reductions beyond those currently being undertaken. in sum, requiring reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any greenhouse gas emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments. these requirements 14 table of contents may also significantly affect mpc's refinery operations and may have an indirect effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the extent and magnitude of the impact from greenhouse gas regulation or legislation cannot be reasonably estimated due to the uncertainty regarding the additional measures and how they will be implemented. regardless of whether legislation or regulation is enacted, given the continuing global demand for oil and gas - even under different hypothetical carbon-constrained scenarios - mpc has taken actions that have resulted in lower greenhouse gas emission intensity and we are positioned to remain a successful company well into the future. we have instituted a program to improve energy efficiency of our refineries and other assets which will continue to pay dividends in reducing our environmental footprint as well as making us more cost-competitive. we believe our mature governance and risk-management processes enable the company to effectively monitor and adjust to any transitional, reputational or physical climate-related risks. clean air act in 2015, the epa finalized a revision to the national ambient air quality standards ( naaqs ) for ozone. the epa lowered the primary ozone naaqs from 75 ppb to 70 ppb. this revision initiated a multi-year process in which nonattainment designations will be made based on more recent ozone measurements that includes data from 2016. on november 6, 2017, the epa finalized ozone attainment/unclassifiable designations for certain areas under the new standard. in actions dated april 30, 2018, and july 25, 2018, the epa finalized nonattainment designations for certain areas under the lower primary ozone standard. in some areas, these nonattainment designations could result in increased costs associated with, or result in cancellation or delay of, capital projects at our facilities. for areas designated nonattainment, states will be required to adopt state implementation plans ( sips ) for nonattainment areas. these sips may include nox and/or volatile organic compound ( voc ) reductions that could result in increased costs to our facilities. we cannot predict the effects of the various sips requirements at this time. in california, the board for the south coast air quality management district ( scaqmd ) passed amendments to the regional clean air incentives market ( reclaim ) that became effective in 2016, requiring a staged reduction of nitrogen oxide emissions through 2022. in 2017, the state of california passed ab 617, which requires each air district that is a nonattainment area for one or more air pollutants to adopt an expedited schedule for implementation of best available retrofit control technology ( barct ) on specific facilities. barct applies to all facilities subject to reclaim. in response to ab 617, the scaqmd is currently working to sunset the existing reclaim program and replace it with applicable barct regulations. water we maintain numerous discharge permits as required under the national pollutant discharge elimination system program of the cwa and have implemented systems to oversee our compliance with these permits. in addition, we are regulated under opa-90, which among other things, requires the owner or operator of a tank vessel or a facility to maintain an emergency plan to respond to releases of oil or hazardous substances. opa-90 also requires the responsible company to pay resulting removal costs and damages and provides for civil penalties and criminal sanctions for violations of its provisions. we operate tank vessels and facilities from which spills of oil and hazardous substances could occur. we have implemented emergency oil response plans for all of our components and facilities covered by opa-90 and we have established spill prevention, control and countermeasures plans for all facilities subject to such requirements. additionally, opa-90 requires that new tank vessels entering or operating in u.s. waters be double-hulled and that existing tank vessels that are not double-hulled be retrofitted or removed from u.s. service. all barges used for river transport of our raw materials and refined products meet the double-hulled requirements of opa-90. some coastal states in which we operate have passed state laws similar to opa-90, but with expanded liability provisions, that include provisions for cargo owner responsibility as well as ship owner and operator responsibility. in june 2015, the epa and the united states army corps of engineers finalized significant changes to the definition of the term waters of the united states used in numerous programs under the cwa. this final rulemaking is referred to as the clean water rule. the clean water rule, as written, expands permitting, planning and reporting obligations and may extend the timing to secure permits for pipeline and fixed asset construction and maintenance activities. the clean water rule has been challenged in multiple federal courts by many states, trade groups, and other interested parties, and in october 2015, a united states court of appeals issued a nationwide stay of the clean water rule. on appeal, however, the supreme court determined that the court of appeals did not have original jurisdiction to review challenges to the 2015 rule. as such, legal challenges to the rule will proceed in federal district courts. three federal district courts have stayed the clean water rule in twenty-eight states. concurrent with the legal challenges, on february 28, 2017, president trump signed executive order 13778, directing the epa and the army corps of engineers to review the 2015 rule for consistency with the policy outlined in the order, and to issue a proposed rule rescinding or revising the 2015 rule as appropriate and consistent with law. on december 11, 2018, the 15 table of contents epa and the army corps of engineers announced its proposed new definition of waters of the united states. the proposal, once finalized, would replace the 2015 clean water rule. in 2015, the epa issued its intent to review the cwa categorical effluent limitation guidelines ( elg ) for the petroleum refining sector. during 2017, the epa prepared and issued an information request ( icr ) requesting significant wastewater and treatment process details from select refineries, seven of which were ours. responses to the icr were submitted to the epa in early 2018. as of late 2018, the epa is in the process of reviewing the icr response data submitted and determining the next steps for the elg review. epa may also perform sampling of effluent at one or more of our refineries. the epa has indicated they believe there have been significant changes in the characteristics of waste waters generated within refining operations that warrant the review. specific targets for the review are the impacts of processing heavier crude oils and the transfer of air pollutants to wastewater when air pollution abatement devices are in use. a similar project, initiated in 2007 for steam electric power generation with similar attributes, resulted in a significant change in the treatment requirements for coal-fired power plants. however, on september 18, 2017, the epa postponed certain compliance dates while it conducts a rulemaking to revise the elgs for power plants. the refining sector elg review has the potential to result in a similar impact. the typical life-cycle for an elg review from the intent to review to issuance of a final rule that would require upgrades is seven years. the impact of an elg review cannot be accurately estimated at this time. solid waste we continue to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. rcra establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. besides affecting waste disposal practices, rcra also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of usts containing regulated substances. pursuant to an order received in 2004 from the san francisco bay regional water quality control board, we are performing remediation of certain waste management units and completing investigations of the design conditions of certain active wastewater and storm water impoundments at our martinez refinery. the investigative and remedial costs associated with the 2004 order could have a material impact on our results of operations. the costs that are estimable and probable at this time have been accrued. remediation we own or operate, or have owned or operated, certain convenience stores and other locations where, during the normal course of operations, releases of refined products from usts have occurred. federal and state laws require that contamination caused by such releases at these sites be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards. penalties or other sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance. the enforcement of the ust regulations under rcra has been delegated to the states, which administer their own ust programs. our obligation to remediate such contamination varies, depending on the extent of the releases and the stringency of the applicable state laws and regulations. a portion of these remediation costs may be recoverable from the appropriate state ust reimbursement funds once the applicable deductibles have been satisfied. we also have ongoing remediation projects at a number of our current and former refinery, terminal and pipeline locations. claims under cercla and similar state acts have been raised with respect to the clean-up of various waste disposal and other sites. cercla is intended to facilitate the clean-up of hazardous substances without regard to fault. potentially responsible parties for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the hazardous substances at the site. liability is strict and can be joint and several. because of various factors including the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and clean-up costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, we are unable to reasonably estimate our ultimate cost of compliance with cercla; however, we do not believe such costs will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. mileage standards, renewable fuels and other fuels requirements the u.s. congress passed the energy independence and security act of 2007 ( eisa ), which, among other things, set a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the united states by model year 2020, and contains the rfs2. in august 2012, the epa and the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ) jointly adopted regulations that establish average industry fleet fuel economy standards for passenger cars and light trucks of up to 41 miles per gallon by model year 2021 and average fleet fuel economy standards of up to 49.7 miles per gallon by model year 2025. in 2018, the epa and the nhtsa jointly proposed the safer affordable fuel-efficient vehicles rules for model years 2021-2026, which would propose new corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) standards for model years 2022 through 2026, amend the 2021 model year cafe standards, amend the epa's carbon dioxide emission standards for model years 2021 through 2025, and establish new carbon dioxide emission standards for model year 2026. the epa's preferred alternative is to retain the model year 2020 standards for both programs through model year 2026. the standards established by the final regulation may 16 table of contents differ. additionally, california may establish per its clean air act waiver authority different standards that could apply in multiple states. higher cafe standards for cars and light trucks have the potential to reduce demand for our transportation fuels. new or alternative transportation fuels such as compressed natural gas could also pose a competitive threat to our operations. the rfs2 requires the total volume of renewable transportation fuels sold or introduced annually in the u.s. to reach 26.0 billion gallons in 2018, 28.0 billion gallons in 2019, and increase to 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. within the total volume of renewable fuel, eisa established an advanced biofuel volume of 11.0 billion gallons in 2018, 13.0 billion gallons in 2019, and increasing to 21.0 billion gallons in 2022. subsets within the advanced biofuel volume include biomass-based diesel, which was set as at least 1.0 billion gallons in 2014 through 2022 (to be determined by the epa through rulemaking), and cellulosic biofuel, which was set at 7.0 billion gallons in 2018, 8.5 billion gallons in 2019, and increasing to 16.0 billion gallons in 2022. on november 30, 2015, the epa finalized the renewable fuel standards for the years of 2014, 2015 and 2016 as well as the biomass-based diesel standard for 2017. in a legal challenge to the 2014-2016 volumes, the court vacated the total renewable volume for 2016 and remanded to the epa for reconsideration consistent with the court's opinion. a remanded rule that increases the 2016 total renewable volume could increase our cost of compliance with the renewable fuel standards and be detrimental to the rin market. the 2017 and 2018 rfs volumes have also been challenged in court. on november 30, 2018, the epa finalized rfs volume requirements for the year 2019, and the biomass-based diesel volume requirement for year 2020. the epa used its cellulosic waiver authority to reduce the volumes for 2019 from the statutory amounts to the following: 19.92 billion gallons total renewable fuel; 4.92 billion gallons advanced biofuel; and 418 million gallons cellulosic biofuel. the epa set the biomass-based diesel volume requirement for 2020 at 2.43 billion gallons, which is significantly greater than the statutory floor of 1.0 billion gallons. the rfs2 is satisfied primarily with ethanol blended into gasoline. vehicle, regulatory and infrastructure constraints limit the blending of significantly more than 10 percent ethanol into gasoline ( e10 ). since 2016, the volume requirements have resulted in the ethanol content of gasoline exceeding the e10 blendwall, which will require obligated parties to either sell e15 or ethanol flex fuel at levels that exceed historical levels or retire carryover rins. we have made investments in infrastructure capable of expanding biodiesel blending capability to help comply with the annually-increasing biodiesel rfs2 requirement by buying and blending biodiesel into our refined diesel product, and by buying needed biodiesel rins in the epa-created biodiesel rins market. on april 1, 2014, we purchased a facility in cincinnati, ohio, which currently produces biodiesel, glycerin and other by-products. as a producer of biodiesel, we generate rins, thereby reducing our reliance on the external rin market. in november 2017, the epa finalized its decision to deny petitions requesting that the point of obligation for the rfs2 be moved to the terminal rack. the epa's final decision was challenged in court and should the court decide that epa's decision was incorrect and move the point of obligation, we could be subject to increased costs and compliance uncertainties. in addition to federal renewable fuel standards, certain states have, or are considering, promulgation of state renewable or low carbon fuel standards. for example, california began implementing its low carbon fuel standard ( lcfs ) in january 2011. in september 2015, the carb approved the re-adoption of the lcfs, which became effective on january 1, 2016, to address procedural deficiencies in the way the original regulation was adopted. the lcfs was amended again in 2018 with the current version targeting a 20 percent reduction in fuel carbon intensity from a 2010 baseline by 2030. in sum, the rfs2 has required, and may in the future continue to require, additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. we may experience a decrease in demand for refined products due to an increase in combined fleet mileage or due to refined products being replaced by renewable fuels. demand for our refined products also may decrease as a result of low carbon fuel standard programs or electric vehicle mandates. on march 3, 2014, the epa signed the final tier 3 fuel standards. the final tier 3 fuel standards require, among other things, a lower annual average sulfur level in gasoline to no more than 10 ppm beginning in calendar year 2017. in addition, gasoline refiners and importers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 80 ppm while retailers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 95 ppm. from 2014 through 2018, we made approximately $490 million in capital expenditures to comply with these standards, and expect to make approximately $260 million in capital expenditures for these standards in 2019. tribal lands various federal agencies, including the epa and the department of the interior, along with certain native american tribes, promulgate and enforce regulations pertaining to oil and gas operations on native american tribal lands where we operate. these regulations include such matters as lease provisions, drilling and production requirements, and standards to protect 17 table of contents environmental quality and cultural resources. for example, the epa has established a preconstruction permitting program for new and modified minor sources throughout indian country, and new and modified major sources in nonattainment areas in indian country. in addition, each native american tribe is a sovereign nation having the right to enforce certain laws and regulations and to grant approvals independent from federal, state and local statutes and regulations. these laws and regulations may increase our costs of doing business on native american tribal lands and impact the viability of, or prevent or delay our ability to conduct, our operations on such lands. trademarks, patents and licenses o ur marathon trademark is material to the conduct of our refining and marketing operations, and our speedway and arco trademarks are material to the conduct of our retail operations. additionally, the retail and marketing businesses we acquired in the andeavor acquisition primarily use the shell and mobil brands for fuel sales and ampm and giant brands for convenience store merchandise. we currently hold a number of u.s. and foreign patents and have various pending patent applications. although in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important to us, we do not regard any single patent or license or group of related patents or licenses as critical or essential to our business as a whole. in general, we depend on our technological capabilities and the application of know-how rather than patents and licenses in the conduct of our operations. employees we had approximately 60,350 regular full-time and part-time employees as of december 31, 2018 , which includes approximately 40,230 employees of our retail segment. approximately 4,780 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. of these employees, approximately 1,465 employees at our galveston bay, mandan and martinez refineries are covered by collective bargaining agreements which were set to expire on january 31, 2019. the parties continue their negotiations toward a new agreement, and are working under rolling extensions. approximately 425 employees at our martinez chemical plant, our los angeles refinery and our galveston bay refinery are covered by collective bargaining agreements expiring over the next several months. approximately 410 hourly employees at speedway are represented under collective bargaining agreements. the majority of these employees work at certain retail locations in new york and new jersey under agreements which expire on march 14, 2019 and june 30, 2019, respectively. the remaining speedway represented employees are drivers in minnesota under an agreement which expires in 2021. approximately 300 employees at our st. paul park and gallup refineries are covered by collective bargaining agreements scheduled to expire in 2020. approximately 1,620 employees at our anacortes, canton, catlettsburg, los angeles, and salt lake city refineries are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are due to expire in 2022. the remaining 560 hourly represented employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with expiration dates ranging from 2021 to 2024. 18 table of contents executive and corporate officers of the registrant the executive and corporate officers of mpc are as follows: name age as of february 1, 2019 position with mpc gary r. heminger 65 chairman and chief executive officer gregory j. goff 62 executive vice chairman molly r. benson (a) 52 vice president, chief securities, governance &amp; compliance officer and corporate secretary raymond l. brooks 58 executive vice president, refining c. tracy case (a) 58 senior vice president, western refining operations suzanne gagle 53 general counsel timothy t. griffith 49 senior vice president and chief financial officer david r. heppner (a) 52 vice president, commercial and business development richard a. hernandez (a) 59 senior vice president, eastern refining operations rick d. hessling (a) 52 senior vice president, crude oil supply and logistics thomas kaczynski 57 vice president, finance and treasurer kristina a. kazarian (a) 36 vice president, investor relations anthony r. kenney 65 president, speedway llc fiona c. laird (a) 57 chief human resources officer d. rick linhardt (a) 60 vice president, tax brian k. partee (a) 45 senior vice president, marketing glenn m. plumby (a) 59 senior vice president and chief operating officer, speedway llc john j. quaid 47 vice president and controller david r. sauber (a) 55 senior vice president, labor relations, operations, health and administrative services donald c. templin 55 president, refining, marketing and supply karma m. thomson (a) 51 vice president, corporate affairs donald w. wehrly (a) 59 vice president and chief information officer david l. whikehart (a) 59 senior vice president, light products, supply and logistics james r. wilkins (a) 52 vice president, environment, safety and security (a) corporate officer. mr. heminger is chairman of the board and chief executive officer. he has served as the chairman of the board since april 2016 and as chief executive officer since june 2011. mr. heminger also served as president from july 2011 until june 2017. mr. goff was appointed executive vice chairman effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, mr. goff was president and chief executive officer of andeavor beginning in may 2010 and chairman of its board of directors beginning in december 2014. ms. benson was appointed vice president, chief compliance officer and corporate secretary in march 2016 and chief securities and governance officer in may 2018. prior to her appointment in 2016, ms. benson was assistant general counsel, corporate and finance beginning in april 2012. mr. brooks was appointed executive vice president, refining effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, mr. brooks was senior vice president, refining beginning in march 2016. previously, mr. brooks served as general manager of the galveston bay refinery beginning in february 2013, and general manager of the robinson refinery beginning in 2010. mr. case was appointed senior vice president, western refining operations effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, mr. case was general manager of the garyville refinery beginning in december 2014. previously, mr. case served as general manager of the detroit refinery beginning in june 2010. ms. gagle was appointed general counsel in march 2016. prior to this appointment, ms. gagle was assistant general counsel, litigation and human resources beginning in april 2011. 19 table of contents mr. griffith was appointed senior vice president and chief financial officer in march 2015. prior to this appointment, mr. griffith served as vice president, finance and investor relations, and treasurer beginning in january 2014. previously, mr. griffith was vice president of finance and treasurer beginning in august 2011. mr. heppner was appointed vice president, commercial and business development effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, mr. heppner was senior vice president of engineering services and corporate support of speedway llc beginning in september 2014. previously, mr. heppner served as director, wholesale marketing beginning in january 2010. mr. hernandez was appointed senior vice president, eastern refining operations effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, mr. hernandez was general manager of the galveston bay refinery beginning in february 2016. previously, mr. hernandez served as the general manager of the catlettsburg refinery beginning in june 2013. mr. hessling was appointed senior vice president, crude oil supply and logistics effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, mr. hessling was manager, crude oil &amp; natural gas supply and trading beginning in september 2014. previously, mr. hessling served as crude oil logistics &amp; analysis manager beginning in july 2011. mr. kaczynski was appointed vice president, finance and treasurer in august 2015. prior to this appointment, mr. kaczynski was vice president and treasurer of goodyear tire and rubber company, one of the world's largest tire manufacturers, beginning in 2014. previously, mr. kaczynski served as vice president, investor relations, of goodyear tire and rubber company beginning in 2013. ms. kazarian was appointed vice president, investor relations in april 2018. prior to this appointment, ms. kazarian was managing director and head of the mlp, midstream and refining equity research teams at credit suisse, a global investment bank and financial services company, beginning in september 2017. previously, ms. kazarian worked at deutsche bank, a global investment bank and financial services company, as managing director of mlp, midstream and natural gas equity research beginning in september 2014, and as an analyst specializing on various energy industry subsectors with fidelity management &amp; research company, a privately held investment manager, beginning in 2005. mr. kenney has served as president of speedway llc since august 2005. ms. laird was appointed chief human resources officer effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, ms. laird was chief human resources officer at andeavor beginning in february 2018. previously, ms. laird was the chief human resources and communications officer for newell brands, a global consumer goods company, beginning in may 2016 and executive vice president, human resources for unilever, a global consumer goods company, beginning in july 2011. mr. linhardt was appointed vice president, tax in february 2018. prior to this appointment, mr. linhardt served as director of tax beginning in june 2017. previously, mr. linhardt served as manager of tax compliance beginning in may 2013. mr. partee was appointed senior vice president, marketing effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, mr. partee served as vice president, business development beginning in february 2018. previously, mr. partee was director of business development beginning in january 2017, manager of crude oil logistics beginning in september 2014 and vice president, business development and franchise at speedway beginning in november 2012. mr. plumby was named senior vice president and chief operating officer, speedway llc in january 2018 and was appointed an officer of mpc in february 2019. previously, mr. plumby was senior vice president of operations of speedway llc beginning in september 2013 and vice president of operations of speedway llc beginning in december 2010. mr. quaid was appointed vice president and controller in june 2014. prior to this appointment, mr. quaid was vice president of iron ore at united states steel corporation ( u.s. steel ), an integrated steel producer, beginning in january 2014. previously, mr. quaid served as vice president and treasurer at u.s. steel beginning in august 2011. mr. sauber was appointed senior vice president, labor relations, operations, health and administrative services effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, mr. sauber was senior vice president, human resources, health and administrative services beginning in january 2018, and vice president, human resources and labor relations beginning february 2017. previously, mr. sauber was vice president, human resources policy, benefits and services of shell oil company, a global energy and petrochemical company, beginning in 2013. mr. templin was appointed president, refining, marketing and supply effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, mr. templin served as president beginning in july 2017; executive vice president beginning in january 2016; executive vice president, supply, transportation and marketing beginning in march 2015; and senior vice president and chief financial officer beginning in june 2011. 20 table of contents ms. thomson was appointed vice president, corporate affairs effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, ms. thomson served as vice president of andeavor logistics beginning in june 2017. previously , at andeavor , ms. thomson served as vice president, salt lake city refinery beginning in october 2012. mr. wehrly was appointed vice president and chief information officer effective june 2011. mr. whikehart was appointed senior vice president, light products, supply and logistics effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, mr. whikehart served as vice president, environment, safety and corporate affairs effective february 2016. previously, mr. whikehart served as vice president, corporate planning, government &amp; public affairs beginning in january 2016, and director, product supply and optimization beginning in march 2011. mr. wilkins was appointed vice president, environment, safety and security effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, mr. wilkins was director, environment, safety, security and product quality beginning february 2016. previously, mr. wilkins served as director, refining environmental, safety, security and process safety management beginning in june 2013. available information general information about mpc, including corporate governance principles and charters for the audit committee, compensation committee and corporate governance and nominating committee, can be found at www.marathonpetroleum.com by selecting investors under corporate governance and board of directors . in addition, our code of business conduct and code of ethics for senior financial officers are also available in this same location. we will post on our website any amendments to, or waivers from, either of our codes requiring disclosure under applicable rules within four business days of the amendment or waiver. mpc uses its website, www.marathonpetroleum.com , as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, financial information and market data. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished with the sec. these documents are also available in hard copy, free of charge, by contacting our investor relations office. in addition, our website allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive email alerts when we post news releases and financial information on our website. information contained on our website is not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k or other securities filings. item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k in evaluating us and our common stock. some of these risks relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate, while others relate to the ownership of our common stock. our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks, and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline. risks relating to our business a substantial or extended decline in refining and marketing margins would reduce our operating results and cash flows and could materially and adversely impact our future rate of growth, the carrying value of our assets and our ability to execute share repurchases and continue the payment of our base dividend. our operating results, cash flows, future rate of growth, the carrying value of our assets and our ability to execute share repurchases and continue the payment of our base dividend are highly dependent on the margins we realize on our refined products. historically, refining and marketing margins have been volatile, and we believe they will continue to be volatile. our margins from the sale of gasoline and other refined products are influenced by a number of conditions, including the price of crude oil. the price of crude oil and the price at which we can sell our refined products may fluctuate independently due to a variety of regional and global market factors that are beyond our control, including: worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for crude oil and refined products; the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks to be manufactured into refined products; the prices realized for refined products; 21 table of contents transportation infrastructure availability, local market conditions and operation levels of other refineries in our markets; utilization rates of refineries; natural gas and electricity supply costs incurred by refineries; the ability of the members of opec to agree to and maintain production controls; political instability, threatened or actual terrorist incidents, armed conflict, or other global political conditions; local weather conditions; seasonality of demand in our marketing area due to increased highway traffic in the spring and summer months; natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornadoes; the price and availability of alternative and competing forms of energy; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and local, regional, national and worldwide economic conditions. some of these factors can vary by region and may change quickly, adding to market volatility, while others may have longer-term effects. the longer-term effects of these and other factors on refining and marketing margins are uncertain. we purchase our crude oil and other refinery feedstocks weeks before we refine them and sell the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. we also purchase refined products manufactured by others for resale to our customers. price changes during the periods between purchasing and reselling those refined products also could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. lower refining and marketing margins may reduce the amount of refined products we produce, which may reduce our revenues, income from operations and cash flows. significant reductions in refining and marketing margins could require us to reduce our capital expenditures, impair the carrying value of our assets (such as property, plant and equipment, inventory or goodwill), and decrease or eliminate our share repurchase activity and our base dividend. our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. failure to manage risks associated with business interruptions could adversely impact our operations, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to business interruptions such as scheduled refinery turnarounds, unplanned maintenance or unplanned events such as explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents, power outages, severe weather, labor disputes, or other natural or man-made disasters, such as acts of terrorism. for example, pipelines or railroads provide a nearly-exclusive form of transportation of crude oil to, or refined products from, some of our refineries. in such instances, a prolonged interruption, material reduction or cessation of service of such a pipeline or railway, whether due to private party or governmental action or other reason, could materially and adversely affect the operations, profitability and cash flows of the impacted refinery. explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents involving our assets or operations may result in serious personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property and equipment, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us. damages resulting from an incident involving any of our assets or operations may result in our being named as a defendant in one or more lawsuits asserting potentially substantial claims or in our being assessed potentially substantial fines by governmental authorities. in addition, we operate in and adjacent to environmentally sensitive waters where tanker, pipeline, rail car and refined product transportation and storage operations are closely regulated by federal, state and local agencies and monitored by environmental interest groups. our coastal refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks by tanker. in addition, our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks by rail car, truck and barge. transportation and storage of crude oil, other feedstocks and refined products over and adjacent to water involves inherent risk and subjects us to the provisions of the opa-90 and state laws in u.s. coastal and great lakes states and states bordering inland waterways on which we operate, as well as international laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. if we are unable to promptly and adequately contain any accident or discharge involving tankers, pipelines, rail cars or above ground storage tanks transporting or storing crude oil, other feedstocks or refined products, we may be subject to substantial liability. in addition, the service providers we have contracted to aid us in a discharge response may be unavailable due to weather conditions, governmental regulations or other local or global events. international, federal or state rulings could divert our response resources to other global events. 22 table of contents we do not insure against all potential losses, and, therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected liabilities and increased costs. we maintain insurance coverage in amounts we believe to be prudent against many, but not all, potential liabilities arising from operating hazards. uninsured liabilities arising from operating hazards, including but not limited to, explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases, cybersecurity breaches or other incidents involving our assets or operations, could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. marine vessel charter agreements may not provide complete indemnity for oil spills, and any marine charterer's liability insurance we carry may not cover all losses. historically, we also have maintained insurance coverage for physical damage and resulting business interruption to our major facilities, with significant self-insured retentions. in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance of the types and amounts we desire at reasonable rates. we rely on the performance of our information technology systems, and the interruption or failure of any information technology system, including an interruption or failure due to a cybersecurity breach, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are heavily dependent on our information technology systems, including our network infrastructure and cloud applications, for the effective operation of our business. we rely on such systems to process, transmit and store electronic information, including financial records and personally identifiable information such as employee, customer, investor and payroll data, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including our supply chain, pipeline operations, gathering and processing operations, retail sales, credit card payments and authorizations at our retail outlets, financial transactions, banking and numerous other processes and transactions. these information systems involve data network and telecommunications, internet access and website functionality, and various computer hardware equipment and software applications, including those that are critical to the safe operation of our business. our systems and infrastructure are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources including natural disasters, software viruses or other malware, power failures, cyber-attacks and other events. we also face various other cybersecurity threats from criminal hackers, state-sponsored intrusion, industrial espionage and employee malfeasance, including threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable. to protect against such attempts of unauthorized access or attack, we have implemented multiple layers of cybersecurity protections, infrastructure protection technologies, disaster recovery plans and employee training. while we have invested significant amounts in the protection of our technology systems and maintain what we believe are adequate security controls over personally identifiable customer, investor and employee data, there can be no guarantee such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be effective. certain vendors have access to sensitive information, including personally identifiable customer, investor and employee data and a breakdown of their technology systems or infrastructure as a result of a cyber-attack or otherwise could result in unauthorized disclosure of such information. unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or personally identifiable information, including by cyber-attacks or other security breach, could cause loss of data, give rise to remediation or other expenses, expose us to liability under federal and state laws, reduce our customers' willingness to do business with us, disrupt the services we provide to customers and subject us to litigation and investigations, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. state and federal cybersecurity legislation could also impose new requirements, which could increase our cost of doing business. competition in our industry is intense, and very aggressive competition could adversely impact our business. we compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. competitors with integrated operations with exploration and production resources and broader access to resources may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions and to bear the risks inherent in the refining industry. for example, competitors that engage in exploration and production of crude oil may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. we also face strong competition in the market for the sale of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. our competitors include outlets owned or operated by fully integrated major oil companies or their dealers or jobbers, and other well-recognized national or regional retail outlets, often selling gasoline or merchandise at very competitive prices. several non-traditional retailers such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants are in the retail business. these non-traditional gasoline retailers have obtained a significant share of the transportation fuels market and we expect their market share to grow. because of their diversity, integration of operations, experienced management and greater financial resources, these companies may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions or levels of low or no profitability in the retail segment of the market. in addition, these retailers may use promotional pricing or discounts, both at the pump and in the store, to encourage in-store merchandise sales. these activities by our competitors could pressure us to offer similar discounts, adversely affecting our profit margins. 23 table of contents additionally, the loss of market share by our convenience stores to these and other retailers relating to either gasoline or merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the development, availability and marketing of alternative and competing fuels in the retail market could adversely impact our business. we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel needs of our consumers. increased competition from these alternatives as a result of governmental regulations, technological advances and consumer demand could have an impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability. we are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil and refined products. we utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil and refined products to and from our refineries. in addition to our own operational risks discussed above, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines, railways or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations or third-party actions. a prolonged disruption of the ability of the trucks, pipelines, railways or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products to or from one or more of our refineries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our investments in joint ventures decrease our ability to manage risk. we conduct some of our operations through joint ventures in which we share control over certain economic and business interests with our joint venture partners. our joint venture partners may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals and interests or may be unable to meet their obligations. failure by us, or an entity in which we have a joint-venture interest, to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our joint ventures and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may incur losses to our business as a result of our forward-contract activities and derivative transactions. we currently use commodity derivative instruments, and we expect to enter into these types of transactions in the future. a failure of a futures commission merchant or counterparty to perform would affect these transactions. to the extent the instruments we utilize to manage these exposures are not effective, we may incur losses related to the ineffective portion of the derivative transaction or costs related to moving the derivative positions to another futures commission merchant or counterparty once a failure has occurred. we have significant debt obligations; therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed by a deterioration of our credit profile, a decrease in debt capacity or unsecured commercial credit available to us, or by factors adversely affecting credit markets generally. at december 31, 2018, our total debt obligations for borrowed money and capital lease obligations were $ 27.98 billion , including $13.86 billion of obligations of mplx and $5.01 billion of obligations of andx. we may incur substantial additional debt obligations in the future. our indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could have material adverse consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends and other purposes. a decrease in our debt or commercial credit capacity, including unsecured credit extended by third-party suppliers, or a deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and/or limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit. our credit rating is determined by independent credit rating agencies. we cannot provide assurance that any of our credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn 24 table of contents entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances so warrant. any changes in our credit capacity or credit profile could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have a trade receivables securitization facility that provides liquidity of up to $750 million depending on the amount of eligible domestic trade accounts receivables. in periods of lower prices, we may not have sufficient eligible accounts receivables to support full availability of this facility. historic or current operations could subject us to significant legal liability or restrict our ability to operate. we currently are defending litigation and anticipate we will be required to defend new litigation in the future. our operations, including those of mplx and andx, and those of our predecessors and andeavor's predecessors could expose us to litigation and civil claims by private plaintiffs for alleged damages related to contamination of the environment or personal injuries caused by releases of hazardous substances from our facilities, products liability, consumer credit or privacy laws, product pricing or antitrust laws or any other laws or regulations that apply to our operations. while an adverse outcome in most litigation matters would not be expected to be material to us, in class-action litigation, large classes of plaintiffs may allege damages relating to extended periods of time or other alleged facts and circumstances that could increase the amount of potential damages. attorneys general and other government officials may pursue litigation in which they seek to recover civil damages from companies on behalf of a state or its citizens for a variety of claims, including violation of consumer protection and product pricing laws or natural resources damages. we are defending litigation of that type and anticipate that we will be required to defend new litigation of that type in the future. if we are not able to successfully defend such litigation, it may result in liability to our company that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we do not have insurance covering all of these potential liabilities. in addition to substantial liability, plaintiffs in litigation may also seek injunctive relief which, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a portion of our workforce is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. approximately 4,780 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. of these employees, approximately 1,465 employees at our galveston bay, mandan and martinez refineries are covered by collective bargaining agreements which were set to expire on january 31, 2019. the parties continue their negotiations toward a new agreement, and are working under rolling extensions. approximately 425 employees at our martinez chemical plant, our los angeles refinery and our galveston bay refinery are covered by collective bargaining agreements expiring over the next several months. approximately 410 hourly employees at speedway are represented under collective bargaining agreements. the majority of these employees work at certain retail locations in new york and new jersey under agreements which expire on march 14, 2019 and june 30, 2019, respectively. the remaining speedway represented employees are drivers in minnesota under an agreement which expires in 2021. approximately 300 employees at our st. paul park and gallup refineries are covered by collective bargaining agreements scheduled to expire in 2020. approximately 1,620 employees at our anacortes, canton, catlettsburg, los angeles, and salt lake city refineries are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are due to expire in 2022. the remaining 560 hourly represented employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with expiration dates ranging from 2021 to 2024. these contracts may be renewed at an increased cost to us. in addition, we have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, work stoppages as a result of labor disagreements. any prolonged work stoppages disrupting operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, california requires refinery owners to pay prevailing wages to contract craft workers and restricts refiners' ability to hire qualified employees to a limited pool of applicants. legislation or changes in regulations could result in labor shortages higher labor costs, and an increased risk that contract employees become joint employees, which could trigger bargaining issues, employment discrimination liability issues as well as wage and benefit consequences, especially during critical maintenance and construction periods. two of our subsidiaries act as general partners of publicly traded master limited partnerships, which may involve a greater exposure to certain legal liabilities than existed under our historic business operations. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of mplx, a publicly traded mlp. another of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of andx, a publicly traded mlp. we acquired control of andx's general partner through the andeavor acquisition. our control of the general partners of mplx and andx may increase the possibility of claims of breach of fiduciary duties, including claims of conflicts of interest related to mplx and andx. any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 25 table of contents if foreign investment in us or mplx exceeds certain levels, mplx could be prohibited from operating inland river vessels, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the shipping act of 1916 and merchant marine act of 1920, which we refer to collectively as the maritime laws, generally require that vessels engaged in u.s. coastwise trade be owned by u.s. citizens. among other requirements to establish citizenship, entities that own such vessels must be owned at least 75 percent by u.s. citizens. if we fail to maintain compliance with the maritime laws, mplx would be prohibited from operating vessels in the u.s. inland waters. such a prohibition could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to certain continuing contingent liabilities of marathon oil relating to taxes and other matters and to potential liabilities pursuant to the tax sharing agreement and separation and distribution agreement we entered into with marathon oil that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. although the spinoff occurred in mid-2011, certain liabilities of marathon oil could become our obligations. for example, under the internal revenue code of 1986 (the code ) and related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the spinoff is jointly and severally liable for the federal income tax liability of the entire marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. in connection with the spinoff, we entered into a tax sharing agreement with marathon oil that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the marathon oil consolidated tax reporting group between us and marathon oil. however, if marathon oil is unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes. other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans as well as other contingent liabilities. also pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, following the spinoff we are responsible generally for all taxes attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries, whether accruing before, on or after the spinoff. we also agreed to be responsible for, and indemnify marathon oil with respect to, all taxes arising as a result of the spinoff (or certain internal restructuring transactions) failing to qualify as transactions under sections 368(a) and 355 of the code for u.s. federal income tax purposes to the extent such tax liability arises as a result of any breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or other obligation by us or certain affiliates made in connection with the issuance of the private letter ruling relating to the spinoff or in the tax sharing agreement. in addition, we agreed to indemnify marathon oil for specified tax-related liabilities associated with our 2005 acquisition of the minority interest in our refining joint venture from ashland inc. our indemnification obligations to marathon oil and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited or subject to any cap. if we are required to indemnify marathon oil and its subsidiaries and their respective officers and directors under the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. at this time, we cannot precisely quantify the amount of these liabilities that have been assumed pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, and there can be no assurances as to their final amounts. also, in connection with the spinoff, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with marathon oil that provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions that were required to effect the spinoff, certain conditions to the spinoff and provisions governing the relationship between our company and marathon oil with respect to and resulting from the spinoff. among other things, the separation and distribution agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our downstream business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the spinoff, as well as certain obligations of marathon oil assumed by us. our obligations to indemnify marathon oil under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement could subject us to substantial liabilities. marathon oil also agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. however, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities retained by marathon oil, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from marathon oil will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, that marathon oil will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations or that marathon oil's insurers will cover us for liabilities associated with occurrences prior to the spinoff. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from marathon oil or its insurers any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. the tax liabilities and underlying liabilities in the event marathon oil is unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations described in this paragraph could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. significant acquisitions in the future will involve the integration of new assets or businesses and present substantial risks that could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. significant future transactions involving the addition of new assets or businesses will present potential risks, which may include, among others: inaccurate assumptions about future synergies, revenues, capital expenditures and operating costs; 26 table of contents an inability to successfully integrate assets or businesses we acquire; a decrease in our liquidity resulting from using a portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity under our revolving credit agreement to finance transactions; a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance transactions; the assumption of unknown environmental and other liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and the incurrence of other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. a significant decrease or delay in oil and natural gas production in mplx's or andx's areas of operation, whether due to sustained declines in oil, natural gas and ngl prices, natural declines in well production, or otherwise, may adversely affect mplx's or andx's business, results of operations and financial condition, and could reduce their ability to make distributions to us. a significant portion of mplx's operations are dependent upon production from oil and natural gas reserves and wells owned by its producer customers, which will naturally decline over time, which means that mplx's cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. to maintain or increase throughput levels and the utilization rate of mplx's facilities, mplx must continually obtain new oil, natural gas and ngl supplies, which depends in part on the level of successful drilling activity near its facilities. similarly, andx's operations are dependent in part on the production of crude oil in the bakken region and the production of natural gas and ngls in the green river, uinta and williston basins. we have no control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of mplx's or andx's operations, the amount of reserves associated with the wells or the rate at which production from a well will decline. in addition, we have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, drilling costs per mcf or barrel, demand for hydrocarbons, operational challenges, access to downstream markets, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations and the availability and cost of capital. because of these factors, even if new oil or natural gas reserves are discovered in areas served by mplx or andx assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. if mplx and andx are not able to obtain new supplies of oil, natural gas or ngls to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells, throughput on their pipelines and the utilization rates of their facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on their business, results of operations and financial condition and could reduce their ability to make distributions to us. decreases in energy prices can decrease drilling activity, production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. the prices for oil, natural gas and ngls depend upon factors beyond our control, including global and local demand, production levels, changes in interstate pipeline gas quality specifications, imports and exports, seasonality and weather conditions, economic and political conditions domestically and internationally and governmental regulations. sustained periods of low prices could result in producers also significantly curtailing or limiting their oil and gas drilling operations which could substantially delay the production and delivery of volumes of oil, natural gas and ngls to mplx's and andx's facilities and adversely affect their revenues and cash available for distribution to us. this impact may also be exacerbated due to the extent of mplx's commodity-based contracts, which are more directly impacted by changes in natural gas and ngl prices than its fee-based contracts due to frac spread exposure and may result in operating losses when natural gas becomes more expensive on a btu equivalent basis than ngl products. in addition, the purchase and resale of natural gas and ngls in the ordinary course exposes our midstream operations to volatility in natural gas or ngl prices due to the potential difference in the time of the purchases and sales and the potential difference in the price associated with each transaction, and direct exposure may also occur naturally as a result of production processes. also, the significant volatility in natural gas, ngl and oil prices could adversely impact mplx's or andx's unit price, thereby increasing its distribution yield and cost of capital. such impacts could adversely impact mplx's and andx's ability to execute its long term organic growth projects, satisfy obligations to its customers and make distributions to unitholders at intended levels, and may also result in non-cash impairments of long-lived assets or goodwill or other-than-temporary non-cash impairments of our equity method investments. 27 table of contents significant stockholders may attempt to effect changes at our company or acquire control over our company, which could impact the pursuit of business strategies and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our stockholders may from time to time engage in proxy solicitations, advance stockholder proposals or otherwise attempt to effect changes or acquire control over our company. campaigns by stockholders to effect changes at publicly traded companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase short-term stockholder value through actions such as financial restructuring, increased debt, special dividends, stock repurchases or sales of assets or the entire company. responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our board of directors and senior management from the management of our operations and the pursuit of our business strategies. as a result, stockholder campaigns could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we do not own all of the land on which our assets are located, which could disrupt our operations. we do not own all of the land on which certain of our assets are located, particularly our midstream assets, but rather obtain the rights to construct and operate such assets on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. therefore, we are subject to the possibility of more burdensome terms and increased costs to retain necessary land use if our leases, rights-of-way or other property rights lapse or terminate or it is determined that we do not have valid leases, rights-of-way or other property rights. our loss of these rights, including loss through our inability to renew leases, right-of-way agreements or permits on satisfactory terms or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks relating to the andeavor acquisition the andeavor acquisition may not be accretive, and may be dilutive, to mpc's earnings per share and cash flow from operations per share, which may negatively affect the market price of shares of mpc common stock. the andeavor acquisition may not be accretive, and may be dilutive, to mpc's earnings per share and cash flow from operations per share. earnings per share and cash flow from operations per share in the future are based on preliminary estimates that may materially change. in addition, future events and conditions could decrease or delay any accretion, result in dilution or cause greater dilution than is currently expected, including: adverse changes in energy market conditions; commodity prices for oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids; production levels; operating results; competitive conditions; laws and regulations affecting the energy business; capital expenditure obligations; higher than expected integration costs; lower than expected synergies; and general economic conditions. any dilution of, or decrease or delay of any accretion to, mpc's earnings per share or cash flow from operations per share could cause the price of mpc's common stock to decline. mpc has incurred and will continue to incur significant costs in connection with the andeavor acquisition, which may be in excess of those anticipated by mpc. mpc has incurred substantial expenses in connection with the andeavor acquisition. mpc expects to continue to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with combining the operations of the two companies and achieving desired synergies. these fees and costs have been, and will continue to be, substantial. mpc will also incur transaction fees and costs related to formulating and implementing integration plans, including facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment-related costs. additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the two companies' businesses. although mpc expects that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, should allow mpc to offset integration-related costs 28 table of contents over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. see the risk factor below entitled the integration of andeavor into mpc may not be as successful as anticipated. the costs described above, as well as other unanticipated costs and expenses, could materially and adversely affect mpc's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. the integration of andeavor into mpc may not be as successful as anticipated. the andeavor acquisition involves numerous operational, strategic, financial, accounting, legal, tax and other risks; potential liabilities associated with the acquired businesses; and uncertainties related to design, operation and integration of andeavor's internal control over financial reporting. difficulties in integrating andeavor into mpc may result in legacy andeavor assets performing differently than expected, in operational challenges or in the failure to realize anticipated expense-related efficiencies. potential difficulties that may be encountered in the integration process include, among other factors: the inability to successfully integrate the businesses of andeavor into mpc in a manner that permits mpc to achieve the full revenue and cost savings anticipated from the merger; complexities associated with managing the larger, more complex, integrated business; not realizing anticipated operating synergies or incurring unexpected costs to realize such synergies; integrating personnel from the two companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high-quality products and services; potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with the merger; loss of key employees; integrating relationships with customers, vendors and business partners; performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management's attention caused by completing the merger and integrating andeavor's operations into mpc; and the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, each company's ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. mpc's results may suffer if it does not effectively manage its expanded operations following the andeavor acquisition. mpc's success depends, in part, on its ability to manage its expansion following the andeavor acquisition, which poses numerous risks and uncertainties, including the need to integrate the operations and business of andeavor into its existing business in an efficient and timely manner, to combine systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with customers, vendors and business partners. mpc may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the andeavor acquisition. the success of the andeavor acquisition depends, in part, on mpc's ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining mpc's and andeavor's businesses, including the annual gross, run-rate, commercial and corporate synergies that mpc expects to realize within the first three years after the combination. the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the andeavor acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, may take longer to realize than expected, may require more non-recurring costs and expenditures to realize than expected or could have other adverse effects. some of the assumptions that mpc has made, such as with respect to anticipated: operating synergies or the costs associated with realizing such synergies; significant long-term cash flow generation; the benefit from a substantial increase in scale and geographic diversity; complementary growth platforms for both midstream and retail businesses; positioning for potentially significant benefits from the international maritime organization change in specifications for marine bunker fuel; the expansion in opportunities for logistics growth in crude oil production basins and regions; further optimization of crude supply; and the continuation of mpc's investment grade credit profile, may not be realized. the integration process may result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. there could be potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen expenses associated with the andeavor acquisition that were not discovered in the course of performing due diligence. 29 table of contents we have recorded goodwill and other intangible assets that could become impaired and result in material non-cash charges to our results of operations. we accounted for the andeavor and other acquisitions using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires that the assets and liabilities of the acquired business be recorded to our balance sheet at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. any excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the acquired net assets is recognized as goodwill. as of december 31, 2018, our balance sheet reflected $20.2 billion and $3.4 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets, respectively. these amounts include the preliminary estimates of goodwill and other intangible assets of $16.3 billion and $2.8 billion , respectively, recognized in connection with the andeavor acquisition. to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material non-cash charges relating to such impairment. our operating results may be significantly impacted from both the impairment and the underlying trends in the business that triggered the impairment. risks related to our industry meeting the requirements of evolving environmental or other laws or regulations may reduce our refining and marketing margin and may result in substantial capital expenditures and operating costs that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. various laws and regulations are expected to impose increasingly stringent and costly requirements on our operations, which may reduce our refining and marketing margin. laws and regulations expected to become more stringent relate to the following: the emission or discharge of materials into the environment, solid and hazardous waste management, pollution prevention, greenhouse gas emissions, climate change, characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, public and employee safety and health, inherently safer technology, and facility security. the specific impact of laws and regulations on us and our competitors may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of operating facilities, marketing areas, crude oil and feedstock sources and production processes. we may be required to make expenditures to modify operations, install pollution control equipment, perform site cleanups or curtail operations that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the epa's national ambient air quality standards ( naaqs ) are among the regulations that impact our operations. in october 2015, the epa reduced the primary (health) ozone naaqs to 70 ppb from the prior ozone level of 75 ppb. on november 6, 2017, the epa finalized ozone attainment/unclassifiable designations under the new standard. in actions dated april 30, 2018, and july 25, 2018, the epa finalized nonattainment designations for certain areas under the lower primary ozone standard. in some areas, these nonattainment designations could result in increased costs associated with, or result in cancellation or delay of, capital projects at our facilities. states will also be required to adopt sips for nonattainment areas. these sips may include nox and/or voc reductions that could result in increased costs to our facilities. we cannot predict the various sip requirements at this time. the epa announced that it plans to review the naaqs level for particulate matter ( pm ). a reduction in the pm naaqs and subsequent designation of nonattainment could also result in increased costs associated with, or result in cancellation or delay of, capital projects at our facilities. the eisa established increases in fuel mileage standards. the department of transportation's national highway safety administration and the epa work in conjunction to establish cafe standards and greenhouse gas emission standards for light-duty vehicles that become more stringent over time. in addition, pursuant to a waiver granted by the epa, california and other states have enacted laws that require vehicle emission reductions. increases in fuel mileage standards and requirements for zero emission vehicles may reduce demand for refined product. the eisa also expanded the renewable fuel standard ( rfs ) program administered by the epa. governmental regulations encouraging the use of new or alternative fuels could pose a competitive threat to our operations. the eisa required the total 30 table of contents volume of renewable transportation fuels sold or introduced annually in the u.s. to reach 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. the rfs presents production and logistics challenges for both the renewable fuels and petroleum refining industries, and may continue to require additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. gasoline consumption has been lower than forecasted by the epa, which has led to concerns that the renewable fuel volumes may not be met. on november 30, 2018, epa finalized rfs volume requirements for the year 2019, and the biomass-based diesel volume requirement for year 2020. the epa used its cellulosic waiver authority to reduce the volumes for 2019 from the statutory amounts to the following: 19.92 billion gallons total renewable fuel; 4.92 billion gallons advanced biofuel; and 418 million gallons cellulosic biofuel. the epa set the biomass-based diesel volume requirement for 2020 at 2.43 billion gallons, which is significantly greater than the statutory floor of 1.0 billion gallons. tax incentives and other subsidies have also made renewable fuels more competitive with refined products than they otherwise would have been, which may further reduce refined product margins. the tax incentives and subsidies are causing uncertainties because they have expired and been reinstituted retroactively. the biodiesel credit, for example, expired at the end of 2016 and was retroactively reinstated in early 2018. it is not certain whether the credit will be reinstituted beyond 2018. on march 3, 2014, the epa signed the final tier 3 fuel standards. the final tier 3 fuel standards require, among other things, a lower annual average sulfur level in gasoline to no more than 10 ppm beginning in calendar year 2017. in addition, gasoline refiners and importers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 80 ppm, while retailers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 95 ppm. since 2014, we have made approximately $490 million in capital expenditures necessary to comply with these standards. for 2019, we expect an additional $260 million of capital expenditures to comply with these standards. federal, state and local legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could delay or impede producer's gas production or result in reduced volumes available for our midstream assets to gather, process and fractionate. while we do not conduct hydraulic fracturing operations, we do provide gathering, processing and fractionation services with respect to natural gas and natural gas liquids produced by our customers as a result of such operations. if federal, state or local laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such legal requirements could make it more difficult to complete natural gas wells in shale formations and increase producers' costs of compliance. climate change and greenhouse gas emission regulation could affect our operations, energy consumption patterns and regulatory obligations, any of which could affect our results of operations and financial condition. currently, multiple legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) and other emissions are in various phases of consideration, promulgation or implementation. these include actions to develop international, federal, regional or statewide programs, which could require reductions in our greenhouse gas or other emissions, establish a carbon tax and decrease the demand for our refined products. requiring reductions in these emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments. for example, in california, the state legislature adopted sb 32 in 2016. sb 32 set a cap on emissions of 40% below 1990 levels by 2030 but did not establish a particular mechanism to achieve that target. the legislature also adopted a companion bill, ab 197, that most significantly directs the carb to prioritize direct emission reductions on large stationary sources. in 2017, the state legislature adopted ab 398 which provides direction and parameters on utilizing cap and trade after 2020 to meet the 40% reduction target from 1990 levels by 2030 specified in sb 32. in 2009, carb adopted the low carbon fuel standard ( lcfs ). the lcfs was amended again in 2018 with the current version targeting a 20% reduction in fuel carbon intensity from a 2010 baseline by 2030. compliance is demonstrated by blending lower carbon intensity biofuels into gasoline and diesel or by purchasing credits. compliance with each of the cap and trade and lcfs programs is demonstrated through a market-based credit system. other states are proposing, or have already promulgated, low carbon fuel standards or similar initiatives to reduce emissions from the transportation sector. if we are unable to pass the costs of compliance on to our customers, sufficient credits are unavailable for purchase, we have to pay a significantly higher price for credits, or if we are otherwise unable to meet our compliance obligation, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. regional and state climate change and air emissions goals and regulatory programs are complex, subject to change and considerable uncertainty due to a number of factors including technological feasibility, legal challenges and potential changes in federal policy. increasing concerns about climate change have also resulted in a number of international and national measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions. additional stricter measures can be expected in the future and any of these changes may have a material adverse impact on our business or financial condition. international climate change-related efforts, such as the 2015 united nations conference on climate change, which led to the creation of the paris agreement, may impact the regulatory framework of states whose policies directly influence our present and future operations. though the united states has announced its intention to withdraw from the paris agreement, withdrawal 31 table of contents it is not possible until november 2019 at the earliest. if the united states declines to withdraw, the extent of such regulation and the cost associated with compliance cannot be predicted. we could also face increased climate related litigation with respect to our operations or products. governmental and other entities in california, new york, maryland and rhode island have filed lawsuits against coal, gas, oil and petroleum companies, including the company. the lawsuits allege damages as a result of climate change and the plaintiffs are seeking unspecified damages and abatement under various tort theories. similar lawsuits may be filed in other jurisdictions. there remains a high degree of uncertainty regarding the ultimate outcome of these lawsuits, as well as their potential effect on the company's business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. regulatory and other requirements concerning the transportation of crude oil and other commodities by rail may cause increases in transportation costs or limit the amount of crude oil that we can transport by rail. we rely on a variety of systems to transport crude oil, including rail. rail transportation is regulated by federal, state and local authorities. new regulations or changes in existing regulations could result in increased compliance expenditures. for example, in 2015 the u.s. department of transportation issued new standards and regulations applicable to crude-by-rail transportation (enhanced tank car standards and operational controls for high-hazard flammable trains). these or other regulations that require the reduction of volatile or flammable constituents in crude oil that is transported by rail, change the design or standards for rail cars used to transport the crude oil we purchase, change the routing or scheduling of trains carrying crude oil, or require any other changes that detrimentally affect the economics of delivering north american crude oil by rail could increase the time required to move crude oil from production areas to our refineries, increase the cost of rail transportation and decrease the efficiency of shipments of crude oil by rail within our operations. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. severe weather events and other climate conditions may adversely affect our facilities and ongoing operations. we have mature systems in place to manage potential acute physical risks, such as floods, hurricane-force winds, wildfires and snowstorms, and potential chronic physical risks, such as higher ocean levels. if any such events were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. specifically, where appropriate, we are hardening and modernizing assets against weather damage and ensuring we have resiliency measures in place, such as storm-specific readiness plans. we have incurred and will continue to incur additional costs to protect our assets and operations from such physical risks and employ the evolving technologies and processes available to mitigate such risks. to the extent such severe weather events or other climate conditions increase in frequency and severity, we may be required to modify operations and incur costs that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. plans we may have to expand existing assets or construct new assets are subject to risks associated with societal and political pressures and other forms of opposition to the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels. such risks could adversely impact our business and ability to realize certain growth strategies. our anticipated growth and planned expenditures are based upon the assumption that societal sentiment will continue to enable and existing regulations will remain intact to allow for the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels. a portion of our growth strategy is dependent on our ability to expand existing assets and to construct additional assets. however, policy decisions relating to the production, refining, transportation and marketing of carbon-based fuels are subject to political pressures and the influence and protests of environmental and other special interest groups. one of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new pipelines or the expansion of existing ones. the construction of a new pipeline or the expansion of an existing pipeline, by adding horsepower or pump stations or by adding additional pipelines along existing pipelines, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control. the approval process for storage and transportation projects has become increasingly challenging, due in part to state and local concerns related to pipelines, negative public perception regarding the oil and gas industry, and concerns regarding greenhouse gas emissions downstream of pipeline operations. in addition, government disruptions, such as a u.s. federal government shutdown, may delay or halt the granting and renewal of permits, licenses and other items required by us and our customers to conduct our business. we have experienced construction delays related to these factors as a result of the u.s. federal government's recent shutdown. our expansion or construction projects may not be completed on schedule (or at all) or at the budgeted cost. in addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we build a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities (including improvements and repairs to our existing facilities) could adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results, thereby limiting our ability to grow and generate cash flows. 32 table of contents large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting project returns. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we produce. such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: denial of or delay in receiving requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of components or construction materials; adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors or suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or subcontractors. any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our ongoing capital projects. if we were unable to make up the delays associated with such factors or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the availability of crude oil and increases in crude oil prices may reduce profitability and refining and marketing margins. the profitability of our operations depends largely on the difference between the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks we refine and the selling prices we obtain for refined products. a portion of our crude oil is purchased from various foreign national oil companies, production companies and trading companies, including suppliers from canada, the middle east and various other international locations. the market for crude oil and other feedstocks is largely a world market. we are, therefore, subject to the attendant political, geographic and economic risks of such a market. if one or more major supply sources were temporarily or permanently eliminated, we believe adequate alternative supplies of crude oil would be available, but it is possible we would be unable to find alternative sources of supply. if we are unable to obtain adequate crude oil volumes or are able to obtain such volumes only at unfavorable prices, our operations, sales of refined products and refining and marketing margins could be adversely affected, materially and adversely impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to risks arising from our non-u.s. operations and generally to worldwide political and economic developments. we have expanded the scope of our non-u.s. operations through the andeavor acquisition, particularly in mexico, south america and asia. our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted by disruptions in any of these markets, including economic instability, restrictions on the transfer of funds, duties and tariffs, transportation delays, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest, security issues involving key personnel and changing regulatory and political environments. in addition, if trade relationships deteriorate with these countries, if existing trade agreements are modified or terminated, new economic sanctions relevant to such jurisdictions are passed or if taxes, border adjustments or tariffs make trading with these countries more costly, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are required to comply with u.s. and international laws and regulations, including those involving anti-bribery, anti-corruption and anti-money laundering. for example, the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws and regulations prohibit improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or gaining any business advantage. our compliance policies and programs mandate compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws but may not be completely effective in ensuring our compliance. our training and compliance program and our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from violations committed by our employees or agents. actual or alleged violations of 33 table of contents these laws could disrupt our business and cause us to incur significant legal expenses, and could result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. more broadly, political and economic factors in global markets could impact crude oil and other feedstock supplies and could have a material adverse effect on us in other ways. hostilities in the middle east or the occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economies of the u.s. and other developed countries. a lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could cause our revenues and margins to decline and limit our future growth prospects. these risks could lead to increased volatility in prices for refined products, ngls and natural gas. additionally, these risks could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult and/or costly for us to access capital and to obtain the insurance coverage that we consider adequate. additionally, tax policy, legislative or regulatory action and commercial restrictions could reduce our operating profitability. for example, the u.s. government could prevent or restrict exports of refined products, ngls, natural gas or the conduct of business in or with certain foreign countries. in addition, foreign countries could restrict imports, investments or commercial transactions. compliance with and changes in tax laws could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal and state income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales and use, payroll, franchise, withholding and property taxes. new tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations could result in increased expenditures by us for tax liabilities in the future and could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, many tax liabilities are subject to periodic audits by taxing authorities, and such audits could subject us to interest and penalties. terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities or that impact our customers or the markets we serve could adversely affect our business. the u.s. government has issued warnings that energy assets in general, including the nation's refining, pipeline and terminal infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. the threat of terrorist attacks has subjected our operations to increased risks. any future terrorist attacks on our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. similarly, any future terrorist attacks that severely disrupt the markets we serve could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. risks relating to ownership of our common stock provisions in our corporate governance documents could operate to delay or prevent a change in control of our company, dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our capital stock or affect its liquidity. the existence of some provisions within our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us that a stockholder may consider favorable. these include provisions: providing that our board of directors fixes the number of members of the board; providing for the division of our board of directors into three classes with staggered terms; providing that only our board of directors may fill board vacancies; limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring stockholder action to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; establishing supermajority vote requirements for certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation; providing that our directors may only be removed for cause; authorizing a large number of shares of common stock that are not yet issued, which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of our management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us; and authorizing the issuance of blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt. 34 table of contents we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors time to assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. however, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition. our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. the terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. for example, we could grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our board of directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock. finally, to facilitate compliance with the maritime laws, our restated certificate of incorporation limits the aggregate percentage ownership by non-u.s. citizens of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock to 23 percent of the outstanding shares. we may prohibit transfers that would cause ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock by non-u.s. citizens to exceed 23 percent. our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to effect any and all measures necessary or desirable to monitor and limit foreign ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock. these limitations could have an adverse impact on the liquidity of the market for our common stock if holders are unable to transfer shares to non-u.s. citizens due to the limitations on ownership by non-u.s. citizens. any such limitation on the liquidity of the market for our common stock could adversely impact the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 89 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, includes forward-looking statements. you can identify our forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, believe, could, design, estimate, expect, forecast, goal, guidance, imply, intend, may, objective, opportunity, outlook, plan, position, potential, predict, project, prospective, pursue, seek, should, strategy, target, will, would or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. in accordance with safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to, or statements that are subject to risks, contingencies or uncertainties that relate to: the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the andeavor acquisition may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the andeavor acquisition making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; risks relating to any unforeseen liabilities of andeavor; the potential merger, consolidation or combination of mplx lp with andeavor logistics lp; future levels of revenues, refining and marketing margins, operating costs, retail gasoline and distillate margins, merchandise margins, income from operations, net income or earnings per share; the regional, national and worldwide availability and pricing of refined products, crude oil, natural gas, ngls and other feedstocks; consumer demand for refined products; our ability to manage disruptions in credit markets or changes to our credit rating; future levels of capital, environmental or maintenance expenditures, general and administrative and other expenses; the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital or maintenance projects; the reliability of processing units and other equipment; business strategies, growth opportunities and expected investments; share repurchase authorizations, including the timing and amounts of any common stock repurchases; the adequacy of our capital resources and liquidity, including but not limited to, availability of sufficient cash flow to execute our business plan and to effect any share repurchases or dividend increases, including within the expected timeframe; the effect of restructuring or reorganization of business components; the potential effects of judicial or other proceedings on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; continued or further volatility in and/or degradation of general economic, market, industry or business conditions; compliance with federal and state environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, including the cost of compliance with the renewable fuel standard, and/or enforcement actions initiated thereunder; and the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, activist investors or federal, foreign, state or local regulatory authorities or plaintiffs in litigation. our forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and you should not rely unduly on them, as they involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we cannot predict. material differences between actual results and any future performance suggested in our forward-looking statements could result from a variety of factors, including the following: volatility or degradation in general economic, market, industry or business conditions; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of natural gas, ngls and crude oil and other feedstocks; the ability of the members of the opec to agree on and to influence crude oil price and production controls; availability and pricing of domestic and foreign supplies of refined products such as gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, home heating oil and petrochemicals; 2 table of contents foreign imports and exports of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and ngls; refining industry overcapacity or under capacity; changes in producer customers' drilling plans or in volumes of throughput of crude oil, natural gas, ngls, refined products or other hydrocarbon-based products; changes in the cost or availability of third-party vessels, pipelines, railcars and other means of transportation for crude oil, natural gas, ngls, feedstocks and refined products; changes to our capital budget, expected construction costs and timing of projects; the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels and alternative-fuel vehicles and laws mandating such fuels or vehicles; fluctuations in consumer demand for refined products, natural gas and ngls, including seasonal fluctuations; political and economic conditions in nations that consume refined products, natural gas and ngls, including the united states, and in crude oil producing regions, including the middle east, africa, canada and south america; actions taken by our competitors, including pricing adjustments, expansion of retail activities, the expansion and retirement of refining capacity and the expansion and retirement of pipeline capacity, processing, fractionation and treating facilities in response to market conditions; completion of pipeline projects within the united states; changes in fuel and utility costs for our facilities; failure to realize the benefits projected for capital projects, or cost overruns associated with such projects; modifications to mplx and andx earnings and distribution growth objectives; the ability to successfully implement growth opportunities, including strategic initiatives and actions; risks and uncertainties associated with intangible assets, including any future goodwill or intangible assets impairment charges; the ability to realize the strategic benefits of joint venture opportunities; accidents or other unscheduled shutdowns affecting our refineries, machinery, pipelines, processing, fractionation and treating facilities or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers; unusual weather conditions and natural disasters, which can unforeseeably affect the price or availability of crude oil and other feedstocks and refined products; acts of war, terrorism or civil unrest that could impair our ability to produce refined products, receive feedstocks or to gather, process, fractionate or transport crude oil, natural gas, ngls or refined products; state and federal environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, including the cost of compliance with the renewable fuel standard program; adverse changes in laws including with respect to tax and regulatory matters; rulings, judgments or settlements and related expenses in litigation or other legal, tax or regulatory matters, including unexpected environmental remediation costs, in excess of any reserves or insurance coverage; political pressure and influence of environmental groups upon policies and decisions related to the production, gathering, refining, processing, fractionation, transportation and marketing of crude oil or other feedstocks, refined products, natural gas, ngls or other hydrocarbon-based products; labor and material shortages; the maintenance of satisfactory relationships with labor unions and joint venture partners; the ability and willingness of parties with whom we have material relationships to perform their obligations to us; the market price of our common stock and its impact on our share repurchase authorizations; changes in the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and trade credit, changes in the availability of unsecured credit, changes affecting the credit markets generally and our ability to manage such changes; capital market conditions and our ability to raise adequate capital to execute our business plan; the costs, disruption and diversion of management's attention associated with campaigns commenced by activist investors; and the other factors described in item 1a. risk factors. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements except to the extent required by applicable law. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business overview marathon petroleum corporation ( mpc ) has 131 years of experience in the energy business with roots tracing back to the formation of the ohio oil company in 1887. we are a leading, integrated, downstream energy company headquartered in findlay, ohio. with the acquisition of andeavor october 1, 2018 (as described further below), we are the largest independent petroleum product refining, marketing, retail and midstream business in the united states. we operate the nation's largest refining system with more than 3 million barrels per day of crude oil capacity across 16 refineries. mpc's marketing system includes branded locations across the united states. we also own and operate retail convenience stores across the united states. mpc's midstream operations are primarily conducted through mplx lp ( mplx ) and andeavor logistics lp ( andx ), which own and operate crude oil and light product transportation and logistics infrastructure as well as gathering, processing and fractionation assets. we own the general partner and majority limited partner interests in these two midstream companies. our operations consist of three reportable operating segments: refining &amp; marketing; retail ; and midstream . each of these segments is organized and managed based upon the nature of the products and services it offers. refining &amp; marketing refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our 16 refineries in the west coast, gulf coast and mid-continent regions of the united states, purchases refined products and ethanol for resale and distributes refined products largely through transportation, storage, distribution and marketing services provided largely by our midstream segment. we sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, to buyers on the spot market, to our retail business segment and to independent entrepreneurs who operate primarily marathon branded outlets. retail sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market across the united states through company-owned and operated convenience stores, primarily under the speedway brand, and long-term fuel supply contracts with direct dealers who operate locations mainly under the arco brand. midstream transports, stores, distributes and markets crude oil and refined products principally for the refining &amp; marketing segment via refining logistics assets, pipelines, terminals, towboats and barges; gathers, processes and transports natural gas; and gathers, transports, fractionates, stores and markets ngls. the midstream segment primarily reflects the results of mplx and andx, our sponsored master limited partnerships. andeavor acquisition on october 1, 2018, we completed the andeavor acquisition. under the terms of the merger agreement, andeavor stockholders had the option to choose 1.87 shares of mpc common stock or $152.27 in cash per share of andeavor common stock. the merger agreement included election proration provisions that resulted in approximately 22.9 million shares of andeavor common stock being converted into cash consideration and the remaining 128.2 million shares of andeavor common stock being converted into stock consideration. andeavor stockholders received in the aggregate approximately 239.8 million shares of mpc common stock valued at $19.8 billion and approximately $3.5 billion in cash in connection with the andeavor acquisition. through the andeavor acquisition, we acquired the general partner and 156 million common units of andx, which is a publicly traded master limited partnership ( mlp ) that was formed to own, operate, develop and acquire logistics assets. andeavor was a highly integrated marketing, logistics and refining company operating primarily in the western and mid-continent united states. andeavor's operations included procuring crude oil from its source or from other third parties, transporting the crude oil to one of its 10 refineries, and producing, marketing and distributing refined products. its marketing system included more than 3,300 stations marketed under multiple well-known fuel brands including arco . also, as noted above, we acquired the general partner and 156 million common units of andx, a leading growth-oriented, full service, and diversified midstream company which owns and operates networks of crude oil, refined products and natural gas pipelines, terminals with crude oil and refined products storage capacity, rail loading and offloading facilities, marine terminals including storage, bulk petroleum distribution facilities, a trucking fleet and natural gas processing and fractionation complexes. this transaction combined two strong, complementary companies to create a leading nationwide u.s. downstream energy company. the acquisition substantially increases our geographic diversification and scale and strengthens each of our operating segments by diversifying our refining portfolio into attractive markets and increasing access to advantaged feedstocks, enhancing our midstream footprint in the permian basin, and creating a nationwide retail and marketing portfolio all of which is expected to substantially improve efficiencies and our ability to serve customers. we expect the combination to generate up 4 table of contents to approximately $1.4 billion in gross run-rate synergies within the first three years, significantly enhancing our long-term cash flow generation profile. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk. capital resources our liquidity totaled $8.3 billion at december 31, 2018 consisting of: december 31, 2018 (in millions) total capacity outstanding borrowings available capacity bank revolving credit facility (a) $ 5,000 $ 32 $ 4,968 364 day bank revolving credit facility 1,000 1,000 trade receivables facility 750 750 total $ 6,750 $ 32 $ 6,718 cash and cash equivalents (b) 1,609 total liquidity $ 8,327 (a) outstanding borrowings include $32 million in letters of credit outstanding under this facility. excludes mplx's $2.25 billion bank revolving credit facility, which had no borrowings and $3 million of letters of credit outstanding as of december 31, 2018 and andx's $2.10 billion bank revolving credit facilities, which had $1.25 billion outstanding as of december 31, 2018 . (b) excludes $68 million and $10 million of mplx and andx cash and cash equivalents, respectively. because of the alternatives available to us, including internally generated cash flow and access to capital markets, including a commercial paper program, we believe that our short-term and long-term liquidity is adequate to fund not only our current operations, but also our near-term and long-term funding requirements, including capital spending programs, the repurchase of shares of our common stock, dividend payments, defined benefit plan contributions, repayment of debt maturities and other amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies. on november 15, 2018, mplx issued $2.25 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior notes in a public offering, consisting of $750 million aggregate principal amount of 4.800 percent unsecured senior notes due february 2029 and $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.500 percent unsecured senior notes due february 2049. on december 10, 2018, a portion of the net proceeds from the offering was used to redeem the $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.500 percent unsecured notes due february 2023 issued by mplx and markwest. these notes were redeemed at 101.833 percent of the principal amount, plus the write off of unamortized deferred financing costs, resulting in a loss on extinguishment of debt of $60 million . the remaining net proceeds have or will be used to repay borrowings under mplx's revolving credit facility and intercompany loan agreement with mpc and for general partnership purposes. on february 8, 2018, mplx issued $5.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior notes in a public offering, consisting of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.375 percent unsecured senior notes due march 2023, $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.000 percent unsecured senior notes due march 2028, $1.75 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.500 percent unsecured senior notes due april 2038, $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.700 percent unsecured senior notes due april 2048, and $500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.900 percent unsecured senior notes due april 2058. on february 8, 2018, $4.1 billion of the net proceeds were used to repay the 364-day term-loan facility, which was used to finance the cash portion of the consideration for the dropdown of refining logistics assets and distribution services to mplx. the remaining proceeds were used to repay outstanding borrowings under mplx's revolving credit facility and intercompany loan agreement with mpc and for general partnership purposes. 78 table of contents commercial paper we established a commercial paper program that allows us to have a maximum of $2 billion in commercial paper outstanding, with maturities up to 397 days from the date of issuance. we do not intend to have outstanding commercial paper borrowings in excess of available capacity under our bank revolving credit facilities. at december 31, 2018 , we had no amounts outstanding under the commercial paper program. mpc bank revolving credit facilities on august 28, 2018, in connection with the andeavor acquisition, we entered into credit agreements with a syndicate of lenders to replace mpc's previous five-year $2.5 billion bank revolving credit facility due in 2022 and our previous 364-day $1 billion bank revolving agreement that expired in july 2018. the new credit agreements, which became effective october 1, 2018, provide for a $5 billion five -year revolving credit facility that expires in 2023 and a $1 billion 364 -day revolving credit facility that expires in 2019. the financial covenants and the interest rate terms contained in the new credit agreements are substantially the same as those contained in the previous bank revolving credit facilities. there were no borrowings and approximately $32 million of letters of credit outstanding under these facilities at december 31, 2018 . trade receivables facility our trade receivables facility has a borrowing capacity of $750 million (depending on the amount of our eligible domestic trade accounts receivable) and a maturity date of july 19, 2019 . as of december 31, 2018 , eligible trade receivables supported borrowings of $750 million . there were no borrowings outstanding at december 31, 2018 . availability under our trade receivables facility is primarily a function of refined product selling prices. mplx credit agreement on july 21, 2017, mplx entered into a credit agreement with a syndicate of lenders to replace the existing $2 billion five -year bank revolving credit facility with a $2.25 billion five -year bank revolving credit facility with a maturity date of july 2022 ( mplx credit agreement ). at december 31, 2018 , mplx had no outstanding borrowings and $3 million of letters of credit outstanding under the bank revolving credit facility, resulting in total unused loan availability of approximately $2.25 billion . andx credit agreements - through the andeavor acquisition on october 1, 2018, we acquired the general partner and 156 million units of andx. andx is party to a $1.1 billion revolving credit agreement and a $1.0 billion dropdown credit agreement both of which expire in january 2021 (together, the andx credit agreements ). as of december 31, 2018 , andx had approximately $1.25 billion outstanding borrowings under the andx credit agreements, resulting in total unused loan availability of $855 million . see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. variable interest entities we evaluate all legal entities in which we hold an ownership or other pecuniary interest to determine if the entity is a vie. our interests in a vie are referred to as variable interests. variable interests can be contractual, ownership or other pecuniary interests in an entity that change with changes in the fair value of the vie's assets. when we conclude that we hold an interest in a vie we must determine if we are the entity's primary beneficiary. a primary beneficiary is deemed to have a controlling financial interest in a vie. this controlling financial interest is evidenced by both (a) the power to direct the activities of the vie that most significantly impact the vie's economic performance and (b) the obligation to absorb losses that could potentially be significant to the vie or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the vie. we consolidate any vie when we determine that we are the primary beneficiary. we must disclose the nature of any interests in a vie that is not consolidated. significant judgment is exercised in determining that a legal entity is a vie and in evaluating our interest in a vie. we use primarily a qualitative analysis to determine if an entity is a vie. we evaluate the entity's need for continuing financial support; the equity holder's lack of a controlling financial interest; and/or if an equity holder's voting interests are disproportionate to its obligation to absorb expected losses or receive residual returns. we evaluate our interests in a vie to determine whether we are the primary beneficiary. we use a primarily qualitative analysis to determine if we are deemed to have a controlling financial interest in the vie, either on a standalone basis or as part of a related party group. we continually monitor our interests in legal entities for changes in the design or activities of an entity and changes in our interests, including our status as the primary beneficiary to determine if the changes require us to revise our previous conclusions. changes in the design or nature of the activities of a vie, or our involvement with a vie, may require us to reconsider our conclusions on the entity's status as a vie and/or our status as the primary beneficiary. such reconsideration requires significant judgment and understanding of the organization. this could result in the deconsolidation or consolidation of the affected subsidiary, which would have a significant impact on our financial statements. variable interest entities are discussed in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk general we are exposed to market risks related to the volatility of crude oil and refined product prices. we employ various strategies, including the use of commodity derivative instruments, to hedge the risks related to these price fluctuations. we are also exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. as of december 31, 2018 , we did not have any financial derivative instruments to hedge the risks related to interest rate fluctuations; however, we have used them in the past, and we continually monitor the market and our exposure and may enter into these agreements again in the future. we are at risk for changes in fair value of all of our derivative instruments; however, such risk should be mitigated by price or rate changes related to the underlying commodity or financial transaction. we believe that our use of derivative instruments, along with our risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose us to material adverse consequences. while the use of derivative instruments could materially affect our results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods, we believe that the use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity. seerisk factors 22 risk factors, item 3. legal proceedings, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, includes forward-looking statements that are subject to risks, contingencies or uncertainties. you can identify forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, believe, commitment, could, design, estimate, expect, forecast, goal, guidance, imply, intend, may, objective, opportunity, outlook, plan, policy, position, potential, predict, priority, project, proposition, prospective, pursue, seek, should, strategy, target, will, would or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding: future levels of revenues, refining and marketing margins, operating costs, retail gasoline and distillate margins, merchandise margins, income from operations, net income or earnings per share; future levels of capital, environmental or maintenance expenditures, general and administrative and other expenses; the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital or maintenance projects; business strategies, growth opportunities and expected investment; consumer demand for refined products, natural gas and ngls; the timing and amount of any future common stock repurchases; and the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, activist investors or federal, foreign, state or local regulatory authorities or plaintiffs in litigation. our forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and you should not rely unduly on them, as they involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we cannot predict. material differences between actual results and any future performance suggested in our forward-looking statements could result from a variety of factors, including the following: our ability to successfully complete the planned speedway separation within the expected timeframe or at all; our ability to achieve the strategic and other objectives related to our midstream review; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the andeavor transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; risks relating to any unforeseen liabilities of andeavor; further impairments; risks related to the acquisition of andeavor logistics lp ( andx ) by mplx lp ( mplx ); our ability to complete any divestitures on commercially reasonable terms and within the expected timeframe, and the effects of any such divestitures on the business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; the effect of restructuring or reorganization of business components; the regional, national and worldwide availability and pricing of refined products, crude oil, natural gas, ngls and other feedstocks; our ability to manage disruptions in credit markets or changes to credit ratings; the reliability of processing units and other equipment; the adequacy of capital resources and liquidity, including the availability of sufficient cash flow to execute business plans and to effect any share repurchases or dividend increases, including within the expected timeframe; the potential effects of judicial or other proceedings on the business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; continued or further volatility in and degradation of general economic, market, industry or business conditions; 2 table of contents compliance with federal and state environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, including the cost of compliance with the renewable fuel standard, and enforcement actions initiated thereunder; adverse market conditions or other similar risks affecting mplx; refining industry overcapacity or under capacity; changes in producer customers' drilling plans or in volumes of throughput of crude oil, natural gas, ngls, refined products or other hydrocarbon-based products; changes in the cost or availability of third-party vessels, pipelines, railcars and other means of transportation for crude oil, natural gas, ngls, feedstocks and refined products; the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels and alternative-fuel vehicles and laws mandating such fuels or vehicles; political and economic conditions in nations that consume refined products, natural gas and ngls, including the united states and mexico, and in crude oil producing regions, including the middle east, africa, canada and south america; actions taken by our competitors, including pricing adjustments, expansion of retail activities, the expansion and retirement of refining capacity and the expansion and retirement of pipeline capacity, processing, fractionation and treating facilities in response to market conditions; completion of pipeline projects within the united states; changes in fuel and utility costs for our facilities; accidents or other unscheduled shutdowns affecting our refineries, machinery, pipelines, processing, fractionation and treating facilities or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers; acts of war, terrorism or civil unrest that could impair our ability to produce refined products, receive feedstocks or to gather, process, fractionate or transport crude oil, natural gas, ngls or refined products; adverse changes in laws including with respect to tax and regulatory matters; political pressure and influence of environmental groups upon policies and decisions related to the production, gathering, refining, processing, fractionation, transportation and marketing of crude oil or other feedstocks, refined products, natural gas, ngls or other hydrocarbon-based products; labor and material shortages; the costs, disruption and diversion of management's attention associated with campaigns commenced by activist investors; and the other factors described in item 1a. risk factors. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements except to the extent required by applicable law. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business overview marathon petroleum corporation ( mpc ) has over 130 years of experience in the energy business, and is the largest independent petroleum product refining, marketing, retail and midstream business in the united states. we operate the nation's largest refining system with more than 3 million barrels per day of crude oil refining capacity and believe we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers in the united states. we believe we operate the second largest chain of company-owned and operated retail gasoline and convenience stores in the united states. we distribute our refined products through one of the largest terminal operations in the united states and one of the largest private domestic fleets of inland petroleum product barges. in addition, our integrated midstream energy asset network links producers of natural gas and ngls from some of the largest supply basins in the united states to domestic and international markets. our operations consist of three reportable operating segments: refining &amp; marketing, retail and midstream. each of these segments is organized and managed based upon the nature of the products and services it offers. refining &amp; marketing refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our 16 refineries in the gulf coast, mid-continent and west coast regions of the united states, purchases refined products and ethanol for resale and distributes refined products through transportation, storage, distribution and marketing services provided largely by our midstream segment. we sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, to buyers on the spot market, to our retail business segment and to independent entrepreneurs who operate primarily marathon branded outlets. retail sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market across the united states through company-owned and operated convenience stores, primarily under the speedway brand, and long-term fuel supply contracts with direct dealers who operate locations mainly under the arco brand. midstream transports, stores, distributes and markets crude oil and refined products principally for the refining &amp; marketing segment via refining logistics assets, pipelines, terminals, towboats and barges; gathers, processes and transports natural gas; and gathers, transports, fractionates, stores and markets ngls. the midstream segment primarily reflects the results of mplx lp ( mplx ). mplx is a diversified, large-cap master limited partnership ( mlp ) formed in 2012 that owns and operates midstream energy infrastructure and logistics assets and provides fuels distribution services. as of december 31, 2019 , we owned the general partner and approximately 63 percent of the outstanding mplx common units. on october 1, 2018, we completed the andeavor acquisition. andeavor shareholders received in the aggregate approximately 239.8 million shares of mpc common stock valued at $19.8 billion and $3.5 billion in cash. andeavor was a highly integrated marketing, logistics and refining company operating primarily in the western and mid-continent united states. our acquisition of andeavor in 2018 substantially increased our geographic diversification and the scale of our assets, which provides increased opportunities to optimize our system. corporate history and structure mpc was incorporated in delaware on november 9, 2009 in connection with an internal restructuring of marathon oil corporation ( marathon oil ). on may 25, 2011, the marathon oil board of directors approved the spinoff of its refining, marketing &amp; transportation business into an independent, publicly traded company, mpc, through the distribution of mpc common stock to the stockholders of marathon oil on june 30, 2011. our common stock trades on the nyse under the ticker symbol mpc. 4 table of contents recent developments strategic actions to enhance shareholder value on october 31, 2019, we announced our intention to separate our retail transportation fuel and convenience store business, which is operated primarily under the speedway brand, into an independent, publicly traded company through a tax-free distribution to mpc shareholders of publicly traded stock in the new independent retail transportation fuel and convenience store company. this transaction is targeted to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2020, subject to market, regulatory and certain other conditions, including final approval by mpc's board of directors, receipt of customary assurances regarding the intended tax-free nature of the transaction, and the effectiveness of a registration statement to be filed with the sec. the speedway business is currently a reporting unit within our retail segment. mpc will retain its direct dealer business, which is also included in the retail segment as currently reported. mpc's board of directors also formed a special committee to evaluate strategies to enhance shareholder value through a review of the midstream business and to analyze, among other things, the strategic fit of assets with mpc, the ability to realize full valuation credit for midstream earnings and cash flow, balance sheet impacts including liquidity and credit ratings, transaction tax impacts, separation costs, and overall complexity. mplx acquisition of andx on july 30, 2019, mplx completed its acquisition of andeavor logistics lp ( andx ), and andx survived as a wholly-owned subsidiary of mplx. at the effective time of the merger, each common unit held by andx's public unitholders was converted into the right to receive 1.135 mplx common units. andx common units held by certain affiliates of mpc were converted into the right to receive 1.0328 mplx common units. additionally, 600,000 andx preferred units were converted into 600,000 preferred units of mplx (the series b preferred units ). series b preferred unitholders are entitled to receive, when and if declared by the mplx board, a fixed distribution of $68.75 per unit, per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on february 15 and august 15, or the first business day thereafter, up to and including february 15, 2023. after february 15, 2023, the holders of series b preferred units are entitled to receive cumulative, quarterly distributions payable in arrears on the 15th day of february, may, august and november of each year, or the first business day thereafter, based on a floating annual rate equal to the three month libor plus 4.652 percent. the transaction simplified our two sponsored mlps, mplx and andx, into a single listed entity to create a leading, large-scale, diversified midstream company anchored by fee-based cash flows. the combined entity has an expanded geographic footprint that is expected to enhance its long-term growth opportunities and the sustainable cash flow profile of the business. our vision, values and business strategies we are committed to creating a valued, dynamic energy company that enhances life's possibilities. underpinning this vision are our core values of integrity, respect, inclusion, collaboration, and safety and environmental stewardship. our business strategy is based on five strategic pillars designed to define how we create value through competitive advantages: superior execution, integrated value chain, growth through innovation, strong financial discipline and sustainability. these strategic pillars are supported by our commitment to maintaining a high-performing culture and workforce. we continuously strive to enhance our workforce through active recruitment of the best candidates, including those from diverse backgrounds. we develop our high quality workforce through coaching, mentoring and the delivery of robust training programs focused on leadership, commercial skills, safety, environmental stewardship, diversity and inclusion and other professional and technical skills. we describe our strategic pillars more fully below. superior execution we are committed to superior execution in everything we do across our organization. our refining &amp; marketing segment focuses on maintaining and enhancing the reliability and availability of our refining assets, while improving our overall cost structure. actions to improve our refining cost structure include reducing turnaround costs, improving energy efficiency, and driving operational improvements across our 16 refineries. our midstream segment concentrates on achieving operational excellence by operating its assets safely and efficiently, while capturing synergies across our various systems. 5 table of contents our retail segment is expanding existing technology and utilizing data analytics to support and embrace consumer convenience trends, while improving profitability through operational excellence. integrated value chain we believe the scale of our operations distinguishes us from our competitors. our nationwide footprint enables connectivity to key supply sources and demand hubs. we have access to advantaged feedstocks and our logistics system lowers crude acquisition costs, increases optionality, and increases our speed to market. our broad market presence creates superior product placement options and our nationwide marketing channels create significant optimization opportunities. our substantial refining capacity and dock infrastructure on the west coast and gulf coast and our marine assets, uniquely position us to provide reliable supply while allowing for international product placement and marine transportation cost optimization. growth through innovation we intend to leverage technology to enhance margins system wide and develop new opportunities for industry leading solutions. in the refining &amp; marketing segment, we are focused on increasing upgrading capability at our refineries to provide yield flexibility and conversion capacity. we continue investing in high return capital projects that increase export capacity, resid destruction and diesel production. we also leverage technology and the expertise of our employees and business partners to optimize catalyst formulations and other refining processes to produce higher valued products. in our midstream segment, we are alleviating in-basin bottlenecks and connecting supply to global demand markets through investments in our marine fleet, export opportunities and long-haul crude oil, natural gas and ngl pipelines. we continue our efforts to leverage existing assets for incremental third-party business. we also prioritize our growth in strategic basins, such as the permian and marcellus. in our retail segment, we are focused on high value growth opportunities, utilizing superior technology, capturing key market opportunities, and leveraging our buying power. our plans include the continued conversion of acquired locations to the speedway brand and systems, growth in existing and new markets, dealer sites, commercial diesel fueling expansion, food service through store remodels and high quality acquisitions. strong financial discipline we are committed to maintaining an investment grade credit profile and providing through business cycle financial flexibility and protection. we employ a disciplined and balanced approach to capital allocation, including a focus on only the highest returning capital projects in our respective business segments. in our midstream segment, mplx is targeting positive free cash flow, after capital investments and distributions, in 2021. achieving this would allow mplx to fund both its distribution and capital program entirely from internally generated cash flow. since becoming a stand-alone company in june 2011, our dividend has increased by a 23 percent compound annual growth rate and our board of directors has authorized share repurchases totaling $18.0 billion . through open market purchases and two asr programs, we have repurchased 327 million shares of our common stock for approximately $15.0 billion , representing approximately 46 percent of our outstanding common shares when we became a stand-alone company in june 2011. we achieved these shareholder returns while meaningfully investing in the business and maintaining an investment-grade credit profile. as of december 31, 2019 , $3.0 billion of authorization remains available for future share repurchases. sustainability we view sustainability as our environmental, social and economic responsibility. we believe that sustainability is a fundamental process of shared value creation, in which strategic investment and innovation help our society achieve economic growth, environmental preservation and resource conservation. this shared value helps ensure the social and economic needs of future generations are met. our operations, assets and processes require specialized knowledge, advanced operating procedures and a commitment to excellence to ensure safety and maximize environmental stewardship. our approach to sustainability is defined by not only the work we do to conform and comply with all laws and regulations, but also by our drive to meet or exceed our own rigorous environmental and safety targets. 6 table of contents we are committed to investing in sustainable solutions for energy demand by increasing our renewable diesel production and minimizing carbon intensity. we are in the process of converting our dickinson refinery into an approximately 180 million gallon per year renewable diesel facility by the end of 2020. in 2019, the epa recognized marathon petroleum corporation as an energy star partner of the year for the second year, the only oil and gas company to receive such honor. this award recognized the significant energy efficiency gains achieved since we established our focus on energy program at our refineries nearly a decade ago. through the implementation of this program, we have earned approximately two-thirds of the total energy star certifications awarded to the u.s. refining sector since 2006. overall, we have realized considerable savings in energy costs and our energy efficiency efforts have enabled us to significantly lower our greenhouse gas intensity. we remain committed to operating our assets in a safe and reliable manner and targeting continual improvement in our safety and environmental record across our operations through the use of a rigorous, independently audited management system, rc14001 :2015. this management system integrates health, environmental stewardship, safety and security to ensure compliance and continual improvement. six of our 16 refineries and our marathon pipe line, terminals and transport and rail organizations maintain rc14001 certification. additionally, our marine organization maintains management system certification through the american waterways operators responsible carrier program. we are continuing to align our recently acquired assets with our internal management system requirements. we proactively address our regulatory requirements and encourage our operations to continually improve their environmental performance through our dei program, which establishes goals and measures performance. dei is a metric adopted by mpc to capture several categories simultaneously. it includes three categories of environmental incidents: releases to the environment (air, land or water), environmental permit exceedances and agency enforcement actions. we rank deis in terms of their severity, with tier 4 being the most severe, and tier 1 being the least. we continually strive for improvements in our environmental performance. in 2019, we fully implemented the dei program across all of the assets we acquired from andeavor in october 2018. as a result of implementing the program, we achieved a 37 percent reduction in tier 3 and tier 4 deis from our 2018 baseline. our operations our operations consist of three reportable operating segments: refining &amp; marketing, retail and midstream. refining &amp; marketing refineries we currently own and operate 16 refineries in the gulf coast, mid-continent and west coast regions of the united states with an aggregate crude oil refining capacity of 3,067 mbpcd. during 2019 , our refineries processed 2,902 mbpd of crude oil and 210 mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. during 2018 , our refineries processed 2,081 mbpd of crude oil and 193 mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. our refineries include crude oil atmospheric and vacuum distillation, fluid catalytic cracking, hydrocracking, catalytic reforming, coking, desulfurization and sulfur recovery units. the refineries process a wide variety of condensate and light and heavy crude oils purchased from various domestic and foreign suppliers. we produce numerous refined products, ranging from transportation fuels, such as reformulated gasolines, blend-grade gasolines intended for blending with ethanol and ulsd fuel, to heavy fuel oil and asphalt. additionally, we manufacture aromatics, propane, propylene and sulfur. see the refined product marketing section for further information about the products we produce. our refineries are integrated with each other via pipelines, terminals and barges to maximize operating efficiency. the transportation links that connect our refineries allow the movement of intermediate products between refineries to optimize operations, produce higher margin products and efficiently utilize our processing capacity. for example, naphtha may be moved from dickinson to garyville where excess reforming capacity is available. also, shipping intermediate products between facilities during partial refinery shutdowns allows us to utilize processing capacity that is not directly affected by the shutdown work. 7 table of contents following is a description of each of our refineries and their capacity by region. gulf coast region ( 1,163 mbpcd) galveston bay, texas city, texas refinery ( 585 mbpcd) . our galveston bay refinery is a world-class refining complex resulting from the combination of our former texas city refinery and galveston bay refinery. the refinery is located on the texas gulf coast approximately 30 miles southeast of houston, texas and can process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, feedstocks, distillates, petrochemicals, propane and heavy fuel oil. the refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products. our cogeneration facility, which supplies the galveston bay refinery, currently has 1,055 megawatts of electrical production capacity and can produce 4.3 million pounds of steam per hour. approximately 46 percent of the power generated in 2019 was used at the refinery, with the remaining electricity being sold into the electricity grid. garyville, louisiana refinery ( 578 mbpcd) . our garyville refinery, which is one of the largest refineries in the u.s., is located along the mississippi river in southeastern louisiana between new orleans, louisiana and baton rouge, louisiana. the garyville refinery is configured to process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, petrochemicals, feedstocks, asphalt, propane and heavy fuel oil. the refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products. our garyville refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. mid-continent region ( 1,193 mbpcd) catlettsburg, kentucky refinery ( 291 mbpcd) . our catlettsburg refinery is located in northeastern kentucky on the western bank of the big sandy river, near the confluence with the ohio river. the catlettsburg refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils, including production from the nearby utica shale, into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, petrochemicals, heavy fuel oil, propane and feedstocks. our catlettsburg refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. robinson, illinois refinery ( 253 mbpcd) . our robinson refinery is located in southeastern illinois. the robinson refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, feedstocks, petrochemicals, propane and heavy fuel oil. the robinson refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. detroit, michigan refinery ( 140 mbpcd) . our detroit refinery is located in southwest detroit. it is the only petroleum refinery currently operating in michigan. the detroit refinery processes sweet and heavy sour crude oils, including canadian crude oils, into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, feedstocks, petrochemicals, propane and heavy fuel oil. our detroit refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. el paso, texas refinery ( 131 mbpcd) . our el paso refinery is located approximately three miles east of downtown el paso, texas. the el paso refinery processes sweet and sour crudes into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, heavy fuel oil, propane, feedstocks and petrochemicals. st. paul park, minnesota refinery ( 103 mbpcd) . our st. paul park refinery is located along the mississippi river southeast of st. paul park, minnesota. the st. paul park refinery primarily processes sweet crude from the bakken region in north dakota as well as various grades of canadian sweet and heavy sour crude and manufactures gasoline, distillates, asphalt, feedstocks, propane, petrochemicals and heavy fuel oil. canton, ohio refinery ( 95 mbpcd) . our canton refinery is located approximately 60 miles south of cleveland, ohio. the canton refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils, including production from the nearby utica shale, into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, feedstocks, propane, petrochemicals and heavy fuel oil. the canton refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. mandan, north dakota refinery ( 71 mbpcd) . the mandan refinery processes primarily sweet domestic crude oil from north dakota and manufactures gasoline, distillates, propane, heavy fuel oil, feedstocks and petrochemicals. salt lake city, utah refinery ( 63 mbpcd) . our salt lake city refinery is now the largest in utah. the salt lake city refinery processes crude oil from utah, colorado, wyoming and canada to manufacture gasoline, distillates, feedstocks, propane, heavy fuel oil and petrochemicals. gallup, new mexico refinery ( 27 mbpcd) . our gallup refinery is located near gallup, new mexico and is the only active refinery in the four corners area. the gallup refinery primarily processes high-quality crude known as four corners sweet into gasoline, distillates, feedstocks, heavy fuel oil and propane. 8 table of contents dickinson, north dakota refinery ( 19 mbpcd) . our dickinson refinery is located four miles west of dickinson, north dakota. the dickinson refinery primarily processes domestic crude oil from north dakota and manufactures ultra-low sulfur diesel and feedstocks. we are in the process of converting this refinery into an approximately 180 million gallon per year renewable diesel facility by december 2020. west coast region ( 711 mbpcd) los angeles, california refinery ( 363 mbpcd) . our los angeles refinery is located in los angeles county, near the los angeles harbor. the los angeles refinery is the largest refinery on the west coast and is a major producer of clean fuels. the los angeles refinery processes heavy crude from california's san joaquin valley and los angeles basin as well as crudes from the alaska north slope, south america, west africa and other international sources and manufactures cleaner-burning carb gasoline and carb diesel fuel, as well as conventional gasoline, distillates, feedstocks, petrochemicals, propane and heavy fuel oil. martinez, california refinery ( 161 mbpcd) . our martinez refinery is located in martinez, california. the martinez refinery processes crude oils from california and other domestic and foreign sources and manufactures cleaner-burning carb gasoline and carb diesel fuel, as well as conventional gasoline and distillates, feedstocks, petrochemicals, propane and heavy fuel oil. anacortes, washington refinery ( 119 mbpcd) . our anacortes refinery is located about 70 miles north of seattle on puget sound. the anacortes refinery processes canadian crude, domestic crude from north dakota and alaska north slope and international crudes to manufacture gasoline, distillates, heavy fuel oil, feedstocks, propane and petrochemicals. kenai, alaska refinery ( 68 mbpcd) . our kenai refinery is located on the cook inlet, 60 miles southwest of anchorage. the kenai refinery processes mainly alaska domestic crude, domestic crude from north dakota, along with limited international crude and manufactures distillates, gasoline, heavy fuel oil, feedstocks, asphalt, propane and petrochemicals. planned maintenance activities, or turnarounds, requiring temporary shutdown of certain refinery operating units, are periodically performed at each refinery. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional detail. refined product yields the following table sets forth our refinery production by product group for each of the last three years including production from the refineries acquired in the andeavor acquisition from october 1, 2018 forward. ( mbpd ) 2019 2018 2017 gasoline 1,560 1,107 932 distillates 1,087 773 641 feedstocks and petrochemicals 315 288 277 asphalt 87 69 63 propane 55 41 36 heavy fuel oil 49 38 37 total 3,153 2,316 1,986 9 table of contents crude oil supply we obtain the crude oil we refine through negotiated term contracts and purchases or exchanges on the spot market. our term contracts generally have market-related pricing provisions. the following table provides information on our sources of crude oil for each of the last three years. it includes crude sourced for the refineries acquired in the andeavor acquisition from october 1, 2018 forward. the crude oil sourced outside of north america was acquired from various foreign national oil companies, production companies and trading companies. ( mbpd ) 2019 2018 2017 united states 1,962 1,319 999 canada 541 465 381 middle east and other international 399 297 385 total 2,902 2,081 1,765 our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks and distribute our refined products through a variety of channels, including pipelines, trucks, railcars, ships and barges. renewable fuels we in the process of converting our dickinson, north dakota refinery into an approximately 180 million gallon per year renewable diesel facility by december 2020. we own a biofuel production facility in cincinnati, ohio that produces biodiesel, glycerin and other by-products. the capacity of the plant is approximately 80 million gallons per year. our wholly-owned subsidiary, virent, is an advanced biofuels facility in madison, wisconsin that is working to commercialize a process for converting biobased feedstocks into renewable fuels and chemicals. we hold an ownership interest in ethanol production facilities in albion, michigan; logansport, indiana; greenville, ohio and denison, iowa. these plants have a combined ethanol production capacity of approximately 475 million gallons per year ( 31 mbpd) and are managed by our joint venture partner, the andersons. refined product marketing our refined products are sold to independent retailers, wholesale customers, our brand jobbers and our retail segment. in addition, we sell refined products for export to international customers. as of december 31, 2019 , there were 6,901 branded outlets in 35 states, the district of columbia and mexico where independent entrepreneurs primarily maintain marathon-branded outlets. we believe we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers and consumers within our 41 -state market area. the following table sets forth our refined product sales volumes by product group for each of the last three years including sales from the refineries acquired in the andeavor acquisition from october 1, 2018 forward. ( mbpd ) 2019 2018 2017 gasoline 1,967 1,416 1,201 distillates 1,205 847 691 feedstocks and petrochemicals 345 289 265 asphalt 93 70 68 propane 72 44 37 heavy fuel oil 53 37 39 total 3,735 2,703 2,301 10 table of contents refined product sales destined for export we sell gasoline, distillates and asphalt for export, primarily out of our garyville, galveston bay, anacortes, martinez, los angeles and kenai refineries. the following table sets forth our refined product sales destined for export by product group for the past three years including sales from the refineries acquired in the andeavor acquisition from october 1, 2018 forward. ( mbpd ) 2019 2018 2017 gasoline 131 117 96 distillates 215 193 192 asphalt and other 51 24 9 total 397 334 297 gasoline and distillates . we sell gasoline, gasoline blendstocks and distillates (including no. 1 and no. 2 fuel oils, jet fuel, kerosene and diesel fuel) to wholesale customers, marathon-branded independent entrepreneurs, our retail segment and on the spot market. in addition, we sell diesel fuel and gasoline for export to international customers. the demand for gasoline and distillates is seasonal in many of our markets, with demand typically at its highest levels during the summer months. feedstocks and petrochemicals . we are a producer and marketer of feedstocks and petrochemicals. product availability varies by refinery and includes, among others, propylene, naphtha, alkylate, xylene, butane, benzene, raffinate, dry gas, cumene, toluene and platformate. we market these products domestically to customers in the chemical, agricultural and fuel-blending industries. in addition, we produce fuel-grade coke at our garyville, detroit, galveston bay and los angeles refineries, which is used for power generation and in miscellaneous industrial applications, and anode-grade coke at our los angeles and robinson refineries, which is used to make carbon anodes for the aluminum smelting industry. asphalt . we have refinery-based asphalt production capacity of up to 136 mbpcd, which includes asphalt cements, polymer-modified asphalt, emulsified asphalt, industrial asphalts and roofing flux. we have a broad customer base, including asphalt-paving contractors, government entities (states, counties, cities and townships) and asphalt roofing shingle manufacturers. we sell asphalt in the domestic and export wholesale markets via rail, barge and vessel. propane . we produce propane at all of our refineries except dickinson. propane is primarily used for home heating and cooking, as a feedstock within the petrochemical industry, for grain drying and as a fuel for trucks and other vehicles. our propane sales are split approximately 80 percent and 20 percent between the home heating market and petrochemical consumers, respectively. heavy fuel oil . we produce and market heavy residual fuel oil or related components, including slurry, at all of our refineries except dickinson. heavy residual fuel oil is primarily used in the utility and ship bunkering (fuel) industries, though there are other more specialized uses of the product. terminals and transportation we transport, store and distribute crude oil, feedstocks and refined products through pipelines, terminals and marine fleets owned by mplx and third parties in our market areas. we own a fleet of transport trucks and trailers for the movement of refined products and crude oil. in addition, we maintain a fleet of leased and owned railcars for the movement and storage of refined products. the locations and detailed information about our refining &amp; marketing assets are included under item 2. properties and are incorporated herein by reference. 11 table of contents competition, market conditions and seasonality the downstream petroleum business is highly competitive, particularly with regard to accessing crude oil and other feedstock supply and the marketing of refined products. we compete with a number of other companies to acquire crude oil for refinery processing and in the distribution and marketing of a full array of refined products. based upon company data as reported in the the oil &amp; gas journal 2019 worldwide refinery survey, we ranked first among u.s. petroleum companies on the basis of u.s. crude oil refining capacity. we compete in four distinct markets for the sale of refined products wholesale, including exports, spot, branded and retail distribution. our marketing operations compete with numerous other independent marketers, integrated oil companies and high-volume retailers. we compete with companies in the sale of refined products to wholesale marketing customers, including private-brand marketers and large commercial and industrial consumers; companies in the sale of refined products in the spot market; and refiners or marketers in the supply of refined products to refiner-branded independent entrepreneurs. in addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and retail consumers. market conditions in the oil and gas industry are cyclical and subject to global economic and political events and new and changing governmental regulations. our operating results are affected by price changes in crude oil, natural gas and refined products, as well as changes in competitive conditions in the markets we serve. price differentials between sweet and sour crude oils, ans, wti and lls crude oils and other market structure impacts also affect our operating results. demand for gasoline, diesel fuel and asphalt is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets, primarily due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and construction. as a result, the operating results for our refining &amp; marketing segment for the first and fourth quarters may be lower than for those in the second and third quarters of each calendar year. retail our retail segment sells gasoline, diesel and merchandise through convenience stores that it owns and operates, primarily under the speedway brand, and gasoline and diesel through direct dealer locations. our company-owned and operated convenience stores offer a wide variety of merchandise, including prepared foods, beverages and non-food items. speedway's speedy rewards loyalty program has been a highly successful loyalty program since its inception in 2004, which averaged approximately 6.3 million active members in 2019 . speedway's ability to capture and analyze member-specific transactional data enables us to offer speedy rewards members discounts and promotions specific to their buying behavior. we believe speedy rewards is a key reason customers choose speedway over competitors and it continues to drive significant value for both speedway and our speedy rewards members. as of december 31, 2019 , our retail segment had 3,898 company-owned and operated convenience stores across the united states and we have long-term supply contracts for 1,068 direct dealer locations primarily in southern california, largely under the arco brand. speedway also owns a 29 percent interest in pfj southeast llc ( pfj southeast ), which is a joint venture between speedway and pilot flying j with 125 travel center locations primarily in the southeast united states as of december 31, 2019 . additionally, speedway and pilot travel centers llc ( ptc ) entered into an agreement effective october 1, 2019 in which ptc will supply, price and sell diesel fuel at certain speedway and ptc locations with both companies sharing in the diesel fuel margins. at december 31, 2019 , this agreement included approximately 330 speedway and ptc fueling locations across 13 states, including approximately 180 speedway commercial fueling locations. the locations and detailed information about our retail assets are included under item 2. properties and are incorporated herein by reference. competition, market conditions and seasonality we face strong competition for sales of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. our competitors include service stations and convenience stores operated by fully integrated major oil companies, independent entrepreneurs and other well-recognized national or regional convenience stores and travel centers, often selling gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise at competitive prices. non-traditional transportation fuel retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, have affected the convenience store industry with their 12 table of contents entrance into sales of retail gasoline and diesel fuel. energy analysts international, inc. estimated such retailers had approximately 16 percent of the u.s. gasoline market in 2019 . demand for gasoline and diesel fuel is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets, primarily due to seasonal increases in highway traffic. as a result, the operating results for our retail segment for the first and fourth quarters may be lower than for those in the second and third quarters of each calendar year. margins from the sale of merchandise tend to be less volatile than margins from the retail sale of gasoline and diesel fuel. midstream the midstream segment primarily includes the operations of mplx, our sponsored mlp, and certain related operations retained by mpc. mplx mplx owns and operates a network of crude oil, natural gas and refined product pipelines and has joint ownership interests in other crude oil and refined products pipelines. mplx also owns and operates light products terminals, storage assets and maintains a fleet of owned and leased towboats and barges. mplx's assets also include natural gas gathering systems and natural gas processing and ngl fractionation complexes. mpc-retained midstream assets and investments we have ownership interests in several crude oil and refined products pipeline systems and pipeline companies and have indirect ownership interests in two ocean vessel joint ventures through our investment in crowley coastal partners. the locations and detailed information about our midstream assets are included under item 2. properties and are incorporated herein by reference. competition, market conditions and seasonality our midstream operations face competition for natural gas gathering, crude oil transportation and in obtaining natural gas supplies for our processing and related services; in obtaining unprocessed ngls for gathering and fractionation; and in marketing our products and services. competition for natural gas supplies is based primarily on the location of gas gathering facilities and gas processing plants, operating efficiency and reliability and the ability to obtain a satisfactory price for products recovered. competitive factors affecting our fractionation services include availability of capacity, proximity to supply and industry marketing centers and cost efficiency and reliability of service. competition for customers to purchase our natural gas and ngls is based primarily on price, delivery capabilities, flexibility and maintenance of high-quality customer relationships. in addition, certain of our midstream operations are highly regulated, which affects the rates that our common carrier pipelines can charge for transportation services and the return we obtain from such pipelines. our midstream segment can be affected by seasonal fluctuations in the demand for natural gas and ngls and the related fluctuations in commodity prices caused by various factors such as changes in transportation and travel patterns and variations in weather patterns from year to year. environmental matters our management is responsible for ensuring that our operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that support and foster our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and for reviewing our overall environmental performance. we also have a corporate emergency response team that oversees our response to any major environmental or other emergency incident involving us or any of our facilities. we believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to greenhouse gas emissions, climate change, and climate adaptation will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations. currently, legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas emissions are in various phases of review, discussion or implementation. the cost to comply with these laws and regulations cannot be estimated at this time, but could be significant. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors. we estimate and publicly report greenhouse gas emissions from our operations. additionally, we continuously strive to improve operational and energy efficiencies through resource and energy conservation where practicable. 13 table of contents our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. such laws and regulations include, among others, the clean air act ( caa ) with respect to air emissions, the clean water act ( cwa ) with respect to water discharges, the resource conservation and recovery act ( rcra ) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ( cercla ) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances and the oil pollution act of 1990 ( opa-90 ) with respect to oil pollution and response. in addition, many states where we operate have similar laws. new laws are being enacted and regulations are being adopted on a continuing basis, and the costs of compliance with such new laws and regulations are very difficult to estimate until finalized. for a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-environmental matters and compliance costs. air greenhouse gas emissions we are subject to many requirements in connection with air emissions from our operations. internationally and domestically, emphasis has been placed on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. in july 2019, the trump administration continued its shift in climate-related policy away from the obama administration's policies by repealing the clean power plan and replacing it with the affordable clean energy rule, which establishes guidelines for states to develop plans to address greenhouse gas emissions from existing coal-fired power plants. president trump also announced the united states' intention to withdraw from the 2015 paris un climate change conference agreement, which aims to hold the increase in the global average temperature to well below two degrees celsius as compared to pre-industrial levels. many of the policies and regulations rescinded through executive order 13783 had been adopted to meet the united states' pledge under the paris agreement. the u.s. climate change strategy and implementation of that strategy through legislation and regulation may change under future administrations; therefore, the impact to our industry and operations due to greenhouse gas regulation is unknown at this time. in the absence of federal legislation or regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, states are becoming active in regulating greenhouse gas emissions. these measures may include state actions to develop statewide or regional programs to impose emission reductions. these measures may also include low-carbon fuel standards, such as the california program, or a state carbon tax. these measures could result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, capital expenditures to install new emission controls and costs to administer any carbon trading or tax programs implemented. for example, in 2017, the california state legislature adopted ab 398, which provides direction and parameters on utilizing cap and trade after 2020 to meet the 40% reduction target from 1990 levels by 2030 specified in sb 32. compliance with the cap and trade program is demonstrated through a market-based credit system. the carb is now exploring the potential for additional greenhouse gas reductions by 2045 via a yet undefined carbon neutrality standard. much of the compliance costs associated with these california regulations are ultimately passed on to the consumer in the form of higher fuel costs. we cannot currently predict the impact of these regulations on our liquidity, financial position, or results of operations, but we do not believe such impact will be material. in sum, requiring reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any greenhouse gas emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments. these requirements may also significantly affect mpc's refinery operations and may have an indirect effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the extent and magnitude of the impact from greenhouse gas regulation or legislation cannot be reasonably estimated due to the uncertainty regarding the additional measures and how they will be implemented. regardless of whether legislation or regulation is enacted, given the continuing global demand for oil and gas - even under different hypothetical carbon-constrained scenarios - mpc has taken actions that have resulted in lower greenhouse gas emission intensity and we believe we are positioned to remain a successful company well into the future. we have instituted a program to improve energy efficiency of our refineries and other assets which will continue to pay dividends in reducing our environmental footprint as well as making us more cost-competitive. we believe our mature governance and risk-management processes enable the company to effectively monitor and adjust to any transitional, reputational or physical climate-related risks. 14 table of contents other air emissions in 2015, united states environmental protection agency ( epa ) finalized a revision to the national ambient air quality standards ( naaqs ) for ozone. the epa lowered the primary ozone naaqs from 75 ppb to 70 ppb. this revision initiated a multi-year process in which nonattainment designations will be made based on more recent ozone measurements that includes data from 2016. on november 6, 2017, the epa finalized ozone attainment/unclassifiable designations for certain areas under the new standard. in actions dated april 30, 2018 and july 25, 2018, the epa finalized nonattainment designations for certain areas under the lower primary ozone standard. in some areas, these nonattainment designations could result in increased costs associated with, or result in cancellation or delay of, capital projects at our facilities. for areas designated nonattainment, states will be required to adopt state implementation plans ( sips ) for nonattainment areas. these sips may include nox and/or volatile organic compound ( voc ) reductions that could result in increased costs to our facilities. we cannot predict the effects of the various sips requirements at this time. in california, the board for the south coast air quality management district ( scaqmd ) passed amendments to the regional clean air incentives market ( reclaim ) that became effective in 2016, requiring a staged reduction of nitrogen oxide emissions through 2022. in 2017, the state of california passed ab 617, which requires each air district that is a nonattainment area for one or more air pollutants to adopt an expedited schedule for implementation of best available retrofit control technology ( barct ) on specific facilities. barct applies to all facilities subject to reclaim. in response to ab 617, the scaqmd is currently working to sunset the existing reclaim program and replace it with applicable barct regulations. a sunset of the reclaim program and application of barct could result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities or install emissions controls at our facilities in the scaqmd. water we maintain numerous discharge permits as required under the national pollutant discharge elimination system program of the cwa and have implemented systems to oversee our compliance with these permits. in addition, we are regulated under opa-90, which, among other things, requires the owner or operator of a tank vessel or a facility to maintain an emergency plan to respond to releases of oil or hazardous substances. opa-90 also requires the responsible company to pay resulting removal costs and damages and provides for civil penalties and criminal sanctions for violations of its provisions. we operate tank vessels and facilities from which spills of oil and hazardous substances could occur. we have implemented emergency oil response plans for all of our components and facilities covered by opa-90 and we have established spill prevention, control and countermeasures plans for all facilities subject to such requirements. additionally, opa-90 requires that new tank vessels entering or operating in u.s. waters be double-hulled and that existing tank vessels that are not double-hulled be retrofitted or removed from u.s. service. all barges used for river transport of our raw materials and refined products meet the double-hulled requirements of opa-90. some coastal states in which we operate have passed state laws similar to opa-90, but with expanded liability provisions, that include provisions for cargo owner responsibility as well as ship owner and operator responsibility. on october 22, 2019, the epa and the united states army corps of engineers ( army corps ) published a final rule to repeal the 2015 clean water rule: definition of waters of the united states ( 2015 rule ), which amended portions of the code of federal regulations ( cfr ) to restore the regulatory text that existed prior to the 2015 rule, effective december 23, 2019. the rule repealing the 2015 clean water rule has been challenged in multiple federal courts. on january 23, 2020, the epa and the army corps finalized the navigable waters protection rule ( 2020 rule ) to define waters of the united states. this rule will become effective 60 days after publication in the federal register and will replace the pre-2015 regulatory text that had been restored by the october 2019 rule. the 2020 rule will likely be challenged in court. a broader definition of waters of the united states, such as that included in the 2015 rule, could result in increased cost of compliance or increased capital costs for construction of new facilities or expansion of existing facilities. in 2015, the epa issued its intent to review the cwa categorical effluent limitation guidelines ( elg ) for the petroleum refining sector. during 2017, the epa prepared and issued an information request ( icr ) requesting significant wastewater and treatment process details from select refineries, seven of which were ours. responses to the icr were submitted to the epa in early 2018. in september 2019, the epa issued its detailed study of the petroleum refining category - 2019 report which concluded the epa's review. in october 2019, the epa published its preliminary effluent guidelines program plan 14 ( plan 14 ) and requested comments. plan 14 indicated that the epa was proposing to conclude the study of the petroleum 15 table of contents refinery category and not take further action at this time, however, it also indicated that it intended a future review or study of the category but did not elaborate on scope or timing of such review or study. changes in the elg could result in increased costs of compliance, including capital improvement projects at our facilities. as part of our emergency response activities, we have used aqueous film forming foam ( afff ) containing per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances ( pfas ) chemicals as a fire suppressant. at this time, afffs containing pfas are the only proven foams that can prevent and control most flammable petroleum-based liquid fires. in may 2016, the epa issued lifetime health advisories ( has ) and health effects support documents for two pfas substances - perfluorooctanoic acid ( pfoa ) and perfluorooctane sulfonate ( pfos ). the epa's has, which identify the concentration of pfoa and pfos in drinking water at or below which adverse health effects are not anticipated to occur over a lifetime of exposure, are 0.07 parts per billion (70 parts per trillion) for pfoa and pfos. has are non-regulatory and reflect the epa's assessment of the best available peer-reviewed science. in february 2019, epa issued a pfas action plan identifying actions the epa is planning to take to study and regulate various pfas chemicals. the epa identified that it would evaluate, among other actions, (1) proposing national drinking water standards for pfoa and pfos, (2) develop cleanup recommendations for pfoa and pfos, (3) evaluate listing pfoa and pfos as hazardous substances under cercla, and (4) conduct toxicity assessments for other pfas chemicals. in february 2020, the epa announced its preliminary determinations to regulate pfos and pfoa in drinking water and is taking public comment on such preliminary determinations. if the preliminary determinations become final, the epa will set drinking water limits for pfos and pfoa. congress has introduced multiple bills in the house and senate proposing to regulate pfas. to date, only one such bill has been signed into law. the national defense authorization act includes provisions that added certain pfas to the toxics release inventory under the emergency planning and community right-to-know act. facilities that manufacture, process or produce listed pfas in quantities of more than 100 pounds per year will be required to report their releases of pfas. we expect further congressional action or epa action in the future, however, it is unknown at this time what future legislation and/or regulation will entail. in addition, many states are actively proposing and adopting legislation and regulations relating to the use of afff. additionally, some states are adopting and proposing state-specific drinking water and cleanup standards for various pfas. we cannot currently predict the impact of these regulations on our liquidity, financial position, or results of operations. solid waste we continue to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. rcra establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. besides affecting waste disposal practices, rcra also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of usts containing regulated substances. remediation we own or operate, or have owned or operated, certain convenience stores and other locations where, during the normal course of operations, releases of refined products from usts have occurred. federal and state laws require that contamination caused by such releases at these sites be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards. penalties or other sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance. the enforcement of the ust regulations under rcra has been delegated to the states, which administer their own ust programs. our obligation to remediate such contamination varies, depending on the extent of the releases and the applicable state laws and regulations. a portion of these remediation costs may be recoverable from the appropriate state ust reimbursement funds once the applicable deductibles have been satisfied. we also have ongoing remediation projects at a number of our current and former refinery, terminal and pipeline locations. claims under cercla and similar state acts have been raised with respect to the clean-up of various waste disposal and other sites. cercla is intended to facilitate the clean-up of hazardous substances without regard to fault. potentially responsible parties for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the hazardous substances at the site. liability is strict and can be joint and several. because of various factors including the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and clean-up costs and the time period during 16 table of contents which such costs may be incurred, we are unable to reasonably estimate our ultimate cost of compliance with cercla; however, we do not believe such costs will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. renewable fuels and other fuels requirements the u.s. congress passed the energy independence and security act of 2007 ( eisa ), which, among other things, set a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the united states by model year 2020. in august 2012, the epa and the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ) jointly adopted regulations that increased the mile per gallon standards for passenger cars and light trucks through model year 2025. in 2018, the epa and the nhtsa jointly proposed the safer affordable fuel-efficient vehicles rules for model years 2021-2026, which would propose new corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) standards for model years 2022 through 2026, amend the 2021 model year cafe standards, amend the epa's carbon dioxide emission standards for model years 2021 through 2025, and establish new carbon dioxide emission standards for model year 2026. the epa's preferred alternative is to retain the model year 2020 standards for both programs through model year 2026. the standards established by the final regulation may differ. higher cafe standards for cars and light trucks have the potential to reduce demand for our transportation fuels. in addition, the nhtsa and the epa issued rules providing that the energy policy and conservation act ( epca ) preempts state regulations of tailpipe carbon dioxide emissions, withdrew the waiver granted to california for its advanced clean car program and determined that the clean air act permits other states to adopt only those california standards that are designed to control traditional criteria pollutants. california may establish per its clean air act waiver authority different standards that could apply in multiple states. new or alternative transportation fuels such as compressed natural gas could also pose a competitive threat to our operations. pursuant to the energy policy act of 2005 and the eisa, the epa has promulgated a renewable fuel standard ( rfs ) program that requires certain volumes of renewable fuel be blended with our products. eisa requires the total volume of renewable transportation fuels sold or introduced annually in the u.s. to reach 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. within the total volume of renewable fuel, eisa established nested categories of renewable fuel: advanced biofuel; biomass-based diesel; and cellulosic biofuel. by november 30 of each year, the epa is required to promulgate the annual renewable fuel standards for the following compliance year. in a legal challenge to the 2014-2016 volumes, the d.c. circuit court of appeals vacated the total renewable volume for 2016 and remanded to the epa for reconsideration consistent with the court's opinion. a rule that increases the total renewable volume for any compliance year to make up for the 2016 shortfall could increase our cost of compliance with the rfs program, require us to use carryover rins and be detrimental to the rin market. the epa has finalized the annual renewable fuel standards for the year 2020. for the first time, the epa has proposed to reallocate to non-exempt obligated parties the renewable volume obligations of the refiners that were granted a small refinery exemption. also, the tenth circuit court of appeals recently held that a small refinery is eligible for an exemption from the rfs only if it is applying for an extension of its original exemption. according to the epa's data, seven refineries were granted the small refinery exemption in 2015. the epa granted 19 small refinery exemptions in 2016, 35 exemptions in 2017, and 31 exemptions in 2018. a lawsuit challenging the 2018 small refinery exemption letter is currently pending in the d.c. circuit court of appeals, and similar additional lawsuits may be filed in the future. the reallocation of volumes under the 2020 rule or the invalidation of past small refinery exemptions granted to us or other refiners could result in a decrease in the rin bank, an increase in the price of rins or an increase in the amount of renewable fuel we are required to blend, any of which could increase mpc's rfs cost of compliance. the rfs is satisfied primarily with ethanol blended into gasoline. vehicle, regulatory and infrastructure constraints limit the blending of significantly more than 10 percent ethanol into gasoline ( e10 ). since 2016, the volume requirements have resulted in the ethanol content of gasoline exceeding the e10 blendwall, which will require obligated parties to either sell e15 or ethanol flex fuel at levels that exceed historical levels or retire carryover rins. there is currently no regulatory method for verifying the validity of the rins sold on the open market. we have developed a rin integrity program to vet the rins that we purchase, and we incur costs to audit rin 17 table of contents generators. nevertheless, if any of the rins that we purchase and use for compliance are found to be invalid, we could incur costs and penalties for replacing the invalid rins. in addition to the federal renewable fuel standards, certain states have, or are considering, promulgation of state renewable or low carbon fuel standards. for example, california began implementing its low carbon fuel standard ( lcfs ) in january 2011. in september 2015, the carb approved the re-adoption of the lcfs, which became effective on january 1, 2016, to address procedural deficiencies in the way the original regulation was adopted. the lcfs was amended again in 2018 with the current version targeting a 20 percent reduction in fuel carbon intensity from a 2010 baseline by 2030. the carb is now exploring the imposition of a 50% renewable fuel requirement for diesel (low emission diesel) sold in california by 2030. we incur costs to comply with the california lcfs, and these costs may increase if the cost of lcfs credits increases. in sum, the rfs has required, and may in the future continue to require, additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. we may experience a decrease in demand for refined products due to an increase in combined fleet mileage or due to refined products being replaced by renewable fuels. demand for our refined products also may decrease as a result of low carbon fuel standard programs or electric vehicle mandates. tribal lands various federal agencies, including the epa and the department of the interior, along with certain native american tribes, promulgate and enforce regulations pertaining to oil and gas operations on native american tribal lands where we operate. these regulations include such matters as lease provisions, drilling and production requirements, and standards to protect environmental quality and cultural resources. for example, the epa has established a preconstruction permitting program for new and modified minor sources throughout native american tribal lands, and new and modified major sources in nonattainment areas in those areas. in addition, each native american tribe is a sovereign nation having the right to enforce certain laws and regulations and to grant approvals independent from federal, state and local statutes and regulations. these laws and regulations may increase our costs of doing business on native american tribal lands and impact the viability of, or prevent or delay our ability to conduct, our operations on such lands. trademarks, patents and licenses o ur marathon trademark is material to the conduct of our refining and marketing operations, and our speedway and arco trademarks are material to the conduct of our retail operations. additionally, the retail and marketing businesses we acquired in the andeavor acquisition primarily use the shell and mobil brands for fuel sales and ampm and giant brands for convenience store merchandise. we currently hold a number of u.s. and foreign patents and have various pending patent applications. although in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important to us, we do not regard any single patent or license or group of related patents or licenses as critical or essential to our business as a whole. in general, we depend on our technological capabilities and the application of know-how rather than patents and licenses in the conduct of our operations. employees we had approximately 60,910 regular full-time and part-time employees as of december 31, 2019 , which includes approximately 40,390 employees of our retail segment. approximately 4,650 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. of these employees, approximately 190 employees at our st. paul park refinery are covered by a collective bargaining agreement scheduled to expire on december 31, 2020. approximately 280 employees at our el paso refinery are covered by a collective bargaining agreement scheduled to expire in april 2021. approximately 3,425 employees at our anacortes, canton, catlettsburg, galveston bay, los angeles, mandan, martinez and salt lake city refineries are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are due to expire in early 2022. the remaining 750 hourly represented employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with expiration dates ranging from 2021 to 2024. 18 table of contents information about our executive and corporate officers the executive and corporate officers of mpc are as follows: name age as of february 1, 2020 position with mpc gary r. heminger 66 chairman and chief executive officer donald c. templin 56 executive vice president and chief financial officer timothy t. griffith 50 president, speedway llc michael j. hennigan 60 mplx president and chief executive officer raymond l. brooks 59 executive vice president, refining glenn m. plumby* 60 executive vice president and chief operating officer, speedway llc suzanne gagle 54 general counsel fiona c. laird* 58 chief human resources officer c. tracy case* 59 senior vice president, western refining operations richard a. hernandez* 60 senior vice president, eastern refining operations rick d. hessling* 53 senior vice president, crude oil supply and logistics brian k. partee* 46 senior vice president, marketing david r. sauber* 56 senior vice president, labor relations, operations, health and administrative services david l. whikehart* 60 senior vice president, light products, supply and logistics molly r. benson* 53 vice president, chief securities, governance &amp; compliance officer and corporate secretary david r. heppner* 53 vice president, commercial and business development thomas kaczynski 58 vice president, finance and treasurer kristina a. kazarian* 37 vice president, investor relations d. rick linhardt* 61 vice president, tax john j. quaid 48 vice president and controller, principal accounting officer karma m. thomson* 52 vice president, corporate affairs donald w. wehrly* 60 vice president and chief information officer james r. wilkins* 53 vice president, environment, safety and security * corporate officer. mr. heminger is chairman of the board and chief executive officer. he has served as the chairman of the board since april 2016 and as chief executive officer since june 2011. mr. heminger also served as president from july 2011 until june 2017. he has served as mplx's chairman of the board since june 2012 and as chief executive officer from june 2012 through october 2019. mr. heminger began his career with marathon in 1975 and has served in roles in finance and administration, auditing, marketing and commercial, and business development, including as president of marathon pipe line company; manager, business development and joint interest of marathon oil company; and vice president and senior vice president, business development, marathon ashland petroleum llc. in 2001, he was named executive vice president, supply, transportation and marketing, and was appointed president of marathon petroleum company llc and executive vice president-downstream of marathon oil corporation later that year. mr. heminger has announced his plans to retire as chairman of the board and chief executive officer effective april 29, 2020. he will also retire from mplx's board of directors on that date. mr. templin was appointed executive vice president and chief financial officer effective july 2019. prior to this appointment, he served as president, refining, marketing and supply beginning in october 2018, president beginning in july 2017, executive vice president of mpc and president of mplx beginning in january 2016, executive vice president, supply, transportation and marketing beginning in march 2015, vice president and chief financial officer of mplx beginning in 2012, and senior vice president and chief financial officer of mpc beginning in june 2011. 19 table of contents mr. griffith was appointed president of speedway llc effective july 2019. prior to this appointment, he served as senior vice president and chief financial officer beginning in march 2015, vice president, finance and investor relations, and treasurer beginning in january 2014, and vice president of finance and treasurer beginning in august 2011. mr. hennigan was appointed chief executive officer of mplx effective november 2019 and has served as president since june 2017. before joining mplx, mr. hennigan was president, crude, ngl and refined products of the general partner of energy transfer partners l.p., an energy service provider. he was president and chief executive officer of sunoco logistics partners l.p., an oil and gas transportation, terminalling and storage company, from 2012 to 2017, president and chief operating officer beginning in 2010, and vice president, business development beginning in 2009. mr. brooks was appointed executive vice president, refining effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, he served as senior vice president, refining beginning in march 2016, general manager of the galveston bay refinery beginning in february 2013, general manager of the robinson refinery beginning in 2010, and general manager of the st. paul park, minnesota refinery beginning in 2006. mr. plumby was appointed executive vice president and chief operating officer, speedway llc effective august 2019. prior to this appointment, he served as senior vice president and chief operating officer, speedway llc beginning in january 2018, senior vice president of operations, speedway llc beginning in september 2013, and vice president of operations, speedway llc beginning in december 2010. ms. gagle was appointed general counsel effective march 2016. prior to this appointment, she served as assistant general counsel, litigation and human resources beginning in april 2011, senior group counsel, downstream operations beginning in 2010, and group counsel, litigation beginning in 2003. ms. laird was appointed chief human resources officer effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, she was chief human resources officer at andeavor beginning in february 2018. before joining andeavor, ms. laird was chief human resources and communications officer for newell brands, a global consumer goods company, beginning in may 2016 and executive vice president, human resources for unilever, a global consumer goods company, beginning in july 2011. mr. case was appointed senior vice president, western refining operations effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, he served as general manager of the garyville refinery beginning in december 2014, and general manager of the detroit refinery beginning in june 2010. mr. hernandez was appointed senior vice president, eastern refining operations effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, he served as general manager of the galveston bay refinery beginning in february 2016, and general manager of the catlettsburg refinery beginning in june 2013. mr. hessling was appointed senior vice president, crude oil supply and logistics effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, he served as manager, crude oil &amp; natural gas supply and trading beginning in september 2014, and crude oil logistics &amp; analysis manager beginning in july 2011. mr. partee was appointed senior vice president, marketing effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, he served as vice president, business development beginning in february 2018, director of business development beginning in january 2017, manager of crude oil logistics beginning in september 2014, and vice president, business development and franchise at speedway beginning in november 2012. mr. sauber was appointed senior vice president, labor relations, operations, health and administrative services effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, he served as senior vice president, human resources, health and administrative services beginning in january 2018, and vice president, human resources and labor relations beginning in february 2017. before joining mpc, mr. sauber was vice president, human resources policy, benefits and services of shell oil company, a global energy and petrochemical company, beginning in 2013. mr. whikehart was appointed senior vice president, light products, supply and logistics effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, he served as vice president, environment, safety and corporate affairs beginning in february 2016, vice president, corporate planning, government &amp; public affairs beginning in january 2016, and director, product supply and optimization beginning in march 2011. 20 table of contents ms. benson was appointed vice president, chief compliance officer and corporate secretary effective march 2016 and as chief securities and governance officer effective june 2018. prior to her 2016 appointment, she served as assistant general counsel, corporate and finance beginning in april 2012. mr. heppner was appointed vice president, commercial and business development effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, he served as senior vice president of engineering services and corporate support of speedway llc beginning in september 2014, and director, wholesale marketing beginning in january 2010. mr. kaczynski was appointed vice president, finance and treasurer effective august 2015. prior to this appointment, he was vice president and treasurer of goodyear tire and rubber company, one of the world's largest tire manufacturers, beginning in 2014, and vice president, investor relations beginning in 2013. ms. kazarian was appointed vice president, investor relations effective april 2018. prior to this appointment, she was managing director and head of the mlp, midstream and refining equity research teams at credit suisse, a global investment bank and financial services company, beginning in september 2017. previously, ms. kazarian was managing director of mlp, midstream and natural gas equity research at deutsche bank, a global investment bank and financial services company, beginning in september 2014, and an analyst specializing on various energy industry subsectors with fidelity management &amp; research company, a privately held investment manager, beginning in 2005. mr. linhardt was appointed vice president, tax effective february 2018. prior to this appointment, he served as director of tax beginning in june 2017, and manager of tax compliance beginning in may 2013. mr. quaid was appointed vice president and controller effective june 2014. prior to this appointment, he was vice president of iron ore at united states steel corporation, an integrated steel producer, beginning in january 2014, and vice president and treasurer beginning in august 2011. ms. thomson was appointed vice president, corporate affairs effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, she was vice president of andeavor logistics beginning in june 2017, and andeavor's vice president, salt lake city refinery beginning in october 2012. mr. wehrly was appointed vice president and chief information officer effective june 2011. mr. wilkins was appointed vice president, environment, safety and security effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, he served as director, environment, safety, security and product quality beginning in february 2016, and director, refining environmental, safety, security and process safety management beginning in june 2013. available information general information about mpc, including corporate governance principles and charters for the audit committee, compensation committee, corporate governance and nominating committee and sustainability committee, can be found at www.marathonpetroleum.com by selecting investors under corporate governance and board of directors . in addition, our code of business conduct and code of ethics for senior financial officers are also available in this same location. we will post on our website any amendments to, or waivers from, either of our codes requiring disclosure under applicable rules within four business days of the amendment or waiver. mpc uses its website, www.marathonpetroleum.com , as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, financial information and market data. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished with the sec. these documents are also available in hard copy, free of charge, by contacting our investor relations office. in addition, our website allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive email alerts when we post news releases and financial information on our website. information contained on our website is not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k or other securities filings. 21 table of contents item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider each of the following risks and all the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k in evaluating us and our common stock. some of these risks relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate, while others relate to the ownership of our common stock. our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by these risks, and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline. risks relating to our business our financial results are affected by volatile refining margins, which are dependent on factors beyond our control. our operating results, cash flows, future rate of growth, the carrying value of our assets and our ability to execute share repurchases and continue the payment of our base dividend are highly dependent on the margins we realize on our refined products. historically, refining and marketing margins have been volatile, and we believe they will continue to be volatile. our margins from the sale of gasoline and other refined products are influenced by a number of conditions, including the price of crude oil. the price of crude oil and the price at which we can sell our refined products may fluctuate independently due to a variety of regional and global market factors that are beyond our control, including: worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for crude oil and refined products; transportation infrastructure availability, local market conditions and operation levels of other refineries in our markets; natural gas and electricity supply costs incurred by refineries; political instability, threatened or actual terrorist incidents, armed conflict or other global political conditions; local weather conditions; seasonality of demand in our marketing areas due to increased highway traffic in the spring and summer months; natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornadoes; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and local, regional, national and worldwide economic conditions. some of these factors can vary by region and may change quickly, adding to market volatility, while others may have longer-term effects. the longer-term effects of these and other factors on refining and marketing margins are uncertain. we purchase our crude oil and other refinery feedstocks weeks before we refine them and sell the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the refined products from these feedstocks can have a significant effect on our financial results. we also purchase refined products manufactured by others for resale to our customers. price changes during the periods between purchasing and reselling those refined products can have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. lower refining and marketing margins may lead us to reduce the amount of refined products we produce, which may reduce our revenues, income from operations and cash flows. significant reductions in refining and marketing margins could require us to reduce our capital expenditures, impair the carrying value of our assets (such as property, plant and equipment, inventory or goodwill), and decrease or eliminate our share repurchase activity and our base dividend. legal, technological, political and scientific developments regarding emissions and fuel efficiency may decrease demand for transportation fuels. developments aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions may decrease the demand or increase the cost for our transportation fuels. attitudes toward these products and their relationship to the environment may significantly affect our effectiveness in marketing our products. government efforts to steer the public toward non-petroleum-based fuel dependent modes of transportation may foster a negative perception toward transportation fuels or increase costs for our products, thus affecting the public's attitude toward our major product. advanced technology and increased use of vehicles that do not use petroleum-based transportation 22 table of contents fuels or that are powered by hybrid engines would reduce demand for motor fuel. we may also incur increased costs for our products, which we may not be able to pass along to our customers. these developments could potentially have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. failure to manage risks associated with business interruptions could adversely impact our operations, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to business interruptions such as scheduled refinery turnarounds, unplanned maintenance or unplanned events such as explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents, power outages, severe weather, labor disputes, or other natural or man-made disasters, such as acts of terrorism. explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents involving our assets or operations may result in serious personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property and equipment, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us. damages resulting from an incident involving any of our assets or operations may result in our being named as a defendant in one or more lawsuits asserting potentially substantial claims or in our being assessed potentially substantial fines by governmental authorities. in addition, we operate in and adjacent to environmentally sensitive waters where tanker, pipeline, rail car and refined product transportation and storage operations are closely regulated by federal, state and local agencies and monitored by environmental interest groups. certain of our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks by tanker or barge. transportation and storage of crude oil, other feedstocks and refined products over and adjacent to water involves inherent risk and subjects us to the provisions of the opa-90 and state laws in u.s. coastal and great lakes states and states bordering inland waterways on which we operate, as well as international laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. if we are unable to promptly and adequately contain any accident or discharge involving tankers, pipelines, rail cars or above ground storage tanks transporting or storing crude oil, other feedstocks or refined products, we may be subject to substantial liability. in addition, the service providers we have contracted to aid us in a discharge response may be unavailable due to weather conditions, governmental regulations or other local or global events. international, federal or state rulings could divert our response resources to other global events. we do not insure against all potential losses, and, therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected liabilities and increased costs. we maintain insurance coverage in amounts we believe to be prudent against many, but not all, potential liabilities arising from operating hazards. uninsured liabilities arising from operating hazards, including explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases, cybersecurity breaches or other incidents involving our assets or operations, could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. marine vessel charter agreements may not provide complete indemnity for oil spills, and any marine charterer's liability insurance we carry may not cover all losses. historically, we also have maintained insurance coverage for physical damage and resulting business interruption to our major facilities, with significant self-insured retentions. in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance of the types and amounts we desire at reasonable rates. we rely on the performance of our information technology systems, and the interruption or failure of any information technology system, including an interruption or failure due to a cybersecurity breach, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are heavily dependent on our information technology systems, including our network infrastructure and cloud applications, for the safe and effective operation of our business. we rely on such systems to process, transmit and store electronic information, including financial records and personally identifiable information such as employee, customer, investor and payroll data, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including our supply chain, pipeline operations, gathering and processing operations, retail sales, credit card payments and authorizations at our retail outlets, financial transactions, banking and numerous other processes and transactions. our systems and infrastructure are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources including natural disasters, malware, power failures, cyber-attacks and other events. we also face various other cybersecurity threats from criminal hackers, state-sponsored intrusion, industrial espionage and employee malfeasance, including threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable. certain vendors have access to sensitive information, including personally 23 table of contents identifiable customer, investor and employee data and a breakdown of their technology systems or infrastructure as a result of a cyber-attack or otherwise could result in unauthorized disclosure of such information. our cybersecurity protections, infrastructure protection technologies, disaster recovery plans and employee training may not be sufficient to defend us against all unauthorized attempts to access our information. we have been and may in the future be subject to attempts to gain unauthorized access to our computer network and systems. to date, the impacts of prior events have not had a material adverse effect on us. any cybersecurity incident could result in theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential financial and other data, intellectual property, customer awards or loyalty points; give rise to remediation or other expenses; expose us to liability under federal and state laws; reduce our customers' willingness to do business with us; disrupt the services we provide to customers; and subject us to litigation and legal liability under federal and state laws. any of such results could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. competition in our industry is intense, and very aggressive competition could adversely impact our business. we compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. competitors with integrated operations with exploration and production resources and broader access to resources may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions and to bear the risks inherent in the refining industry. for example, competitors that engage in exploration and production of crude oil may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. we also face strong competition in the market for the retail sale of transportation fuels and merchandise. our competitors include outlets owned or operated by fully integrated major oil companies or their dealers or jobbers, and other well-recognized national or regional retail outlets, often selling transportation fuels and merchandise at very competitive prices. several non-traditional transportation fuel retailers such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants are in the retail transportation fuels business. these non-traditional transportation fuels retailers have obtained a significant share of the transportation fuels market and we expect their market share to grow. because of their diversity, integration of operations, experienced management and significant financial resources, these companies may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions or levels of low or no profitability in the retail segment of the market. in addition, these retailers may use promotional pricing or discounts, both at the pump and in the store, to encourage in-store merchandise sales. these activities by our competitors could pressure us to offer similar discounts, adversely affecting our profit margins. additionally, the loss of market share by our convenience stores to these and other retailers relating to either transportation fuels or merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil and refined products. we utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil and refined products to and from our refineries. in addition to our own operational risks, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines, railways or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations or third-party actions. in particular, pipelines or railroads provide a nearly exclusive form of transportation of crude oil to, or refined products from, some of our refineries. a prolonged interruption, material reduction or cessation of service of such a pipeline or railway, whether due to private party or governmental action or other reason, or any other prolonged disruption of the ability of the trucks, pipelines, railways or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products to or from one or more of our refineries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 24 table of contents our investments in joint ventures decrease our ability to manage risk. we conduct some of our operations through joint ventures in which we share control over certain economic and business interests with our joint venture partners. our joint venture partners may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals and interests or may be unable to meet their obligations. failure by us, or an entity in which we have an interest, to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our joint ventures and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our inventory risk management activities may result in substantial derivative variability or losses. we enter into derivative transactions to manage the risks from changes in the prices of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and other feedstocks associated with our physical inventories and future production, and these transactions may result in substantial derivatives variability or losses, which could increase the volatility of our earnings. we manage price risk on inventories above or below our target levels to minimize the impact commodity price fluctuations have on our earnings and cash flows. consequently, our results may fluctuate significantly from one reporting period to the next depending on commodity price fluctuations and our relative physical inventory positions. these transactions may also expose us to the risk of financial loss. for example, if our production is less than we anticipated at the time we entered into a hedge agreement or if a counterparty to our hedge agreement fails to perform its obligations under its agreement, we may suffer a financial loss. we have significant debt obligations; therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed by a deterioration of our credit profile, a decrease in debt capacity or unsecured commercial credit available to us, or by factors adversely affecting credit markets generally. at december 31, 2019 , our total debt obligations for borrowed money and finance lease obligations were $29.28 billion , including $20.12 billion of obligations of mplx and its subsidiaries. we may incur substantial additional debt obligations in the future. our indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could have material adverse consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends and other purposes. a decrease in our debt or commercial credit capacity, including unsecured credit extended by third-party suppliers, or a deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit. our credit rating is determined by independent credit rating agencies. we cannot provide assurance that any of our credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances so warrant. on november 1, 2019, moody's announced it had changed its outlook for mpc's and mplx's credit ratings from stable to negative following the announcement of the planned speedway spinoff and midstream review. the planned speedway spinoff and midstream review could be factors causing or contributing to a future determination by one or more of the rating agencies to lower mpc's or mplx's credit rating. any changes in our credit capacity or credit profile could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have a trade receivables securitization facility that provides liquidity of up to $750 million depending on the amount of eligible domestic trade accounts receivables. in periods of lower prices, we may not have sufficient eligible accounts receivables to support full availability of this facility. 25 table of contents uncertainty relating to the calculation of libor and other reference rates and their potential discontinuance may adversely affect interest expense related to our outstanding debt. national and international regulators and law enforcement agencies have conducted investigations into a number of rates or indices, which are deemed to be reference rates. actions by such regulators and law enforcement agencies may result in changes to the manner in which certain reference rates are determined, their discontinuance or the establishment of alternative reference rates. in particular, it appears highly likely that libor will be discontinued or modified by the end of 2021. at this time, it is not possible to predict the effect that these developments, any discontinuance, modification or other reforms to libor or any other reference rate, or the establishment of alternative reference rates, may have on libor, other benchmarks or floating rate indebtedness. uncertainty as to the nature of such potential discontinuance, modification, alternative reference rates or other reforms may materially adversely affect the trading market for securities linked to such benchmarks. furthermore, the use of alternative reference rates or other reforms could cause the market value of, the applicable interest rate on and the amount of interest paid on our floating rate indebtedness to be materially different than expected and could materially adversely impact our ability to refinance such floating rate indebtedness or raise future indebtedness on a cost effective basis. historic or current operations could subject us to significant legal liability or restrict our ability to operate. we currently are defending litigation and anticipate we will be required to defend new litigation in the future. our operations, including those of mplx, and those of our predecessors could expose us to litigation and civil claims by private plaintiffs for alleged damages related to contamination of the environment or personal injuries caused by releases of hazardous substances from our facilities, products liability, consumer credit or privacy laws, product pricing or antitrust laws or any other laws or regulations that apply to our operations. while an adverse outcome in most litigation matters would not be expected to be material to us, in class-action litigation, large classes of plaintiffs may allege damages relating to extended periods of time or other alleged facts and circumstances that could increase the amount of potential damages. attorneys general and other government officials may pursue litigation in which they seek to recover civil damages from companies on behalf of a state or its citizens for a variety of claims, including violation of consumer protection and product pricing laws or natural resources damages. we are defending litigation of that type and anticipate that we will be required to defend new litigation of that type in the future. if we are not able to successfully defend such litigation, it may result in liability to our company that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition to substantial liability, plaintiffs in litigation may also seek injunctive relief which, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a portion of our workforce is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. approximately 4,650 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. of these employees, approximately 190 employees at our st. paul park refinery are covered by a collective bargaining agreement scheduled to expire on december 31, 2020. approximately 280 employees at our el paso refinery are covered by a collective bargaining agreement scheduled to expire in april 2021. approximately 3,425 employees at our anacortes, canton, catlettsburg, galveston bay, los angeles, mandan, martinez and salt lake city refineries are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are due to expire in early 2022. the remaining 750 hourly represented employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with expiration dates ranging from 2021 to 2024. these contracts may be renewed at an increased cost to us. in addition, we have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, work stoppages as a result of labor disagreements. any prolonged work stoppages disrupting operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, california requires refinery owners to pay prevailing wages to contract craft workers and restricts refiners' ability to hire qualified employees to a limited pool of applicants. legislation or changes in regulations could result in labor shortages, higher labor costs, and an increased risk that contract employees become joint employees, which could trigger bargaining issues, employment discrimination liability issues as well as wage and benefit consequences, especially during critical maintenance and construction periods. 26 table of contents one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a master limited partnership, which may involve a greater exposure to certain legal liabilities than existed under our historic business operations. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of mplx, a master limited partnership. our control of the general partner of mplx may increase the possibility of claims of breach of fiduciary duties, including claims of conflicts of interest. any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if foreign investment in us or mplx exceeds certain levels, mplx could be prohibited from operating inland river vessels, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the shipping act of 1916 and merchant marine act of 1920 (collectively, the maritime laws ), generally require that vessels engaged in u.s. coastwise trade be owned by u.s. citizens. among other requirements to establish citizenship, entities that own such vessels must be owned at least 75 percent by u.s. citizens. if we fail to maintain compliance with the maritime laws, mplx would be prohibited from operating vessels in the u.s. inland waters. such a prohibition could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to certain continuing contingent liabilities of marathon oil pursuant to agreements we entered into in connection with our spinoff from marathon oil, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. although our spinoff from marathon oil occurred in mid-2011, certain liabilities of marathon oil could become our obligations. for example, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with marathon oil that includes provisions governing the relationship between our company and marathon oil following our spinoff. among other things, the separation and distribution agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our downstream business activities, whether incurred prior to or after our spinoff, as well as certain obligations of marathon oil assumed by us. our obligations to indemnify marathon oil under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement could subject us to substantial liabilities. marathon oil also agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. however, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities retained by marathon oil, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from marathon oil will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, that marathon oil will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations or that marathon oil's insurers will cover us for liabilities associated with occurrences prior to our spinoff. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from marathon oil or its insurers any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. such liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. a significant decrease in oil and natural gas production in mplx's areas of operation, whether due to sustained declines in oil, natural gas and ngl prices, natural declines in well production, or otherwise, may adversely affect mplx's business, results of operations and financial condition, and could reduce its ability to make distributions to us. a significant portion of mplx's operations are dependent on the continued availability of natural gas and crude oil production. the production from oil and natural gas reserves and wells owned by its producer customers will naturally decline over time, which means that mplx's cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. to maintain or increase throughput levels and the utilization rate of mplx's facilities, mplx must continually obtain new oil, natural gas, ngl and refined product supplies, which depend in part on the level of successful drilling activity near its facilities, its ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells and its ability to expand its system capacity as needed. we have no control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of mplx's operations, the amount of reserves associated with the wells or the rate at which production from a well will decline. in addition, we have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, drilling costs per mcf or barrel, demand for hydrocarbons, operational challenges, access to downstream markets, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations and the availability and cost of capital. because of these factors, even if oil or natural gas reserves are known to exist in areas served by mplx assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. reductions in 27 table of contents exploration or production activity in mplx's areas of operations could lead to reduced throughput on its pipelines and utilization rates of its facilities. decreases in energy prices can decrease drilling activity, production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. the prices for oil, natural gas and ngls depend upon factors beyond our control, including global and local demand, production levels, changes in interstate pipeline gas quality specifications, imports and exports, seasonality and weather conditions, economic and political conditions domestically and internationally and governmental regulations. sustained periods of low prices could result in producers also significantly curtailing or limiting their oil and gas drilling operations which could substantially delay the production and delivery of volumes of oil, natural gas and ngls to mplx's facilities and adversely affect their revenues and cash available for distribution to us. this impact may also be exacerbated due to the extent of mplx's commodity-based contracts, which are more directly impacted by changes in natural gas and ngl prices than its fee-based contracts due to frac spread exposure and may result in operating losses when natural gas becomes more expensive on a btu equivalent basis than ngl products. in addition, the purchase and resale of natural gas and ngls in the ordinary course exposes our midstream operations to volatility in natural gas or ngl prices due to the potential difference in the time of the purchases and sales and the potential difference in the price associated with each transaction, and direct exposure may also occur naturally as a result of production processes. also, the significant volatility in natural gas, ngl and oil prices could adversely impact mplx's unit price, thereby increasing its distribution yield and cost of capital. such impacts could adversely impact mplx's ability to execute its long term organic growth projects, satisfy obligations to its customers and make distributions to unitholders at intended levels, and may also result in non-cash impairments of long-lived assets or goodwill or other-than-temporary non-cash impairments of our equity method investments. significant stockholders may attempt to effect changes at our company or acquire control over our company, which could impact the pursuit of business strategies and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our stockholders may from time to time engage in proxy solicitations, advance stockholder proposals or otherwise attempt to effect changes or acquire control over our company. campaigns by stockholders to effect changes at publicly traded companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase short-term stockholder value through actions such as financial restructuring, increased debt, special dividends, stock repurchases or sales of assets or the entire company. responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our board of directors and senior management from the management of our operations and the pursuit of our business strategies. as a result, stockholder campaigns could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our operations could be disrupted if we are unable to maintain or obtain real property rights required for our business. we do not own all of the land on which certain of our assets are located, particularly our midstream assets, but rather obtain the rights to construct and operate such assets on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. therefore, we are subject to the possibility of more burdensome terms and increased costs to retain necessary land use if our leases, rights-of-way or other property rights lapse, terminate or are reduced or it is determined that we do not have valid leases, rights-of-way or other property rights. any loss of or reduction in these rights, including loss or reduction due to legal, governmental or other actions or difficulty renewing leases, right-of-way agreements or permits on satisfactory terms or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. certain of our facilities are located on native american tribal lands and are subject to various federal and tribal approvals and regulations, which may increase our costs and delay or prevent our efforts to conduct planned operations. various federal agencies within the u.s. department of the interior, particularly the bureau of indian affairs, bureau of land management, and the office of natural resources revenue, along with each native american tribe, regulate natural gas and oil operations on native american tribal lands, including drilling and production requirements and environmental standards. in addition, each native american tribe is a sovereign nation having the right to enforce laws and regulations and to grant approvals independent from federal, state and local statutes and regulations. these tribal laws and regulations include various taxes, fees, requirements to employ native american tribal members and other conditions that apply to operators and contractors 28 table of contents conducting operations on native american tribal lands. persons conducting operations on tribal lands are generally subject to the native american tribal court system. in addition, if our relationships with any of the relevant native american tribes were to deteriorate, we could face significant risks to our ability to continue operations on native american tribal lands. one or more of these factors may increase our cost of doing business on native american tribal lands and impact the viability of, or prevent or delay our ability to conduct operations on such lands. risks relating to strategic transactions our proposed spinoff of speedway may not be completed on the currently contemplated timeline or at all and may not achieve the intended benefits. on october 31, 2019, we announced our intention to separate speedway into an independent, publicly traded company by the end of 2020. this transaction is subject to certain conditions, including final approval by our board of directors, receipt of customary assurances regarding the intended tax-free nature of the transaction and the filing and effectiveness of a registration statement with the sec. unanticipated developments, including possible delays in obtaining various regulatory approvals or clearances, uncertainty of the financial markets and challenges in establishing infrastructure or processes, could delay or prevent the proposed spinoff or cause the proposed spinoff to occur on terms or conditions that are less favorable or different than expected. even if the spinoff is completed, we may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits from the spinoff. expenses incurred to accomplish the proposed spinoff may be significantly higher than what we currently anticipate. executing the proposed spinoff also requires significant time and attention from management, which could distract them from other tasks in operating our business. following the proposed spinoff, the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly traded companies may not be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock would have been had the proposed spinoff not occurred. if the proposed speedway spinoff is completed, our diversification of revenue sources will diminish due to the separation of the speedway business, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be subject to increased volatility as a result. if the proposed spinoff of speedway were to fail to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, mpc and mpc shareholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities. the speedway spinoff is subject to the receipt of customary assurances regarding the intended tax-free nature of the transactions for u.s. federal income tax purposes. notwithstanding receipt of an internal revenue service ( irs ) private letter ruling and/or the opinion(s) of tax advisors, the irs could determine that the distribution and/or certain related transactions should be treated as taxable transactions for u.s. federal income tax purposes if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions, or undertakings upon which the irs private letter ruling or the opinion(s) of tax advisors were based are inaccurate or have not been complied with. in addition, an irs private letter ruling would not address all of the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution, together with certain related transactions, qualifies as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the opinion(s) of tax advisors represent the judgment of such tax advisors and are not binding on the irs or any court, and the irs or a court may disagree with the conclusions in the opinion(s) of tax advisors. accordingly, notwithstanding receipt by mpc of an irs private letter ruling and/or the opinion(s) of tax advisors, there can be no assurance that the irs will not assert that the distribution and/or certain related transactions do not qualify for tax-free treatment for u.s. federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. in the event the irs were to prevail with such challenge, speedway, as well as mpc and mpc shareholders, could be subject to significant u.s. federal income tax liability. if the distribution were to fail to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code (the code ), in general, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, mpc would recognize taxable gain as if it had sold the speedway common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and mpc shareholders who receive speedway common stock in the distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. even if the distribution were to otherwise qualify as a tax-free transaction under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code, it may result in taxable gain to mpc (but not its shareholders) under section 355(e) of the code if the distribution were deemed to be part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which one or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, shares representing a 50 percent or greater interest (by vote or value) in mpc or speedway. for this purpose, any acquisitions of mpc or speedway 29 table of contents shares within the period beginning two years before the distribution and ending two years after the distribution are presumed to be part of such a plan, although mpc or speedway may be able to rebut that presumption (including by qualifying for one or more safe harbors under applicable treasury regulations). if the irs were to determine that acquisitions of mpc or speedway stock, either before or after the distribution, were part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the distribution, such determination could result in significant tax liabilities to mpc. our ongoing review of other strategic alternatives for our midstream business may pose additional risks to our business. our board of directors has formed a special committee to evaluate strategies to enhance shareholder value through a review of our midstream business, which we primarily conduct through mplx. our exploration of strategic alternatives, including any uncertainty created by this process, involves a number of risks: significant fluctuations in our stock price could occur in response to developments relating to the strategic review process or market speculation regarding any such developments; we may encounter difficulties in hiring, retaining and motivating key personnel during this process or as a result of uncertainties generated by this process or any developments or actions relating to it; we may incur substantial increases in general and administrative expense associated with increased legal fees and the need to retain and compensate third-party advisors; and we may experience difficulties in preserving the commercially sensitive information that may need to be disclosed to third parties during this process or in connection with an assessment of our strategic alternatives. the strategic review process also requires significant time and attention from management, which could distract them from other tasks in operating our business. there can be no assurance that this process will result in the pursuit or consummation of any strategic transaction. the occurrence of any one or more of the above risks could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. significant acquisitions, if any, in the future will involve the integration of new assets or businesses and present substantial risks that could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. any significant future transactions involving the addition of new assets or businesses will present potential risks, which may include, among others: inaccurate assumptions about future synergies, revenues, capital expenditures and operating costs; an inability to successfully integrate assets or businesses we acquire; a decrease in our liquidity resulting from using a portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity under our revolving credit agreement to finance transactions; a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance transactions; the assumption of unknown environmental and other liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and the incurrence of other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. 30 table of contents risks relating to the andeavor acquisition the andeavor acquisition may not be accretive, and may be dilutive, to mpc's earnings per share and cash flow from operations per share, which may negatively affect the market price of shares of mpc common stock. the andeavor acquisition may not be accretive, and may be dilutive, to mpc's earnings per share and cash flow from operations per share. earnings per share and cash flow from operations per share in the future are based on preliminary estimates that may materially change. in addition, future events and conditions could decrease or delay any accretion, result in dilution or cause greater dilution than is currently expected. any dilution of, or decrease or delay of any accretion to, mpc's earnings per share or cash flow from operations per share could cause the price of mpc's common stock to decline. mpc has incurred and will continue to incur significant costs in connection with the andeavor acquisition, which may be in excess of those anticipated by mpc. mpc has incurred substantial expenses in connection with the andeavor acquisition. mpc expects to continue to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with combining the operations of the two companies and achieving desired synergies. these fees and costs have been, and may continue to be, substantial. additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the two companies' businesses. the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, may not be sufficient to allow mpc to offset integration-related costs over time. these integration costs, as well as other unanticipated costs and expenses, could materially and adversely affect mpc's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. mpc's results may suffer if it does not effectively manage its expanded operations following the andeavor acquisition. mpc's success depends, in part, on its ability to manage its expansion following the andeavor acquisition, which poses numerous risks and uncertainties, including the need to integrate the operations and business of andeavor into its existing business in an efficient and timely manner, to combine systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with customers, vendors and business partners. mpc may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the andeavor acquisition. the success of the andeavor acquisition depends, in part, on mpc's ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining mpc's and andeavor's businesses, including the annual gross, run-rate, commercial and corporate synergies that mpc expects to realize within the first three years after the combination. the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the andeavor acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, may take longer to realize than expected, may require more non-recurring costs and expenditures to realize than expected or could have other adverse effects. there could be potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen expenses associated with the andeavor acquisition that were not discovered in the course of performing due diligence. we have recorded goodwill and other intangible assets that could become further impaired and result in material non-cash charges to our results of operations. we accounted for the andeavor and other acquisitions using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires that the assets and liabilities of the acquired business be recorded to our balance sheet at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. any excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the acquired net assets is recognized as goodwill. as of december 31, 2019 , our balance sheet reflected $20.0 billion and $3.0 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets, respectively. these amounts include goodwill and other intangible assets of $17.3 billion and $2.8 billion , respectively, recognized in connection with the andeavor acquisition. as a part of our annual impairment review for goodwill, mplx recorded approximately $1.2 billion of impairment expense in the fourth quarter of 2019. to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets becomes further impaired, we may be required to incur additional material non-cash charges relating to such impairment. our operating results may be significantly impacted from both the impairment and the underlying trends in the business that triggered the impairment. 31 table of contents risks relating to our industry meeting the requirements of evolving environmental or other laws or regulations may reduce our refining and marketing margin and may result in substantial capital expenditures and operating costs that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. various laws and regulations are expected to impose increasingly stringent and costly requirements on our operations, which may reduce our refining and marketing margin. laws and regulations expected to become more stringent relate to the following: the emission or discharge of materials into the environment, solid and hazardous waste management, the regulatory classification of materials presently used in our business, pollution prevention, greenhouse gas emissions, climate change, characteristics and composition of transportation fuels, including the quantity of renewable fuels that must be blended into transportation fuels, public and employee safety and health, inherently safer technology, and facility security. the specific impact of laws and regulations on us and our competitors may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of operating facilities, marketing areas, crude oil and feedstock sources, production processes and subsequent judicial interpretation of such laws and regulations. as a result of these laws and regulations, we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures to modify operations, install pollution control equipment, perform site cleanups or curtail operations. such expenditures could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for additional information on environmental laws and regulations that may affect us, see item 1. business - environmental matters above. federal, state and local legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could delay or impede producer's gas production or result in reduced volumes available for our midstream assets to gather, process and fractionate. while we do not conduct hydraulic fracturing operations, we do provide gathering, processing and fractionation services with respect to natural gas and natural gas liquids produced by our customers as a result of such operations. if federal, state or local laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such legal requirements could make it more difficult to complete natural gas wells in shale formations and increase producers' costs of compliance. climate change and greenhouse gas emission regulation could affect our operations, energy consumption patterns and regulatory obligations, any of which could affect our results of operations and financial condition. currently, multiple legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) and other emissions are in various phases of consideration, promulgation or implementation. these include actions to develop international, federal, regional or statewide programs, which could require reductions in our greenhouse gas or other emissions, establish a carbon tax and decrease the demand for our refined products. requiring reductions in these emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments. for example, in 2017, the california state legislature adopted ab 398, which provides direction and parameters on utilizing cap and trade after 2020 to meet the 40% reduction target from 1990 levels by 2030 specified in sb 32. compliance with the cap and trade program is demonstrated through a market-based credit system. additionally, the carb is now exploring the potential for additional greenhouse gas reductions by 2045 via a yet undefined carbon neutrality standard. other states are proposing, or have already promulgated, low 32 table of contents carbon fuel standards or similar initiatives to reduce emissions from the transportation sector. if we are unable to pass the costs of compliance on to our customers, sufficient credits are unavailable for purchase, we have to pay a significantly higher price for credits, or if we are otherwise unable to meet our compliance obligation, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. regional and state climate change and air emissions goals and regulatory programs are complex, subject to change and considerable uncertainty due to a number of factors including technological feasibility, legal challenges and potential changes in federal policy. increasing concerns about climate change and carbon intensity have also resulted in societal concerns and a number of international and national measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions. additional stricter measures and investor pressure can be expected in the future and any of these changes may have a material adverse impact on our business or financial condition. international climate change-related efforts, such as the 2015 united nations conference on climate change, which led to the creation of the paris agreement, may impact the regulatory framework of states whose policies directly influence our present and future operations. though the united states has announced its intention to withdraw from the paris agreement, u.s. climate change strategy and implementation of that strategy through legislation and regulation may change under future administrations; therefore, the impact to our industry and operations due to greenhouse gas regulation is unknown at this time. we could also face increased climate related litigation with respect to our operations or products. governmental and other entities in california, new york, maryland and rhode island have filed lawsuits against coal, gas, oil and petroleum companies, including the company. the lawsuits allege damages as a result of climate change and the plaintiffs are seeking unspecified damages and abatement under various tort theories. similar lawsuits may be filed in other jurisdictions. there remains a high degree of uncertainty regarding the ultimate outcome of these lawsuits, as well as their potential effect on the company's business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. regulatory and other requirements concerning the transportation of crude oil and other commodities by rail may cause increases in transportation costs or limit the amount of crude oil that we can transport by rail. we rely on a variety of systems to transport crude oil, including rail. rail transportation is regulated by federal, state and local authorities. new regulations or changes in existing regulations could result in increased compliance expenditures. for example, in 2015, the u.s. department of transportation issued new standards and regulations applicable to crude-by-rail transportation (enhanced tank car standards and operational controls for high-hazard flammable trains). these or other regulations that require the reduction of volatile or flammable constituents in crude oil that is transported by rail, change the design or standards for rail cars used to transport the crude oil we purchase, change the routing or scheduling of trains carrying crude oil, or require any other changes that detrimentally affect the economics of delivering north american crude oil by rail could increase the time required to move crude oil from production areas to our refineries, increase the cost of rail transportation and decrease the efficiency of shipments of crude oil by rail within our operations. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. severe weather events and other climate conditions may adversely affect our facilities and ongoing operations. we have mature systems in place to manage potential acute physical risks, such as floods, hurricane-force winds, wildfires and snowstorms, and potential chronic physical risks, such as higher ocean levels. if any such events were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. specifically, where appropriate, we are hardening and modernizing assets against weather damage and ensuring we have resiliency measures in place, such as storm-specific readiness plans. we have incurred and will continue to incur additional costs to protect our assets and operations from such physical risks and employ the evolving technologies and processes available to mitigate such risks. to the extent such severe weather events or other climate conditions increase in frequency and severity, we may be required to modify operations and incur costs that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 33 table of contents plans we may have to expand existing assets or construct new assets are subject to risks associated with societal and political pressures and other forms of opposition to the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels. such risks could adversely impact our business and ability to realize certain growth strategies. our anticipated growth and planned expenditures are based upon the assumption that societal sentiment will continue to enable and existing regulations will remain intact to allow for the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels. a portion of our growth strategy is dependent on our ability to expand existing assets and to construct additional assets. however, policy decisions relating to the production, refining, transportation and marketing of carbon-based fuels are subject to political pressures and the influence and protests of environmental and other special interest groups. one of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new pipelines or the expansion of existing ones. the construction of a new pipeline or the expansion of an existing pipeline, by adding horsepower or pump stations or by adding additional pipelines along existing pipelines, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control. the approval process for storage and transportation projects has become increasingly challenging, due in part to state and local concerns related to pipelines, negative public perception regarding the oil and gas industry, and concerns regarding greenhouse gas emissions downstream of pipeline operations. in addition, government disruptions, such as a u.s. federal government shutdown, may delay or halt the granting and renewal of permits, licenses and other items required by us and our customers to conduct our business. our expansion or construction projects may not be completed on schedule (or at all) or at the budgeted cost. in addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we build a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities (including improvements and repairs to our existing facilities) could adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results, thereby limiting our ability to grow and generate cash flows. large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting project returns. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we produce. such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: denial of or delay in receiving requisite regulatory approvals or permits; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of components or construction materials; adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors or suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or subcontractors. any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our ongoing capital projects. if we were unable to make up the delays associated with such factors or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 34 table of contents the availability of crude oil and increases in crude oil prices may reduce profitability and refining and marketing margins. the profitability of our operations depends largely on the difference between the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks we refine and the selling prices we obtain for refined products. a portion of our crude oil is purchased from various foreign national oil companies, production companies and trading companies, including suppliers from canada, the middle east and various other international locations. the market for crude oil and other feedstocks is largely a world market. we are, therefore, subject to the attendant political, geographic and economic risks of such a market. if one or more major supply sources were temporarily or permanently eliminated, we believe adequate alternative supplies of crude oil would be available, but it is possible we would be unable to find alternative sources of supply. if we are unable to obtain adequate crude oil volumes or are able to obtain such volumes only at unfavorable prices, our operations, sales of refined products and refining and marketing margins could be adversely affected, materially and adversely impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to risks arising from our non-u.s. operations and generally to worldwide political and economic developments. we operate and sell some of our products in non-u.s. jurisdictions, particularly in mexico, south america and asia. our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted by disruptions in any of these markets, including economic instability, restrictions on the transfer of funds, duties and tariffs, transportation delays, difficulty in enforcing contractual provisions, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest, security issues involving key personnel and changing regulatory and political environments. global outbreaks of infectious diseases, such as the coronavirus first detected in wuhan, china, could affect demand for refined products and economic conditions generally. in addition, if trade relationships deteriorate with these countries, if existing trade agreements are modified or terminated, new economic sanctions relevant to such jurisdictions are passed or if taxes, border adjustments or tariffs make trading with these countries more costly, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are required to comply with u.s. and international laws and regulations, including those involving anti-bribery, anti-corruption and anti-money laundering. for example, the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws and regulations prohibit improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or gaining any business advantage. our compliance policies and programs mandate compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws but may not be completely effective in ensuring our compliance. our training and compliance program and our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from violations committed by our employees or agents. actual or alleged violations of these laws could disrupt our business and cause us to incur significant legal expenses, and could result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. more broadly, political and economic factors in global markets could impact crude oil and other feedstock supplies and could have a material adverse effect on us in other ways. hostilities in the middle east or the occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economies of the u.s. and other developed countries. a lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could cause our revenues and margins to decline and limit our future growth prospects. these risks could lead to increased volatility in prices for refined products, ngls and natural gas. additionally, these risks could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult or costly for us to access capital and to obtain the insurance coverage that we consider adequate. additionally, tax policy, legislative or regulatory action and commercial restrictions could reduce our operating profitability. for example, the u.s. government could prevent or restrict exports of refined products, ngls, natural gas or the conduct of business in or with certain foreign countries. in addition, foreign countries could restrict imports, investments or commercial transactions. 35 table of contents compliance with and changes in tax laws could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal and state income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales and use, payroll, franchise, withholding and property taxes. new tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations could result in increased expenditures by us for tax liabilities in the future and could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, many tax liabilities are subject to periodic audits by taxing authorities, and such audits could subject us to interest and penalties. terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities or that impact our customers or the markets we serve could adversely affect our business. the u.s. government has issued warnings that energy assets in general, including the nation's refining, pipeline and terminal infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. the threat of terrorist attacks has subjected our operations to increased risks. any future terrorist attacks on our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. similarly, any future terrorist attacks that severely disrupt the markets we serve could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. risks relating to ownership of our common stock provisions in our corporate governance documents could operate to delay or prevent a change in control of our company, dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our capital stock or affect its liquidity. the existence of some provisions within our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us that a stockholder may consider favorable. these include provisions: providing that our board of directors fixes the number of members of the board; providing for the division of our board of directors into three classes with staggered terms; providing that only our board of directors may fill board vacancies; limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring stockholder action to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; establishing supermajority vote requirements for certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation; providing that our directors may only be removed for cause; authorizing a large number of shares of common stock that are not yet issued, which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of our management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us; and authorizing the issuance of blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt. we believe certain of these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors time to assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. however, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition. 36 table of contents our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. the terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. for example, we could grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our board of directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock. finally, to facilitate compliance with the maritime laws, our restated certificate of incorporation limits the aggregate percentage ownership by non-u.s. citizens of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock to 23 percent of the outstanding shares. we may prohibit transfers that would cause ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock by non-u.s. citizens to exceed 23 percent. our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to effect any and all measures necessary or desirable to monitor and limit foreign ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock. these limitations could have an adverse impact on the liquidity of the market for our common stock if holders are unable to transfer shares to non-u.s. citizens due to the limitations on ownership by non-u.s. citizens. any such limitation on the liquidity of the market for our common stock could adversely impact the market price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 85 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, includes forward-looking statements that are subject to risks, contingencies or uncertainties. you can identify forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, believe, commitment, could, design, estimate, expect, forecast, goal, guidance, imply, intend, may, objective, opportunity, outlook, plan, policy, position, potential, predict, priority, project, proposition, prospective, pursue, seek, should, strategy, target, will, would or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding: future levels of revenues, refining and marketing margins, operating costs, retail gasoline and distillate margins, merchandise margins, income from operations, net income or earnings per share; future levels of capital, environmental or maintenance expenditures, general and administrative and other expenses; the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital or maintenance projects; business strategies, growth opportunities and expected investment; consumer demand for refined products, natural gas and ngls; the timing and amount of any future common stock repurchases; and the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, activist investors or federal, foreign, state or local regulatory authorities or plaintiffs in litigation. our forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and you should not rely unduly on them, as they involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we cannot predict. material differences between actual results and any future performance suggested in our forward-looking statements could result from a variety of factors, including the following: our ability to successfully complete the planned speedway separation within the expected timeframe or at all; our ability to achieve the strategic and other objectives related to our midstream review; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the andeavor transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; risks relating to any unforeseen liabilities of andeavor; further impairments; risks related to the acquisition of andeavor logistics lp ( andx ) by mplx lp ( mplx ); our ability to complete any divestitures on commercially reasonable terms and within the expected timeframe, and the effects of any such divestitures on the business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; the effect of restructuring or reorganization of business components; the regional, national and worldwide availability and pricing of refined products, crude oil, natural gas, ngls and other feedstocks; our ability to manage disruptions in credit markets or changes to credit ratings; the reliability of processing units and other equipment; the adequacy of capital resources and liquidity, including the availability of sufficient cash flow to execute business plans and to effect any share repurchases or dividend increases, including within the expected timeframe; the potential effects of judicial or other proceedings on the business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; continued or further volatility in and degradation of general economic, market, industry or business conditions; 2 table of contents compliance with federal and state environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, including the cost of compliance with the renewable fuel standard, and enforcement actions initiated thereunder; adverse market conditions or other similar risks affecting mplx; refining industry overcapacity or under capacity; changes in producer customers' drilling plans or in volumes of throughput of crude oil, natural gas, ngls, refined products or other hydrocarbon-based products; changes in the cost or availability of third-party vessels, pipelines, railcars and other means of transportation for crude oil, natural gas, ngls, feedstocks and refined products; the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels and alternative-fuel vehicles and laws mandating such fuels or vehicles; political and economic conditions in nations that consume refined products, natural gas and ngls, including the united states and mexico, and in crude oil producing regions, including the middle east, africa, canada and south america; actions taken by our competitors, including pricing adjustments, expansion of retail activities, the expansion and retirement of refining capacity and the expansion and retirement of pipeline capacity, processing, fractionation and treating facilities in response to market conditions; completion of pipeline projects within the united states; changes in fuel and utility costs for our facilities; accidents or other unscheduled shutdowns affecting our refineries, machinery, pipelines, processing, fractionation and treating facilities or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers; acts of war, terrorism or civil unrest that could impair our ability to produce refined products, receive feedstocks or to gather, process, fractionate or transport crude oil, natural gas, ngls or refined products; adverse changes in laws including with respect to tax and regulatory matters; political pressure and influence of environmental groups upon policies and decisions related to the production, gathering, refining, processing, fractionation, transportation and marketing of crude oil or other feedstocks, refined products, natural gas, ngls or other hydrocarbon-based products; labor and material shortages; the costs, disruption and diversion of management's attention associated with campaigns commenced by activist investors; and the other factors described in item 1a. risk factors. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements except to the extent required by applicable law. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business overview marathon petroleum corporation ( mpc ) has over 130 years of experience in the energy business, and is the largest independent petroleum product refining, marketing, retail and midstream business in the united states. we operate the nation's largest refining system with more than 3 million barrels per day of crude oil refining capacity and believe we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers in the united states. we believe we operate the second largest chain of company-owned and operated retail gasoline and convenience stores in the united states. we distribute our refined products through one of the largest terminal operations in the united states and one of the largest private domestic fleets of inland petroleum product barges. in addition, our integrated midstream energy asset network links producers of natural gas and ngls from some of the largest supply basins in the united states to domestic and international markets. our operations consist of three reportable operating segments: refining &amp; marketing, retail and midstream. each of these segments is organized and managed based upon the nature of the products and services it offers. refining &amp; marketing refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our 16 refineries in the gulf coast, mid-continent and west coast regions of the united states, purchases refined products and ethanol for resale and distributes refined products through transportation, storage, distribution and marketing services provided largely by our midstream segment. we sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, to buyers on the spot market, to our retail business segment and to independent entrepreneurs who operate primarily marathon branded outlets. retail sells transportation fuels and convenience products in the retail market across the united states through company-owned and operated convenience stores, primarily under the speedway brand, and long-term fuel supply contracts with direct dealers who operate locations mainly under the arco brand. midstream transports, stores, distributes and markets crude oil and refined products principally for the refining &amp; marketing segment via refining logistics assets, pipelines, terminals, towboats and barges; gathers, processes and transports natural gas; and gathers, transports, fractionates, stores and markets ngls. the midstream segment primarily reflects the results of mplx lp ( mplx ). mplx is a diversified, large-cap master limited partnership ( mlp ) formed in 2012 that owns and operates midstream energy infrastructure and logistics assets and provides fuels distribution services. as of december 31, 2019 , we owned the general partner and approximately 63 percent of the outstanding mplx common units. on october 1, 2018, we completed the andeavor acquisition. andeavor shareholders received in the aggregate approximately 239.8 million shares of mpc common stock valued at $19.8 billion and $3.5 billion in cash. andeavor was a highly integrated marketing, logistics and refining company operating primarily in the western and mid-continent united states. our acquisition of andeavor in 2018 substantially increased our geographic diversification and the scale of our assets, which provides increased opportunities to optimize our system. corporate history and structure mpc was incorporated in delaware on november 9, 2009 in connection with an internal restructuring of marathon oil corporation ( marathon oil ). on may 25, 2011, the marathon oil board of directors approved the spinoff of its refining, marketing &amp; transportation business into an independent, publicly traded company, mpc, through the distribution of mpc common stock to the stockholders of marathon oil on june 30, 2011. our common stock trades on the nyse under the ticker symbol mpc. 4 table of contents recent developments strategic actions to enhance shareholder value on october 31, 2019, we announced our intention to separate our retail transportation fuel and convenience store business, which is operated primarily under the speedway brand, into an independent, publicly traded company through a tax-free distribution to mpc shareholders of publicly traded stock in the new independent retail transportation fuel and convenience store company. this transaction is targeted to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2020, subject to market, regulatory and certain other conditions, including final approval by mpc's board of directors, receipt of customary assurances regarding the intended tax-free nature of the transaction, and the effectiveness of a registration statement to be filed with the sec. the speedway business is currently a reporting unit within our retail segment. mpc will retain its direct dealer business, which is also included in the retail segment as currently reported. mpc's board of directors also formed a special committee to evaluate strategies to enhance shareholder value through a review of the midstream business and to analyze, among other things, the strategic fit of assets with mpc, the ability to realize full valuation credit for midstream earnings and cash flow, balance sheet impacts including liquidity and credit ratings, transaction tax impacts, separation costs, and overall complexity. mplx acquisition of andx on july 30, 2019, mplx completed its acquisition of andeavor logistics lp ( andx ), and andx survived as a wholly-owned subsidiary of mplx. at the effective time of the merger, each common unit held by andx's public unitholders was converted into the right to receive 1.135 mplx common units. andx common units held by certain affiliates of mpc were converted into the right to receive 1.0328 mplx common units. additionally, 600,000 andx preferred units were converted into 600,000 preferred units of mplx (the series b preferred units ). series b preferred unitholders are entitled to receive, when and if declared by the mplx board, a fixed distribution of $68.75 per unit, per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on february 15 and august 15, or the first business day thereafter, up to and including february 15, 2023. after february 15, 2023, the holders of series b preferred units are entitled to receive cumulative, quarterly distributions payable in arrears on the 15th day of february, may, august and november of each year, or the first business day thereafter, based on a floating annual rate equal to the three month libor plus 4.652 percent. the transaction simplified our two sponsored mlps, mplx and andx, into a single listed entity to create a leading, large-scale, diversified midstream company anchored by fee-based cash flows. the combined entity has an expanded geographic footprint that is expected to enhance its long-term growth opportunities and the sustainable cash flow profile of the business. our vision, values and business strategies we are committed to creating a valued, dynamic energy company that enhances life's possibilities. underpinning this vision are our core values of integrity, respect, inclusion, collaboration, and safety and environmental stewardship. our business strategy is based on five strategic pillars designed to define how we create value through competitive advantages: superior execution, integrated value chain, growth through innovation, strong financial discipline and sustainability. these strategic pillars are supported by our commitment to maintaining a high-performing culture and workforce. we continuously strive to enhance our workforce through active recruitment of the best candidates, including those from diverse backgrounds. we develop our high quality workforce through coaching, mentoring and the delivery of robust training programs focused on leadership, commercial skills, safety, environmental stewardship, diversity and inclusion and other professional and technical skills. we describe our strategic pillars more fully below. superior execution we are committed to superior execution in everything we do across our organization. our refining &amp; marketing segment focuses on maintaining and enhancing the reliability and availability of our refining assets, while improving our overall cost structure. actions to improve our refining cost structure include reducing turnaround costs, improving energy efficiency, and driving operational improvements across our 16 refineries. our midstream segment concentrates on achieving operational excellence by operating its assets safely and efficiently, while capturing synergies across our various systems. 5 table of contents our retail segment is expanding existing technology and utilizing data analytics to support and embrace consumer convenience trends, while improving profitability through operational excellence. integrated value chain we believe the scale of our operations distinguishes us from our competitors. our nationwide footprint enables connectivity to key supply sources and demand hubs. we have access to advantaged feedstocks and our logistics system lowers crude acquisition costs, increases optionality, and increases our speed to market. our broad market presence creates superior product placement options and our nationwide marketing channels create significant optimization opportunities. our substantial refining capacity and dock infrastructure on the west coast and gulf coast and our marine assets, uniquely position us to provide reliable supply while allowing for international product placement and marine transportation cost optimization. growth through innovation we intend to leverage technology to enhance margins system wide and develop new opportunities for industry leading solutions. in the refining &amp; marketing segment, we are focused on increasing upgrading capability at our refineries to provide yield flexibility and conversion capacity. we continue investing in high return capital projects that increase export capacity, resid destruction and diesel production. we also leverage technology and the expertise of our employees and business partners to optimize catalyst formulations and other refining processes to produce higher valued products. in our midstream segment, we are alleviating in-basin bottlenecks and connecting supply to global demand markets through investments in our marine fleet, export opportunities and long-haul crude oil, natural gas and ngl pipelines. we continue our efforts to leverage existing assets for incremental third-party business. we also prioritize our growth in strategic basins, such as the permian and marcellus. in our retail segment, we are focused on high value growth opportunities, utilizing superior technology, capturing key market opportunities, and leveraging our buying power. our plans include the continued conversion of acquired locations to the speedway brand and systems, growth in existing and new markets, dealer sites, commercial diesel fueling expansion, food service through store remodels and high quality acquisitions. strong financial discipline we are committed to maintaining an investment grade credit profile and providing through business cycle financial flexibility and protection. we employ a disciplined and balanced approach to capital allocation, including a focus on only the highest returning capital projects in our respective business segments. in our midstream segment, mplx is targeting positive free cash flow, after capital investments and distributions, in 2021. achieving this would allow mplx to fund both its distribution and capital program entirely from internally generated cash flow. since becoming a stand-alone company in june 2011, our dividend has increased by a 23 percent compound annual growth rate and our board of directors has authorized share repurchases totaling $18.0 billion . through open market purchases and two asr programs, we have repurchased 327 million shares of our common stock for approximately $15.0 billion , representing approximately 46 percent of our outstanding common shares when we became a stand-alone company in june 2011. we achieved these shareholder returns while meaningfully investing in the business and maintaining an investment-grade credit profile. as of december 31, 2019 , $3.0 billion of authorization remains available for future share repurchases. sustainability we view sustainability as our environmental, social and economic responsibility. we believe that sustainability is a fundamental process of shared value creation, in which strategic investment and innovation help our society achieve economic growth, environmental preservation and resource conservation. this shared value helps ensure the social and economic needs of future generations are met. our operations, assets and processes require specialized knowledge, advanced operating procedures and a commitment to excellence to ensure safety and maximize environmental stewardship. our approach to sustainability is defined by not only the work we do to conform and comply with all laws and regulations, but also by our drive to meet or exceed our own rigorous environmental and safety targets. 6 table of contents we are committed to investing in sustainable solutions for energy demand by increasing our renewable diesel production and minimizing carbon intensity. we are in the process of converting our dickinson refinery into an approximately 180 million gallon per year renewable diesel facility by the end of 2020. in 2019, the epa recognized marathon petroleum corporation as an energy star partner of the year for the second year, the only oil and gas company to receive such honor. this award recognized the significant energy efficiency gains achieved since we established our focus on energy program at our refineries nearly a decade ago. through the implementation of this program, we have earned approximately two-thirds of the total energy star certifications awarded to the u.s. refining sector since 2006. overall, we have realized considerable savings in energy costs and our energy efficiency efforts have enabled us to significantly lower our greenhouse gas intensity. we remain committed to operating our assets in a safe and reliable manner and targeting continual improvement in our safety and environmental record across our operations through the use of a rigorous, independently audited management system, rc14001 :2015. this management system integrates health, environmental stewardship, safety and security to ensure compliance and continual improvement. six of our 16 refineries and our marathon pipe line, terminals and transport and rail organizations maintain rc14001 certification. additionally, our marine organization maintains management system certification through the american waterways operators responsible carrier program. we are continuing to align our recently acquired assets with our internal management system requirements. we proactively address our regulatory requirements and encourage our operations to continually improve their environmental performance through our dei program, which establishes goals and measures performance. dei is a metric adopted by mpc to capture several categories simultaneously. it includes three categories of environmental incidents: releases to the environment (air, land or water), environmental permit exceedances and agency enforcement actions. we rank deis in terms of their severity, with tier 4 being the most severe, and tier 1 being the least. we continually strive for improvements in our environmental performance. in 2019, we fully implemented the dei program across all of the assets we acquired from andeavor in october 2018. as a result of implementing the program, we achieved a 37 percent reduction in tier 3 and tier 4 deis from our 2018 baseline. our operations our operations consist of three reportable operating segments: refining &amp; marketing, retail and midstream. refining &amp; marketing refineries we currently own and operate 16 refineries in the gulf coast, mid-continent and west coast regions of the united states with an aggregate crude oil refining capacity of 3,067 mbpcd. during 2019 , our refineries processed 2,902 mbpd of crude oil and 210 mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. during 2018 , our refineries processed 2,081 mbpd of crude oil and 193 mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. our refineries include crude oil atmospheric and vacuum distillation, fluid catalytic cracking, hydrocracking, catalytic reforming, coking, desulfurization and sulfur recovery units. the refineries process a wide variety of condensate and light and heavy crude oils purchased from various domestic and foreign suppliers. we produce numerous refined products, ranging from transportation fuels, such as reformulated gasolines, blend-grade gasolines intended for blending with ethanol and ulsd fuel, to heavy fuel oil and asphalt. additionally, we manufacture aromatics, propane, propylene and sulfur. see the refined product marketing section for further information about the products we produce. our refineries are integrated with each other via pipelines, terminals and barges to maximize operating efficiency. the transportation links that connect our refineries allow the movement of intermediate products between refineries to optimize operations, produce higher margin products and efficiently utilize our processing capacity. for example, naphtha may be moved from dickinson to garyville where excess reforming capacity is available. also, shipping intermediate products between facilities during partial refinery shutdowns allows us to utilize processing capacity that is not directly affected by the shutdown work. 7 table of contents following is a description of each of our refineries and their capacity by region. gulf coast region ( 1,163 mbpcd) galveston bay, texas city, texas refinery ( 585 mbpcd) . our galveston bay refinery is a world-class refining complex resulting from the combination of our former texas city refinery and galveston bay refinery. the refinery is located on the texas gulf coast approximately 30 miles southeast of houston, texas and can process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, feedstocks, distillates, petrochemicals, propane and heavy fuel oil. the refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products. our cogeneration facility, which supplies the galveston bay refinery, currently has 1,055 megawatts of electrical production capacity and can produce 4.3 million pounds of steam per hour. approximately 46 percent of the power generated in 2019 was used at the refinery, with the remaining electricity being sold into the electricity grid. garyville, louisiana refinery ( 578 mbpcd) . our garyville refinery, which is one of the largest refineries in the u.s., is located along the mississippi river in southeastern louisiana between new orleans, louisiana and baton rouge, louisiana. the garyville refinery is configured to process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, petrochemicals, feedstocks, asphalt, propane and heavy fuel oil. the refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products. our garyville refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. mid-continent region ( 1,193 mbpcd) catlettsburg, kentucky refinery ( 291 mbpcd) . our catlettsburg refinery is located in northeastern kentucky on the western bank of the big sandy river, near the confluence with the ohio river. the catlettsburg refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils, including production from the nearby utica shale, into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, petrochemicals, heavy fuel oil, propane and feedstocks. our catlettsburg refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. robinson, illinois refinery ( 253 mbpcd) . our robinson refinery is located in southeastern illinois. the robinson refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, feedstocks, petrochemicals, propane and heavy fuel oil. the robinson refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. detroit, michigan refinery ( 140 mbpcd) . our detroit refinery is located in southwest detroit. it is the only petroleum refinery currently operating in michigan. the detroit refinery processes sweet and heavy sour crude oils, including canadian crude oils, into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, feedstocks, petrochemicals, propane and heavy fuel oil. our detroit refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. el paso, texas refinery ( 131 mbpcd) . our el paso refinery is located approximately three miles east of downtown el paso, texas. the el paso refinery processes sweet and sour crudes into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, heavy fuel oil, propane, feedstocks and petrochemicals. st. paul park, minnesota refinery ( 103 mbpcd) . our st. paul park refinery is located along the mississippi river southeast of st. paul park, minnesota. the st. paul park refinery primarily processes sweet crude from the bakken region in north dakota as well as various grades of canadian sweet and heavy sour crude and manufactures gasoline, distillates, asphalt, feedstocks, propane, petrochemicals and heavy fuel oil. canton, ohio refinery ( 95 mbpcd) . our canton refinery is located approximately 60 miles south of cleveland, ohio. the canton refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils, including production from the nearby utica shale, into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, feedstocks, propane, petrochemicals and heavy fuel oil. the canton refinery has earned designation as an osha vpp star site. mandan, north dakota refinery ( 71 mbpcd) . the mandan refinery processes primarily sweet domestic crude oil from north dakota and manufactures gasoline, distillates, propane, heavy fuel oil, feedstocks and petrochemicals. salt lake city, utah refinery ( 63 mbpcd) . our salt lake city refinery is now the largest in utah. the salt lake city refinery processes crude oil from utah, colorado, wyoming and canada to manufacture gasoline, distillates, feedstocks, propane, heavy fuel oil and petrochemicals. gallup, new mexico refinery ( 27 mbpcd) . our gallup refinery is located near gallup, new mexico and is the only active refinery in the four corners area. the gallup refinery primarily processes high-quality crude known as four corners sweet into gasoline, distillates, feedstocks, heavy fuel oil and propane. 8 table of contents dickinson, north dakota refinery ( 19 mbpcd) . our dickinson refinery is located four miles west of dickinson, north dakota. the dickinson refinery primarily processes domestic crude oil from north dakota and manufactures ultra-low sulfur diesel and feedstocks. we are in the process of converting this refinery into an approximately 180 million gallon per year renewable diesel facility by december 2020. west coast region ( 711 mbpcd) los angeles, california refinery ( 363 mbpcd) . our los angeles refinery is located in los angeles county, near the los angeles harbor. the los angeles refinery is the largest refinery on the west coast and is a major producer of clean fuels. the los angeles refinery processes heavy crude from california's san joaquin valley and los angeles basin as well as crudes from the alaska north slope, south america, west africa and other international sources and manufactures cleaner-burning carb gasoline and carb diesel fuel, as well as conventional gasoline, distillates, feedstocks, petrochemicals, propane and heavy fuel oil. martinez, california refinery ( 161 mbpcd) . our martinez refinery is located in martinez, california. the martinez refinery processes crude oils from california and other domestic and foreign sources and manufactures cleaner-burning carb gasoline and carb diesel fuel, as well as conventional gasoline and distillates, feedstocks, petrochemicals, propane and heavy fuel oil. anacortes, washington refinery ( 119 mbpcd) . our anacortes refinery is located about 70 miles north of seattle on puget sound. the anacortes refinery processes canadian crude, domestic crude from north dakota and alaska north slope and international crudes to manufacture gasoline, distillates, heavy fuel oil, feedstocks, propane and petrochemicals. kenai, alaska refinery ( 68 mbpcd) . our kenai refinery is located on the cook inlet, 60 miles southwest of anchorage. the kenai refinery processes mainly alaska domestic crude, domestic crude from north dakota, along with limited international crude and manufactures distillates, gasoline, heavy fuel oil, feedstocks, asphalt, propane and petrochemicals. planned maintenance activities, or turnarounds, requiring temporary shutdown of certain refinery operating units, are periodically performed at each refinery. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for additional detail. refined product yields the following table sets forth our refinery production by product group for each of the last three years including production from the refineries acquired in the andeavor acquisition from october 1, 2018 forward. ( mbpd ) 2019 2018 2017 gasoline 1,560 1,107 932 distillates 1,087 773 641 feedstocks and petrochemicals 315 288 277 asphalt 87 69 63 propane 55 41 36 heavy fuel oil 49 38 37 total 3,153 2,316 1,986 9 table of contents crude oil supply we obtain the crude oil we refine through negotiated term contracts and purchases or exchanges on the spot market. our term contracts generally have market-related pricing provisions. the following table provides information on our sources of crude oil for each of the last three years. it includes crude sourced for the refineries acquired in the andeavor acquisition from october 1, 2018 forward. the crude oil sourced outside of north america was acquired from various foreign national oil companies, production companies and trading companies. ( mbpd ) 2019 2018 2017 united states 1,962 1,319 999 canada 541 465 381 middle east and other international 399 297 385 total 2,902 2,081 1,765 our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks and distribute our refined products through a variety of channels, including pipelines, trucks, railcars, ships and barges. renewable fuels we in the process of converting our dickinson, north dakota refinery into an approximately 180 million gallon per year renewable diesel facility by december 2020. we own a biofuel production facility in cincinnati, ohio that produces biodiesel, glycerin and other by-products. the capacity of the plant is approximately 80 million gallons per year. our wholly-owned subsidiary, virent, is an advanced biofuels facility in madison, wisconsin that is working to commercialize a process for converting biobased feedstocks into renewable fuels and chemicals. we hold an ownership interest in ethanol production facilities in albion, michigan; logansport, indiana; greenville, ohio and denison, iowa. these plants have a combined ethanol production capacity of approximately 475 million gallons per year ( 31 mbpd) and are managed by our joint venture partner, the andersons. refined product marketing our refined products are sold to independent retailers, wholesale customers, our brand jobbers and our retail segment. in addition, we sell refined products for export to international customers. as of december 31, 2019 , there were 6,901 branded outlets in 35 states, the district of columbia and mexico where independent entrepreneurs primarily maintain marathon-branded outlets. we believe we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers and consumers within our 41 -state market area. the following table sets forth our refined product sales volumes by product group for each of the last three years including sales from the refineries acquired in the andeavor acquisition from october 1, 2018 forward. ( mbpd ) 2019 2018 2017 gasoline 1,967 1,416 1,201 distillates 1,205 847 691 feedstocks and petrochemicals 345 289 265 asphalt 93 70 68 propane 72 44 37 heavy fuel oil 53 37 39 total 3,735 2,703 2,301 10 table of contents refined product sales destined for export we sell gasoline, distillates and asphalt for export, primarily out of our garyville, galveston bay, anacortes, martinez, los angeles and kenai refineries. the following table sets forth our refined product sales destined for export by product group for the past three years including sales from the refineries acquired in the andeavor acquisition from october 1, 2018 forward. ( mbpd ) 2019 2018 2017 gasoline 131 117 96 distillates 215 193 192 asphalt and other 51 24 9 total 397 334 297 gasoline and distillates . we sell gasoline, gasoline blendstocks and distillates (including no. 1 and no. 2 fuel oils, jet fuel, kerosene and diesel fuel) to wholesale customers, marathon-branded independent entrepreneurs, our retail segment and on the spot market. in addition, we sell diesel fuel and gasoline for export to international customers. the demand for gasoline and distillates is seasonal in many of our markets, with demand typically at its highest levels during the summer months. feedstocks and petrochemicals . we are a producer and marketer of feedstocks and petrochemicals. product availability varies by refinery and includes, among others, propylene, naphtha, alkylate, xylene, butane, benzene, raffinate, dry gas, cumene, toluene and platformate. we market these products domestically to customers in the chemical, agricultural and fuel-blending industries. in addition, we produce fuel-grade coke at our garyville, detroit, galveston bay and los angeles refineries, which is used for power generation and in miscellaneous industrial applications, and anode-grade coke at our los angeles and robinson refineries, which is used to make carbon anodes for the aluminum smelting industry. asphalt . we have refinery-based asphalt production capacity of up to 136 mbpcd, which includes asphalt cements, polymer-modified asphalt, emulsified asphalt, industrial asphalts and roofing flux. we have a broad customer base, including asphalt-paving contractors, government entities (states, counties, cities and townships) and asphalt roofing shingle manufacturers. we sell asphalt in the domestic and export wholesale markets via rail, barge and vessel. propane . we produce propane at all of our refineries except dickinson. propane is primarily used for home heating and cooking, as a feedstock within the petrochemical industry, for grain drying and as a fuel for trucks and other vehicles. our propane sales are split approximately 80 percent and 20 percent between the home heating market and petrochemical consumers, respectively. heavy fuel oil . we produce and market heavy residual fuel oil or related components, including slurry, at all of our refineries except dickinson. heavy residual fuel oil is primarily used in the utility and ship bunkering (fuel) industries, though there are other more specialized uses of the product. terminals and transportation we transport, store and distribute crude oil, feedstocks and refined products through pipelines, terminals and marine fleets owned by mplx and third parties in our market areas. we own a fleet of transport trucks and trailers for the movement of refined products and crude oil. in addition, we maintain a fleet of leased and owned railcars for the movement and storage of refined products. the locations and detailed information about our refining &amp; marketing assets are included under item 2. properties and are incorporated herein by reference. 11 table of contents competition, market conditions and seasonality the downstream petroleum business is highly competitive, particularly with regard to accessing crude oil and other feedstock supply and the marketing of refined products. we compete with a number of other companies to acquire crude oil for refinery processing and in the distribution and marketing of a full array of refined products. based upon company data as reported in the the oil &amp; gas journal 2019 worldwide refinery survey, we ranked first among u.s. petroleum companies on the basis of u.s. crude oil refining capacity. we compete in four distinct markets for the sale of refined products wholesale, including exports, spot, branded and retail distribution. our marketing operations compete with numerous other independent marketers, integrated oil companies and high-volume retailers. we compete with companies in the sale of refined products to wholesale marketing customers, including private-brand marketers and large commercial and industrial consumers; companies in the sale of refined products in the spot market; and refiners or marketers in the supply of refined products to refiner-branded independent entrepreneurs. in addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and retail consumers. market conditions in the oil and gas industry are cyclical and subject to global economic and political events and new and changing governmental regulations. our operating results are affected by price changes in crude oil, natural gas and refined products, as well as changes in competitive conditions in the markets we serve. price differentials between sweet and sour crude oils, ans, wti and lls crude oils and other market structure impacts also affect our operating results. demand for gasoline, diesel fuel and asphalt is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets, primarily due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and construction. as a result, the operating results for our refining &amp; marketing segment for the first and fourth quarters may be lower than for those in the second and third quarters of each calendar year. retail our retail segment sells gasoline, diesel and merchandise through convenience stores that it owns and operates, primarily under the speedway brand, and gasoline and diesel through direct dealer locations. our company-owned and operated convenience stores offer a wide variety of merchandise, including prepared foods, beverages and non-food items. speedway's speedy rewards loyalty program has been a highly successful loyalty program since its inception in 2004, which averaged approximately 6.3 million active members in 2019 . speedway's ability to capture and analyze member-specific transactional data enables us to offer speedy rewards members discounts and promotions specific to their buying behavior. we believe speedy rewards is a key reason customers choose speedway over competitors and it continues to drive significant value for both speedway and our speedy rewards members. as of december 31, 2019 , our retail segment had 3,898 company-owned and operated convenience stores across the united states and we have long-term supply contracts for 1,068 direct dealer locations primarily in southern california, largely under the arco brand. speedway also owns a 29 percent interest in pfj southeast llc ( pfj southeast ), which is a joint venture between speedway and pilot flying j with 125 travel center locations primarily in the southeast united states as of december 31, 2019 . additionally, speedway and pilot travel centers llc ( ptc ) entered into an agreement effective october 1, 2019 in which ptc will supply, price and sell diesel fuel at certain speedway and ptc locations with both companies sharing in the diesel fuel margins. at december 31, 2019 , this agreement included approximately 330 speedway and ptc fueling locations across 13 states, including approximately 180 speedway commercial fueling locations. the locations and detailed information about our retail assets are included under item 2. properties and are incorporated herein by reference. competition, market conditions and seasonality we face strong competition for sales of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. our competitors include service stations and convenience stores operated by fully integrated major oil companies, independent entrepreneurs and other well-recognized national or regional convenience stores and travel centers, often selling gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise at competitive prices. non-traditional transportation fuel retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, have affected the convenience store industry with their 12 table of contents entrance into sales of retail gasoline and diesel fuel. energy analysts international, inc. estimated such retailers had approximately 16 percent of the u.s. gasoline market in 2019 . demand for gasoline and diesel fuel is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets, primarily due to seasonal increases in highway traffic. as a result, the operating results for our retail segment for the first and fourth quarters may be lower than for those in the second and third quarters of each calendar year. margins from the sale of merchandise tend to be less volatile than margins from the retail sale of gasoline and diesel fuel. midstream the midstream segment primarily includes the operations of mplx, our sponsored mlp, and certain related operations retained by mpc. mplx mplx owns and operates a network of crude oil, natural gas and refined product pipelines and has joint ownership interests in other crude oil and refined products pipelines. mplx also owns and operates light products terminals, storage assets and maintains a fleet of owned and leased towboats and barges. mplx's assets also include natural gas gathering systems and natural gas processing and ngl fractionation complexes. mpc-retained midstream assets and investments we have ownership interests in several crude oil and refined products pipeline systems and pipeline companies and have indirect ownership interests in two ocean vessel joint ventures through our investment in crowley coastal partners. the locations and detailed information about our midstream assets are included under item 2. properties and are incorporated herein by reference. competition, market conditions and seasonality our midstream operations face competition for natural gas gathering, crude oil transportation and in obtaining natural gas supplies for our processing and related services; in obtaining unprocessed ngls for gathering and fractionation; and in marketing our products and services. competition for natural gas supplies is based primarily on the location of gas gathering facilities and gas processing plants, operating efficiency and reliability and the ability to obtain a satisfactory price for products recovered. competitive factors affecting our fractionation services include availability of capacity, proximity to supply and industry marketing centers and cost efficiency and reliability of service. competition for customers to purchase our natural gas and ngls is based primarily on price, delivery capabilities, flexibility and maintenance of high-quality customer relationships. in addition, certain of our midstream operations are highly regulated, which affects the rates that our common carrier pipelines can charge for transportation services and the return we obtain from such pipelines. our midstream segment can be affected by seasonal fluctuations in the demand for natural gas and ngls and the related fluctuations in commodity prices caused by various factors such as changes in transportation and travel patterns and variations in weather patterns from year to year. environmental matters our management is responsible for ensuring that our operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that support and foster our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and for reviewing our overall environmental performance. we also have a corporate emergency response team that oversees our response to any major environmental or other emergency incident involving us or any of our facilities. we believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to greenhouse gas emissions, climate change, and climate adaptation will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations. currently, legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas emissions are in various phases of review, discussion or implementation. the cost to comply with these laws and regulations cannot be estimated at this time, but could be significant. for additional information, see item 1a. risk factors. we estimate and publicly report greenhouse gas emissions from our operations. additionally, we continuously strive to improve operational and energy efficiencies through resource and energy conservation where practicable. 13 table of contents our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. such laws and regulations include, among others, the clean air act ( caa ) with respect to air emissions, the clean water act ( cwa ) with respect to water discharges, the resource conservation and recovery act ( rcra ) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal, the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and liability act ( cercla ) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances and the oil pollution act of 1990 ( opa-90 ) with respect to oil pollution and response. in addition, many states where we operate have similar laws. new laws are being enacted and regulations are being adopted on a continuing basis, and the costs of compliance with such new laws and regulations are very difficult to estimate until finalized. for a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-environmental matters and compliance costs. air greenhouse gas emissions we are subject to many requirements in connection with air emissions from our operations. internationally and domestically, emphasis has been placed on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. in july 2019, the trump administration continued its shift in climate-related policy away from the obama administration's policies by repealing the clean power plan and replacing it with the affordable clean energy rule, which establishes guidelines for states to develop plans to address greenhouse gas emissions from existing coal-fired power plants. president trump also announced the united states' intention to withdraw from the 2015 paris un climate change conference agreement, which aims to hold the increase in the global average temperature to well below two degrees celsius as compared to pre-industrial levels. many of the policies and regulations rescinded through executive order 13783 had been adopted to meet the united states' pledge under the paris agreement. the u.s. climate change strategy and implementation of that strategy through legislation and regulation may change under future administrations; therefore, the impact to our industry and operations due to greenhouse gas regulation is unknown at this time. in the absence of federal legislation or regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, states are becoming active in regulating greenhouse gas emissions. these measures may include state actions to develop statewide or regional programs to impose emission reductions. these measures may also include low-carbon fuel standards, such as the california program, or a state carbon tax. these measures could result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, capital expenditures to install new emission controls and costs to administer any carbon trading or tax programs implemented. for example, in 2017, the california state legislature adopted ab 398, which provides direction and parameters on utilizing cap and trade after 2020 to meet the 40% reduction target from 1990 levels by 2030 specified in sb 32. compliance with the cap and trade program is demonstrated through a market-based credit system. the carb is now exploring the potential for additional greenhouse gas reductions by 2045 via a yet undefined carbon neutrality standard. much of the compliance costs associated with these california regulations are ultimately passed on to the consumer in the form of higher fuel costs. we cannot currently predict the impact of these regulations on our liquidity, financial position, or results of operations, but we do not believe such impact will be material. in sum, requiring reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any greenhouse gas emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments. these requirements may also significantly affect mpc's refinery operations and may have an indirect effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the extent and magnitude of the impact from greenhouse gas regulation or legislation cannot be reasonably estimated due to the uncertainty regarding the additional measures and how they will be implemented. regardless of whether legislation or regulation is enacted, given the continuing global demand for oil and gas - even under different hypothetical carbon-constrained scenarios - mpc has taken actions that have resulted in lower greenhouse gas emission intensity and we believe we are positioned to remain a successful company well into the future. we have instituted a program to improve energy efficiency of our refineries and other assets which will continue to pay dividends in reducing our environmental footprint as well as making us more cost-competitive. we believe our mature governance and risk-management processes enable the company to effectively monitor and adjust to any transitional, reputational or physical climate-related risks. 14 table of contents other air emissions in 2015, united states environmental protection agency ( epa ) finalized a revision to the national ambient air quality standards ( naaqs ) for ozone. the epa lowered the primary ozone naaqs from 75 ppb to 70 ppb. this revision initiated a multi-year process in which nonattainment designations will be made based on more recent ozone measurements that includes data from 2016. on november 6, 2017, the epa finalized ozone attainment/unclassifiable designations for certain areas under the new standard. in actions dated april 30, 2018 and july 25, 2018, the epa finalized nonattainment designations for certain areas under the lower primary ozone standard. in some areas, these nonattainment designations could result in increased costs associated with, or result in cancellation or delay of, capital projects at our facilities. for areas designated nonattainment, states will be required to adopt state implementation plans ( sips ) for nonattainment areas. these sips may include nox and/or volatile organic compound ( voc ) reductions that could result in increased costs to our facilities. we cannot predict the effects of the various sips requirements at this time. in california, the board for the south coast air quality management district ( scaqmd ) passed amendments to the regional clean air incentives market ( reclaim ) that became effective in 2016, requiring a staged reduction of nitrogen oxide emissions through 2022. in 2017, the state of california passed ab 617, which requires each air district that is a nonattainment area for one or more air pollutants to adopt an expedited schedule for implementation of best available retrofit control technology ( barct ) on specific facilities. barct applies to all facilities subject to reclaim. in response to ab 617, the scaqmd is currently working to sunset the existing reclaim program and replace it with applicable barct regulations. a sunset of the reclaim program and application of barct could result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities or install emissions controls at our facilities in the scaqmd. water we maintain numerous discharge permits as required under the national pollutant discharge elimination system program of the cwa and have implemented systems to oversee our compliance with these permits. in addition, we are regulated under opa-90, which, among other things, requires the owner or operator of a tank vessel or a facility to maintain an emergency plan to respond to releases of oil or hazardous substances. opa-90 also requires the responsible company to pay resulting removal costs and damages and provides for civil penalties and criminal sanctions for violations of its provisions. we operate tank vessels and facilities from which spills of oil and hazardous substances could occur. we have implemented emergency oil response plans for all of our components and facilities covered by opa-90 and we have established spill prevention, control and countermeasures plans for all facilities subject to such requirements. additionally, opa-90 requires that new tank vessels entering or operating in u.s. waters be double-hulled and that existing tank vessels that are not double-hulled be retrofitted or removed from u.s. service. all barges used for river transport of our raw materials and refined products meet the double-hulled requirements of opa-90. some coastal states in which we operate have passed state laws similar to opa-90, but with expanded liability provisions, that include provisions for cargo owner responsibility as well as ship owner and operator responsibility. on october 22, 2019, the epa and the united states army corps of engineers ( army corps ) published a final rule to repeal the 2015 clean water rule: definition of waters of the united states ( 2015 rule ), which amended portions of the code of federal regulations ( cfr ) to restore the regulatory text that existed prior to the 2015 rule, effective december 23, 2019. the rule repealing the 2015 clean water rule has been challenged in multiple federal courts. on january 23, 2020, the epa and the army corps finalized the navigable waters protection rule ( 2020 rule ) to define waters of the united states. this rule will become effective 60 days after publication in the federal register and will replace the pre-2015 regulatory text that had been restored by the october 2019 rule. the 2020 rule will likely be challenged in court. a broader definition of waters of the united states, such as that included in the 2015 rule, could result in increased cost of compliance or increased capital costs for construction of new facilities or expansion of existing facilities. in 2015, the epa issued its intent to review the cwa categorical effluent limitation guidelines ( elg ) for the petroleum refining sector. during 2017, the epa prepared and issued an information request ( icr ) requesting significant wastewater and treatment process details from select refineries, seven of which were ours. responses to the icr were submitted to the epa in early 2018. in september 2019, the epa issued its detailed study of the petroleum refining category - 2019 report which concluded the epa's review. in october 2019, the epa published its preliminary effluent guidelines program plan 14 ( plan 14 ) and requested comments. plan 14 indicated that the epa was proposing to conclude the study of the petroleum 15 table of contents refinery category and not take further action at this time, however, it also indicated that it intended a future review or study of the category but did not elaborate on scope or timing of such review or study. changes in the elg could result in increased costs of compliance, including capital improvement projects at our facilities. as part of our emergency response activities, we have used aqueous film forming foam ( afff ) containing per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances ( pfas ) chemicals as a fire suppressant. at this time, afffs containing pfas are the only proven foams that can prevent and control most flammable petroleum-based liquid fires. in may 2016, the epa issued lifetime health advisories ( has ) and health effects support documents for two pfas substances - perfluorooctanoic acid ( pfoa ) and perfluorooctane sulfonate ( pfos ). the epa's has, which identify the concentration of pfoa and pfos in drinking water at or below which adverse health effects are not anticipated to occur over a lifetime of exposure, are 0.07 parts per billion (70 parts per trillion) for pfoa and pfos. has are non-regulatory and reflect the epa's assessment of the best available peer-reviewed science. in february 2019, epa issued a pfas action plan identifying actions the epa is planning to take to study and regulate various pfas chemicals. the epa identified that it would evaluate, among other actions, (1) proposing national drinking water standards for pfoa and pfos, (2) develop cleanup recommendations for pfoa and pfos, (3) evaluate listing pfoa and pfos as hazardous substances under cercla, and (4) conduct toxicity assessments for other pfas chemicals. in february 2020, the epa announced its preliminary determinations to regulate pfos and pfoa in drinking water and is taking public comment on such preliminary determinations. if the preliminary determinations become final, the epa will set drinking water limits for pfos and pfoa. congress has introduced multiple bills in the house and senate proposing to regulate pfas. to date, only one such bill has been signed into law. the national defense authorization act includes provisions that added certain pfas to the toxics release inventory under the emergency planning and community right-to-know act. facilities that manufacture, process or produce listed pfas in quantities of more than 100 pounds per year will be required to report their releases of pfas. we expect further congressional action or epa action in the future, however, it is unknown at this time what future legislation and/or regulation will entail. in addition, many states are actively proposing and adopting legislation and regulations relating to the use of afff. additionally, some states are adopting and proposing state-specific drinking water and cleanup standards for various pfas. we cannot currently predict the impact of these regulations on our liquidity, financial position, or results of operations. solid waste we continue to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. rcra establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. besides affecting waste disposal practices, rcra also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of usts containing regulated substances. remediation we own or operate, or have owned or operated, certain convenience stores and other locations where, during the normal course of operations, releases of refined products from usts have occurred. federal and state laws require that contamination caused by such releases at these sites be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards. penalties or other sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance. the enforcement of the ust regulations under rcra has been delegated to the states, which administer their own ust programs. our obligation to remediate such contamination varies, depending on the extent of the releases and the applicable state laws and regulations. a portion of these remediation costs may be recoverable from the appropriate state ust reimbursement funds once the applicable deductibles have been satisfied. we also have ongoing remediation projects at a number of our current and former refinery, terminal and pipeline locations. claims under cercla and similar state acts have been raised with respect to the clean-up of various waste disposal and other sites. cercla is intended to facilitate the clean-up of hazardous substances without regard to fault. potentially responsible parties for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the hazardous substances at the site. liability is strict and can be joint and several. because of various factors including the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and clean-up costs and the time period during 16 table of contents which such costs may be incurred, we are unable to reasonably estimate our ultimate cost of compliance with cercla; however, we do not believe such costs will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. renewable fuels and other fuels requirements the u.s. congress passed the energy independence and security act of 2007 ( eisa ), which, among other things, set a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the united states by model year 2020. in august 2012, the epa and the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ) jointly adopted regulations that increased the mile per gallon standards for passenger cars and light trucks through model year 2025. in 2018, the epa and the nhtsa jointly proposed the safer affordable fuel-efficient vehicles rules for model years 2021-2026, which would propose new corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) standards for model years 2022 through 2026, amend the 2021 model year cafe standards, amend the epa's carbon dioxide emission standards for model years 2021 through 2025, and establish new carbon dioxide emission standards for model year 2026. the epa's preferred alternative is to retain the model year 2020 standards for both programs through model year 2026. the standards established by the final regulation may differ. higher cafe standards for cars and light trucks have the potential to reduce demand for our transportation fuels. in addition, the nhtsa and the epa issued rules providing that the energy policy and conservation act ( epca ) preempts state regulations of tailpipe carbon dioxide emissions, withdrew the waiver granted to california for its advanced clean car program and determined that the clean air act permits other states to adopt only those california standards that are designed to control traditional criteria pollutants. california may establish per its clean air act waiver authority different standards that could apply in multiple states. new or alternative transportation fuels such as compressed natural gas could also pose a competitive threat to our operations. pursuant to the energy policy act of 2005 and the eisa, the epa has promulgated a renewable fuel standard ( rfs ) program that requires certain volumes of renewable fuel be blended with our products. eisa requires the total volume of renewable transportation fuels sold or introduced annually in the u.s. to reach 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. within the total volume of renewable fuel, eisa established nested categories of renewable fuel: advanced biofuel; biomass-based diesel; and cellulosic biofuel. by november 30 of each year, the epa is required to promulgate the annual renewable fuel standards for the following compliance year. in a legal challenge to the 2014-2016 volumes, the d.c. circuit court of appeals vacated the total renewable volume for 2016 and remanded to the epa for reconsideration consistent with the court's opinion. a rule that increases the total renewable volume for any compliance year to make up for the 2016 shortfall could increase our cost of compliance with the rfs program, require us to use carryover rins and be detrimental to the rin market. the epa has finalized the annual renewable fuel standards for the year 2020. for the first time, the epa has proposed to reallocate to non-exempt obligated parties the renewable volume obligations of the refiners that were granted a small refinery exemption. also, the tenth circuit court of appeals recently held that a small refinery is eligible for an exemption from the rfs only if it is applying for an extension of its original exemption. according to the epa's data, seven refineries were granted the small refinery exemption in 2015. the epa granted 19 small refinery exemptions in 2016, 35 exemptions in 2017, and 31 exemptions in 2018. a lawsuit challenging the 2018 small refinery exemption letter is currently pending in the d.c. circuit court of appeals, and similar additional lawsuits may be filed in the future. the reallocation of volumes under the 2020 rule or the invalidation of past small refinery exemptions granted to us or other refiners could result in a decrease in the rin bank, an increase in the price of rins or an increase in the amount of renewable fuel we are required to blend, any of which could increase mpc's rfs cost of compliance. the rfs is satisfied primarily with ethanol blended into gasoline. vehicle, regulatory and infrastructure constraints limit the blending of significantly more than 10 percent ethanol into gasoline ( e10 ). since 2016, the volume requirements have resulted in the ethanol content of gasoline exceeding the e10 blendwall, which will require obligated parties to either sell e15 or ethanol flex fuel at levels that exceed historical levels or retire carryover rins. there is currently no regulatory method for verifying the validity of the rins sold on the open market. we have developed a rin integrity program to vet the rins that we purchase, and we incur costs to audit rin 17 table of contents generators. nevertheless, if any of the rins that we purchase and use for compliance are found to be invalid, we could incur costs and penalties for replacing the invalid rins. in addition to the federal renewable fuel standards, certain states have, or are considering, promulgation of state renewable or low carbon fuel standards. for example, california began implementing its low carbon fuel standard ( lcfs ) in january 2011. in september 2015, the carb approved the re-adoption of the lcfs, which became effective on january 1, 2016, to address procedural deficiencies in the way the original regulation was adopted. the lcfs was amended again in 2018 with the current version targeting a 20 percent reduction in fuel carbon intensity from a 2010 baseline by 2030. the carb is now exploring the imposition of a 50% renewable fuel requirement for diesel (low emission diesel) sold in california by 2030. we incur costs to comply with the california lcfs, and these costs may increase if the cost of lcfs credits increases. in sum, the rfs has required, and may in the future continue to require, additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. we may experience a decrease in demand for refined products due to an increase in combined fleet mileage or due to refined products being replaced by renewable fuels. demand for our refined products also may decrease as a result of low carbon fuel standard programs or electric vehicle mandates. tribal lands various federal agencies, including the epa and the department of the interior, along with certain native american tribes, promulgate and enforce regulations pertaining to oil and gas operations on native american tribal lands where we operate. these regulations include such matters as lease provisions, drilling and production requirements, and standards to protect environmental quality and cultural resources. for example, the epa has established a preconstruction permitting program for new and modified minor sources throughout native american tribal lands, and new and modified major sources in nonattainment areas in those areas. in addition, each native american tribe is a sovereign nation having the right to enforce certain laws and regulations and to grant approvals independent from federal, state and local statutes and regulations. these laws and regulations may increase our costs of doing business on native american tribal lands and impact the viability of, or prevent or delay our ability to conduct, our operations on such lands. trademarks, patents and licenses o ur marathon trademark is material to the conduct of our refining and marketing operations, and our speedway and arco trademarks are material to the conduct of our retail operations. additionally, the retail and marketing businesses we acquired in the andeavor acquisition primarily use the shell and mobil brands for fuel sales and ampm and giant brands for convenience store merchandise. we currently hold a number of u.s. and foreign patents and have various pending patent applications. although in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important to us, we do not regard any single patent or license or group of related patents or licenses as critical or essential to our business as a whole. in general, we depend on our technological capabilities and the application of know-how rather than patents and licenses in the conduct of our operations. employees we had approximately 60,910 regular full-time and part-time employees as of december 31, 2019 , which includes approximately 40,390 employees of our retail segment. approximately 4,650 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. of these employees, approximately 190 employees at our st. paul park refinery are covered by a collective bargaining agreement scheduled to expire on december 31, 2020. approximately 280 employees at our el paso refinery are covered by a collective bargaining agreement scheduled to expire in april 2021. approximately 3,425 employees at our anacortes, canton, catlettsburg, galveston bay, los angeles, mandan, martinez and salt lake city refineries are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are due to expire in early 2022. the remaining 750 hourly represented employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with expiration dates ranging from 2021 to 2024. 18 table of contents information about our executive and corporate officers the executive and corporate officers of mpc are as follows: name age as of february 1, 2020 position with mpc gary r. heminger 66 chairman and chief executive officer donald c. templin 56 executive vice president and chief financial officer timothy t. griffith 50 president, speedway llc michael j. hennigan 60 mplx president and chief executive officer raymond l. brooks 59 executive vice president, refining glenn m. plumby* 60 executive vice president and chief operating officer, speedway llc suzanne gagle 54 general counsel fiona c. laird* 58 chief human resources officer c. tracy case* 59 senior vice president, western refining operations richard a. hernandez* 60 senior vice president, eastern refining operations rick d. hessling* 53 senior vice president, crude oil supply and logistics brian k. partee* 46 senior vice president, marketing david r. sauber* 56 senior vice president, labor relations, operations, health and administrative services david l. whikehart* 60 senior vice president, light products, supply and logistics molly r. benson* 53 vice president, chief securities, governance &amp; compliance officer and corporate secretary david r. heppner* 53 vice president, commercial and business development thomas kaczynski 58 vice president, finance and treasurer kristina a. kazarian* 37 vice president, investor relations d. rick linhardt* 61 vice president, tax john j. quaid 48 vice president and controller, principal accounting officer karma m. thomson* 52 vice president, corporate affairs donald w. wehrly* 60 vice president and chief information officer james r. wilkins* 53 vice president, environment, safety and security * corporate officer. mr. heminger is chairman of the board and chief executive officer. he has served as the chairman of the board since april 2016 and as chief executive officer since june 2011. mr. heminger also served as president from july 2011 until june 2017. he has served as mplx's chairman of the board since june 2012 and as chief executive officer from june 2012 through october 2019. mr. heminger began his career with marathon in 1975 and has served in roles in finance and administration, auditing, marketing and commercial, and business development, including as president of marathon pipe line company; manager, business development and joint interest of marathon oil company; and vice president and senior vice president, business development, marathon ashland petroleum llc. in 2001, he was named executive vice president, supply, transportation and marketing, and was appointed president of marathon petroleum company llc and executive vice president-downstream of marathon oil corporation later that year. mr. heminger has announced his plans to retire as chairman of the board and chief executive officer effective april 29, 2020. he will also retire from mplx's board of directors on that date. mr. templin was appointed executive vice president and chief financial officer effective july 2019. prior to this appointment, he served as president, refining, marketing and supply beginning in october 2018, president beginning in july 2017, executive vice president of mpc and president of mplx beginning in january 2016, executive vice president, supply, transportation and marketing beginning in march 2015, vice president and chief financial officer of mplx beginning in 2012, and senior vice president and chief financial officer of mpc beginning in june 2011. 19 table of contents mr. griffith was appointed president of speedway llc effective july 2019. prior to this appointment, he served as senior vice president and chief financial officer beginning in march 2015, vice president, finance and investor relations, and treasurer beginning in january 2014, and vice president of finance and treasurer beginning in august 2011. mr. hennigan was appointed chief executive officer of mplx effective november 2019 and has served as president since june 2017. before joining mplx, mr. hennigan was president, crude, ngl and refined products of the general partner of energy transfer partners l.p., an energy service provider. he was president and chief executive officer of sunoco logistics partners l.p., an oil and gas transportation, terminalling and storage company, from 2012 to 2017, president and chief operating officer beginning in 2010, and vice president, business development beginning in 2009. mr. brooks was appointed executive vice president, refining effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, he served as senior vice president, refining beginning in march 2016, general manager of the galveston bay refinery beginning in february 2013, general manager of the robinson refinery beginning in 2010, and general manager of the st. paul park, minnesota refinery beginning in 2006. mr. plumby was appointed executive vice president and chief operating officer, speedway llc effective august 2019. prior to this appointment, he served as senior vice president and chief operating officer, speedway llc beginning in january 2018, senior vice president of operations, speedway llc beginning in september 2013, and vice president of operations, speedway llc beginning in december 2010. ms. gagle was appointed general counsel effective march 2016. prior to this appointment, she served as assistant general counsel, litigation and human resources beginning in april 2011, senior group counsel, downstream operations beginning in 2010, and group counsel, litigation beginning in 2003. ms. laird was appointed chief human resources officer effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, she was chief human resources officer at andeavor beginning in february 2018. before joining andeavor, ms. laird was chief human resources and communications officer for newell brands, a global consumer goods company, beginning in may 2016 and executive vice president, human resources for unilever, a global consumer goods company, beginning in july 2011. mr. case was appointed senior vice president, western refining operations effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, he served as general manager of the garyville refinery beginning in december 2014, and general manager of the detroit refinery beginning in june 2010. mr. hernandez was appointed senior vice president, eastern refining operations effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, he served as general manager of the galveston bay refinery beginning in february 2016, and general manager of the catlettsburg refinery beginning in june 2013. mr. hessling was appointed senior vice president, crude oil supply and logistics effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, he served as manager, crude oil &amp; natural gas supply and trading beginning in september 2014, and crude oil logistics &amp; analysis manager beginning in july 2011. mr. partee was appointed senior vice president, marketing effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, he served as vice president, business development beginning in february 2018, director of business development beginning in january 2017, manager of crude oil logistics beginning in september 2014, and vice president, business development and franchise at speedway beginning in november 2012. mr. sauber was appointed senior vice president, labor relations, operations, health and administrative services effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, he served as senior vice president, human resources, health and administrative services beginning in january 2018, and vice president, human resources and labor relations beginning in february 2017. before joining mpc, mr. sauber was vice president, human resources policy, benefits and services of shell oil company, a global energy and petrochemical company, beginning in 2013. mr. whikehart was appointed senior vice president, light products, supply and logistics effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, he served as vice president, environment, safety and corporate affairs beginning in february 2016, vice president, corporate planning, government &amp; public affairs beginning in january 2016, and director, product supply and optimization beginning in march 2011. 20 table of contents ms. benson was appointed vice president, chief compliance officer and corporate secretary effective march 2016 and as chief securities and governance officer effective june 2018. prior to her 2016 appointment, she served as assistant general counsel, corporate and finance beginning in april 2012. mr. heppner was appointed vice president, commercial and business development effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, he served as senior vice president of engineering services and corporate support of speedway llc beginning in september 2014, and director, wholesale marketing beginning in january 2010. mr. kaczynski was appointed vice president, finance and treasurer effective august 2015. prior to this appointment, he was vice president and treasurer of goodyear tire and rubber company, one of the world's largest tire manufacturers, beginning in 2014, and vice president, investor relations beginning in 2013. ms. kazarian was appointed vice president, investor relations effective april 2018. prior to this appointment, she was managing director and head of the mlp, midstream and refining equity research teams at credit suisse, a global investment bank and financial services company, beginning in september 2017. previously, ms. kazarian was managing director of mlp, midstream and natural gas equity research at deutsche bank, a global investment bank and financial services company, beginning in september 2014, and an analyst specializing on various energy industry subsectors with fidelity management &amp; research company, a privately held investment manager, beginning in 2005. mr. linhardt was appointed vice president, tax effective february 2018. prior to this appointment, he served as director of tax beginning in june 2017, and manager of tax compliance beginning in may 2013. mr. quaid was appointed vice president and controller effective june 2014. prior to this appointment, he was vice president of iron ore at united states steel corporation, an integrated steel producer, beginning in january 2014, and vice president and treasurer beginning in august 2011. ms. thomson was appointed vice president, corporate affairs effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, she was vice president of andeavor logistics beginning in june 2017, and andeavor's vice president, salt lake city refinery beginning in october 2012. mr. wehrly was appointed vice president and chief information officer effective june 2011. mr. wilkins was appointed vice president, environment, safety and security effective october 2018. prior to this appointment, he served as director, environment, safety, security and product quality beginning in february 2016, and director, refining environmental, safety, security and process safety management beginning in june 2013. available information general information about mpc, including corporate governance principles and charters for the audit committee, compensation committee, corporate governance and nominating committee and sustainability committee, can be found at www.marathonpetroleum.com by selecting investors under corporate governance and board of directors . in addition, our code of business conduct and code of ethics for senior financial officers are also available in this same location. we will post on our website any amendments to, or waivers from, either of our codes requiring disclosure under applicable rules within four business days of the amendment or waiver. mpc uses its website, www.marathonpetroleum.com , as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, financial information and market data. our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q and current reports on form 8-k, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished with the sec. these documents are also available in hard copy, free of charge, by contacting our investor relations office. in addition, our website allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive email alerts when we post news releases and financial information on our website. information contained on our website is not incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k or other securities filings. 21 table of contents item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider each of the following risks and all the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k in evaluating us and our common stock. some of these risks relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate, while others relate to the ownership of our common stock. our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by these risks, and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline. risks relating to our business our financial results are affected by volatile refining margins, which are dependent on factors beyond our control. our operating results, cash flows, future rate of growth, the carrying value of our assets and our ability to execute share repurchases and continue the payment of our base dividend are highly dependent on the margins we realize on our refined products. historically, refining and marketing margins have been volatile, and we believe they will continue to be volatile. our margins from the sale of gasoline and other refined products are influenced by a number of conditions, including the price of crude oil. the price of crude oil and the price at which we can sell our refined products may fluctuate independently due to a variety of regional and global market factors that are beyond our control, including: worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for crude oil and refined products; transportation infrastructure availability, local market conditions and operation levels of other refineries in our markets; natural gas and electricity supply costs incurred by refineries; political instability, threatened or actual terrorist incidents, armed conflict or other global political conditions; local weather conditions; seasonality of demand in our marketing areas due to increased highway traffic in the spring and summer months; natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornadoes; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and local, regional, national and worldwide economic conditions. some of these factors can vary by region and may change quickly, adding to market volatility, while others may have longer-term effects. the longer-term effects of these and other factors on refining and marketing margins are uncertain. we purchase our crude oil and other refinery feedstocks weeks before we refine them and sell the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the refined products from these feedstocks can have a significant effect on our financial results. we also purchase refined products manufactured by others for resale to our customers. price changes during the periods between purchasing and reselling those refined products can have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. lower refining and marketing margins may lead us to reduce the amount of refined products we produce, which may reduce our revenues, income from operations and cash flows. significant reductions in refining and marketing margins could require us to reduce our capital expenditures, impair the carrying value of our assets (such as property, plant and equipment, inventory or goodwill), and decrease or eliminate our share repurchase activity and our base dividend. legal, technological, political and scientific developments regarding emissions and fuel efficiency may decrease demand for transportation fuels. developments aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions may decrease the demand or increase the cost for our transportation fuels. attitudes toward these products and their relationship to the environment may significantly affect our effectiveness in marketing our products. government efforts to steer the public toward non-petroleum-based fuel dependent modes of transportation may foster a negative perception toward transportation fuels or increase costs for our products, thus affecting the public's attitude toward our major product. advanced technology and increased use of vehicles that do not use petroleum-based transportation 22 table of contents fuels or that are powered by hybrid engines would reduce demand for motor fuel. we may also incur increased costs for our products, which we may not be able to pass along to our customers. these developments could potentially have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. failure to manage risks associated with business interruptions could adversely impact our operations, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to business interruptions such as scheduled refinery turnarounds, unplanned maintenance or unplanned events such as explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents, power outages, severe weather, labor disputes, or other natural or man-made disasters, such as acts of terrorism. explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents involving our assets or operations may result in serious personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property and equipment, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us. damages resulting from an incident involving any of our assets or operations may result in our being named as a defendant in one or more lawsuits asserting potentially substantial claims or in our being assessed potentially substantial fines by governmental authorities. in addition, we operate in and adjacent to environmentally sensitive waters where tanker, pipeline, rail car and refined product transportation and storage operations are closely regulated by federal, state and local agencies and monitored by environmental interest groups. certain of our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks by tanker or barge. transportation and storage of crude oil, other feedstocks and refined products over and adjacent to water involves inherent risk and subjects us to the provisions of the opa-90 and state laws in u.s. coastal and great lakes states and states bordering inland waterways on which we operate, as well as international laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. if we are unable to promptly and adequately contain any accident or discharge involving tankers, pipelines, rail cars or above ground storage tanks transporting or storing crude oil, other feedstocks or refined products, we may be subject to substantial liability. in addition, the service providers we have contracted to aid us in a discharge response may be unavailable due to weather conditions, governmental regulations or other local or global events. international, federal or state rulings could divert our response resources to other global events. we do not insure against all potential losses, and, therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected liabilities and increased costs. we maintain insurance coverage in amounts we believe to be prudent against many, but not all, potential liabilities arising from operating hazards. uninsured liabilities arising from operating hazards, including explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases, cybersecurity breaches or other incidents involving our assets or operations, could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. marine vessel charter agreements may not provide complete indemnity for oil spills, and any marine charterer's liability insurance we carry may not cover all losses. historically, we also have maintained insurance coverage for physical damage and resulting business interruption to our major facilities, with significant self-insured retentions. in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance of the types and amounts we desire at reasonable rates. we rely on the performance of our information technology systems, and the interruption or failure of any information technology system, including an interruption or failure due to a cybersecurity breach, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are heavily dependent on our information technology systems, including our network infrastructure and cloud applications, for the safe and effective operation of our business. we rely on such systems to process, transmit and store electronic information, including financial records and personally identifiable information such as employee, customer, investor and payroll data, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including our supply chain, pipeline operations, gathering and processing operations, retail sales, credit card payments and authorizations at our retail outlets, financial transactions, banking and numerous other processes and transactions. our systems and infrastructure are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources including natural disasters, malware, power failures, cyber-attacks and other events. we also face various other cybersecurity threats from criminal hackers, state-sponsored intrusion, industrial espionage and employee malfeasance, including threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable. certain vendors have access to sensitive information, including personally 23 table of contents identifiable customer, investor and employee data and a breakdown of their technology systems or infrastructure as a result of a cyber-attack or otherwise could result in unauthorized disclosure of such information. our cybersecurity protections, infrastructure protection technologies, disaster recovery plans and employee training may not be sufficient to defend us against all unauthorized attempts to access our information. we have been and may in the future be subject to attempts to gain unauthorized access to our computer network and systems. to date, the impacts of prior events have not had a material adverse effect on us. any cybersecurity incident could result in theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential financial and other data, intellectual property, customer awards or loyalty points; give rise to remediation or other expenses; expose us to liability under federal and state laws; reduce our customers' willingness to do business with us; disrupt the services we provide to customers; and subject us to litigation and legal liability under federal and state laws. any of such results could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. competition in our industry is intense, and very aggressive competition could adversely impact our business. we compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. competitors with integrated operations with exploration and production resources and broader access to resources may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions and to bear the risks inherent in the refining industry. for example, competitors that engage in exploration and production of crude oil may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. we also face strong competition in the market for the retail sale of transportation fuels and merchandise. our competitors include outlets owned or operated by fully integrated major oil companies or their dealers or jobbers, and other well-recognized national or regional retail outlets, often selling transportation fuels and merchandise at very competitive prices. several non-traditional transportation fuel retailers such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants are in the retail transportation fuels business. these non-traditional transportation fuels retailers have obtained a significant share of the transportation fuels market and we expect their market share to grow. because of their diversity, integration of operations, experienced management and significant financial resources, these companies may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions or levels of low or no profitability in the retail segment of the market. in addition, these retailers may use promotional pricing or discounts, both at the pump and in the store, to encourage in-store merchandise sales. these activities by our competitors could pressure us to offer similar discounts, adversely affecting our profit margins. additionally, the loss of market share by our convenience stores to these and other retailers relating to either transportation fuels or merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil and refined products. we utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil and refined products to and from our refineries. in addition to our own operational risks, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines, railways or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations or third-party actions. in particular, pipelines or railroads provide a nearly exclusive form of transportation of crude oil to, or refined products from, some of our refineries. a prolonged interruption, material reduction or cessation of service of such a pipeline or railway, whether due to private party or governmental action or other reason, or any other prolonged disruption of the ability of the trucks, pipelines, railways or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products to or from one or more of our refineries, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 24 table of contents our investments in joint ventures decrease our ability to manage risk. we conduct some of our operations through joint ventures in which we share control over certain economic and business interests with our joint venture partners. our joint venture partners may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals and interests or may be unable to meet their obligations. failure by us, or an entity in which we have an interest, to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our joint ventures and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our inventory risk management activities may result in substantial derivative variability or losses. we enter into derivative transactions to manage the risks from changes in the prices of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and other feedstocks associated with our physical inventories and future production, and these transactions may result in substantial derivatives variability or losses, which could increase the volatility of our earnings. we manage price risk on inventories above or below our target levels to minimize the impact commodity price fluctuations have on our earnings and cash flows. consequently, our results may fluctuate significantly from one reporting period to the next depending on commodity price fluctuations and our relative physical inventory positions. these transactions may also expose us to the risk of financial loss. for example, if our production is less than we anticipated at the time we entered into a hedge agreement or if a counterparty to our hedge agreement fails to perform its obligations under its agreement, we may suffer a financial loss. we have significant debt obligations; therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed by a deterioration of our credit profile, a decrease in debt capacity or unsecured commercial credit available to us, or by factors adversely affecting credit markets generally. at december 31, 2019 , our total debt obligations for borrowed money and finance lease obligations were $29.28 billion , including $20.12 billion of obligations of mplx and its subsidiaries. we may incur substantial additional debt obligations in the future. our indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could have material adverse consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends and other purposes. a decrease in our debt or commercial credit capacity, including unsecured credit extended by third-party suppliers, or a deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit. our credit rating is determined by independent credit rating agencies. we cannot provide assurance that any of our credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances so warrant. on november 1, 2019, moody's announced it had changed its outlook for mpc's and mplx's credit ratings from stable to negative following the announcement of the planned speedway spinoff and midstream review. the planned speedway spinoff and midstream review could be factors causing or contributing to a future determination by one or more of the rating agencies to lower mpc's or mplx's credit rating. any changes in our credit capacity or credit profile could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have a trade receivables securitization facility that provides liquidity of up to $750 million depending on the amount of eligible domestic trade accounts receivables. in periods of lower prices, we may not have sufficient eligible accounts receivables to support full availability of this facility. 25 table of contents uncertainty relating to the calculation of libor and other reference rates and their potential discontinuance may adversely affect interest expense related to our outstanding debt. national and international regulators and law enforcement agencies have conducted investigations into a number of rates or indices, which are deemed to be reference rates. actions by such regulators and law enforcement agencies may result in changes to the manner in which certain reference rates are determined, their discontinuance or the establishment of alternative reference rates. in particular, it appears highly likely that libor will be discontinued or modified by the end of 2021. at this time, it is not possible to predict the effect that these developments, any discontinuance, modification or other reforms to libor or any other reference rate, or the establishment of alternative reference rates, may have on libor, other benchmarks or floating rate indebtedness. uncertainty as to the nature of such potential discontinuance, modification, alternative reference rates or other reforms may materially adversely affect the trading market for securities linked to such benchmarks. furthermore, the use of alternative reference rates or other reforms could cause the market value of, the applicable interest rate on and the amount of interest paid on our floating rate indebtedness to be materially different than expected and could materially adversely impact our ability to refinance such floating rate indebtedness or raise future indebtedness on a cost effective basis. historic or current operations could subject us to significant legal liability or restrict our ability to operate. we currently are defending litigation and anticipate we will be required to defend new litigation in the future. our operations, including those of mplx, and those of our predecessors could expose us to litigation and civil claims by private plaintiffs for alleged damages related to contamination of the environment or personal injuries caused by releases of hazardous substances from our facilities, products liability, consumer credit or privacy laws, product pricing or antitrust laws or any other laws or regulations that apply to our operations. while an adverse outcome in most litigation matters would not be expected to be material to us, in class-action litigation, large classes of plaintiffs may allege damages relating to extended periods of time or other alleged facts and circumstances that could increase the amount of potential damages. attorneys general and other government officials may pursue litigation in which they seek to recover civil damages from companies on behalf of a state or its citizens for a variety of claims, including violation of consumer protection and product pricing laws or natural resources damages. we are defending litigation of that type and anticipate that we will be required to defend new litigation of that type in the future. if we are not able to successfully defend such litigation, it may result in liability to our company that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition to substantial liability, plaintiffs in litigation may also seek injunctive relief which, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a portion of our workforce is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. approximately 4,650 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. of these employees, approximately 190 employees at our st. paul park refinery are covered by a collective bargaining agreement scheduled to expire on december 31, 2020. approximately 280 employees at our el paso refinery are covered by a collective bargaining agreement scheduled to expire in april 2021. approximately 3,425 employees at our anacortes, canton, catlettsburg, galveston bay, los angeles, mandan, martinez and salt lake city refineries are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are due to expire in early 2022. the remaining 750 hourly represented employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with expiration dates ranging from 2021 to 2024. these contracts may be renewed at an increased cost to us. in addition, we have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, work stoppages as a result of labor disagreements. any prolonged work stoppages disrupting operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, california requires refinery owners to pay prevailing wages to contract craft workers and restricts refiners' ability to hire qualified employees to a limited pool of applicants. legislation or changes in regulations could result in labor shortages, higher labor costs, and an increased risk that contract employees become joint employees, which could trigger bargaining issues, employment discrimination liability issues as well as wage and benefit consequences, especially during critical maintenance and construction periods. 26 table of contents one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a master limited partnership, which may involve a greater exposure to certain legal liabilities than existed under our historic business operations. one of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of mplx, a master limited partnership. our control of the general partner of mplx may increase the possibility of claims of breach of fiduciary duties, including claims of conflicts of interest. any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if foreign investment in us or mplx exceeds certain levels, mplx could be prohibited from operating inland river vessels, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the shipping act of 1916 and merchant marine act of 1920 (collectively, the maritime laws ), generally require that vessels engaged in u.s. coastwise trade be owned by u.s. citizens. among other requirements to establish citizenship, entities that own such vessels must be owned at least 75 percent by u.s. citizens. if we fail to maintain compliance with the maritime laws, mplx would be prohibited from operating vessels in the u.s. inland waters. such a prohibition could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to certain continuing contingent liabilities of marathon oil pursuant to agreements we entered into in connection with our spinoff from marathon oil, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. although our spinoff from marathon oil occurred in mid-2011, certain liabilities of marathon oil could become our obligations. for example, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with marathon oil that includes provisions governing the relationship between our company and marathon oil following our spinoff. among other things, the separation and distribution agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our downstream business activities, whether incurred prior to or after our spinoff, as well as certain obligations of marathon oil assumed by us. our obligations to indemnify marathon oil under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement could subject us to substantial liabilities. marathon oil also agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. however, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities retained by marathon oil, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from marathon oil will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, that marathon oil will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations or that marathon oil's insurers will cover us for liabilities associated with occurrences prior to our spinoff. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from marathon oil or its insurers any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. such liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. a significant decrease in oil and natural gas production in mplx's areas of operation, whether due to sustained declines in oil, natural gas and ngl prices, natural declines in well production, or otherwise, may adversely affect mplx's business, results of operations and financial condition, and could reduce its ability to make distributions to us. a significant portion of mplx's operations are dependent on the continued availability of natural gas and crude oil production. the production from oil and natural gas reserves and wells owned by its producer customers will naturally decline over time, which means that mplx's cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. to maintain or increase throughput levels and the utilization rate of mplx's facilities, mplx must continually obtain new oil, natural gas, ngl and refined product supplies, which depend in part on the level of successful drilling activity near its facilities, its ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells and its ability to expand its system capacity as needed. we have no control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of mplx's operations, the amount of reserves associated with the wells or the rate at which production from a well will decline. in addition, we have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, drilling costs per mcf or barrel, demand for hydrocarbons, operational challenges, access to downstream markets, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations and the availability and cost of capital. because of these factors, even if oil or natural gas reserves are known to exist in areas served by mplx assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. reductions in 27 table of contents exploration or production activity in mplx's areas of operations could lead to reduced throughput on its pipelines and utilization rates of its facilities. decreases in energy prices can decrease drilling activity, production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. the prices for oil, natural gas and ngls depend upon factors beyond our control, including global and local demand, production levels, changes in interstate pipeline gas quality specifications, imports and exports, seasonality and weather conditions, economic and political conditions domestically and internationally and governmental regulations. sustained periods of low prices could result in producers also significantly curtailing or limiting their oil and gas drilling operations which could substantially delay the production and delivery of volumes of oil, natural gas and ngls to mplx's facilities and adversely affect their revenues and cash available for distribution to us. this impact may also be exacerbated due to the extent of mplx's commodity-based contracts, which are more directly impacted by changes in natural gas and ngl prices than its fee-based contracts due to frac spread exposure and may result in operating losses when natural gas becomes more expensive on a btu equivalent basis than ngl products. in addition, the purchase and resale of natural gas and ngls in the ordinary course exposes our midstream operations to volatility in natural gas or ngl prices due to the potential difference in the time of the purchases and sales and the potential difference in the price associated with each transaction, and direct exposure may also occur naturally as a result of production processes. also, the significant volatility in natural gas, ngl and oil prices could adversely impact mplx's unit price, thereby increasing its distribution yield and cost of capital. such impacts could adversely impact mplx's ability to execute its long term organic growth projects, satisfy obligations to its customers and make distributions to unitholders at intended levels, and may also result in non-cash impairments of long-lived assets or goodwill or other-than-temporary non-cash impairments of our equity method investments. significant stockholders may attempt to effect changes at our company or acquire control over our company, which could impact the pursuit of business strategies and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our stockholders may from time to time engage in proxy solicitations, advance stockholder proposals or otherwise attempt to effect changes or acquire control over our company. campaigns by stockholders to effect changes at publicly traded companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase short-term stockholder value through actions such as financial restructuring, increased debt, special dividends, stock repurchases or sales of assets or the entire company. responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our board of directors and senior management from the management of our operations and the pursuit of our business strategies. as a result, stockholder campaigns could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our operations could be disrupted if we are unable to maintain or obtain real property rights required for our business. we do not own all of the land on which certain of our assets are located, particularly our midstream assets, but rather obtain the rights to construct and operate such assets on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. therefore, we are subject to the possibility of more burdensome terms and increased costs to retain necessary land use if our leases, rights-of-way or other property rights lapse, terminate or are reduced or it is determined that we do not have valid leases, rights-of-way or other property rights. any loss of or reduction in these rights, including loss or reduction due to legal, governmental or other actions or difficulty renewing leases, right-of-way agreements or permits on satisfactory terms or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. certain of our facilities are located on native american tribal lands and are subject to various federal and tribal approvals and regulations, which may increase our costs and delay or prevent our efforts to conduct planned operations. various federal agencies within the u.s. department of the interior, particularly the bureau of indian affairs, bureau of land management, and the office of natural resources revenue, along with each native american tribe, regulate natural gas and oil operations on native american tribal lands, including drilling and production requirements and environmental standards. in addition, each native american tribe is a sovereign nation having the right to enforce laws and regulations and to grant approvals independent from federal, state and local statutes and regulations. these tribal laws and regulations include various taxes, fees, requirements to employ native american tribal members and other conditions that apply to operators and contractors 28 table of contents conducting operations on native american tribal lands. persons conducting operations on tribal lands are generally subject to the native american tribal court system. in addition, if our relationships with any of the relevant native american tribes were to deteriorate, we could face significant risks to our ability to continue operations on native american tribal lands. one or more of these factors may increase our cost of doing business on native american tribal lands and impact the viability of, or prevent or delay our ability to conduct operations on such lands. risks relating to strategic transactions our proposed spinoff of speedway may not be completed on the currently contemplated timeline or at all and may not achieve the intended benefits. on october 31, 2019, we announced our intention to separate speedway into an independent, publicly traded company by the end of 2020. this transaction is subject to certain conditions, including final approval by our board of directors, receipt of customary assurances regarding the intended tax-free nature of the transaction and the filing and effectiveness of a registration statement with the sec. unanticipated developments, including possible delays in obtaining various regulatory approvals or clearances, uncertainty of the financial markets and challenges in establishing infrastructure or processes, could delay or prevent the proposed spinoff or cause the proposed spinoff to occur on terms or conditions that are less favorable or different than expected. even if the spinoff is completed, we may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits from the spinoff. expenses incurred to accomplish the proposed spinoff may be significantly higher than what we currently anticipate. executing the proposed spinoff also requires significant time and attention from management, which could distract them from other tasks in operating our business. following the proposed spinoff, the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly traded companies may not be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock would have been had the proposed spinoff not occurred. if the proposed speedway spinoff is completed, our diversification of revenue sources will diminish due to the separation of the speedway business, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be subject to increased volatility as a result. if the proposed spinoff of speedway were to fail to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, mpc and mpc shareholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities. the speedway spinoff is subject to the receipt of customary assurances regarding the intended tax-free nature of the transactions for u.s. federal income tax purposes. notwithstanding receipt of an internal revenue service ( irs ) private letter ruling and/or the opinion(s) of tax advisors, the irs could determine that the distribution and/or certain related transactions should be treated as taxable transactions for u.s. federal income tax purposes if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions, or undertakings upon which the irs private letter ruling or the opinion(s) of tax advisors were based are inaccurate or have not been complied with. in addition, an irs private letter ruling would not address all of the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution, together with certain related transactions, qualifies as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the opinion(s) of tax advisors represent the judgment of such tax advisors and are not binding on the irs or any court, and the irs or a court may disagree with the conclusions in the opinion(s) of tax advisors. accordingly, notwithstanding receipt by mpc of an irs private letter ruling and/or the opinion(s) of tax advisors, there can be no assurance that the irs will not assert that the distribution and/or certain related transactions do not qualify for tax-free treatment for u.s. federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. in the event the irs were to prevail with such challenge, speedway, as well as mpc and mpc shareholders, could be subject to significant u.s. federal income tax liability. if the distribution were to fail to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code (the code ), in general, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, mpc would recognize taxable gain as if it had sold the speedway common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and mpc shareholders who receive speedway common stock in the distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. even if the distribution were to otherwise qualify as a tax-free transaction under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code, it may result in taxable gain to mpc (but not its shareholders) under section 355(e) of the code if the distribution were deemed to be part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which one or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, shares representing a 50 percent or greater interest (by vote or value) in mpc or speedway. for this purpose, any acquisitions of mpc or speedway 29 table of contents shares within the period beginning two years before the distribution and ending two years after the distribution are presumed to be part of such a plan, although mpc or speedway may be able to rebut that presumption (including by qualifying for one or more safe harbors under applicable treasury regulations). if the irs were to determine that acquisitions of mpc or speedway stock, either before or after the distribution, were part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the distribution, such determination could result in significant tax liabilities to mpc. our ongoing review of other strategic alternatives for our midstream business may pose additional risks to our business. our board of directors has formed a special committee to evaluate strategies to enhance shareholder value through a review of our midstream business, which we primarily conduct through mplx. our exploration of strategic alternatives, including any uncertainty created by this process, involves a number of risks: significant fluctuations in our stock price could occur in response to developments relating to the strategic review process or market speculation regarding any such developments; we may encounter difficulties in hiring, retaining and motivating key personnel during this process or as a result of uncertainties generated by this process or any developments or actions relating to it; we may incur substantial increases in general and administrative expense associated with increased legal fees and the need to retain and compensate third-party advisors; and we may experience difficulties in preserving the commercially sensitive information that may need to be disclosed to third parties during this process or in connection with an assessment of our strategic alternatives. the strategic review process also requires significant time and attention from management, which could distract them from other tasks in operating our business. there can be no assurance that this process will result in the pursuit or consummation of any strategic transaction. the occurrence of any one or more of the above risks could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. significant acquisitions, if any, in the future will involve the integration of new assets or businesses and present substantial risks that could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. any significant future transactions involving the addition of new assets or businesses will present potential risks, which may include, among others: inaccurate assumptions about future synergies, revenues, capital expenditures and operating costs; an inability to successfully integrate assets or businesses we acquire; a decrease in our liquidity resulting from using a portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity under our revolving credit agreement to finance transactions; a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance transactions; the assumption of unknown environmental and other liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and the incurrence of other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. 30 table of contents risks relating to the andeavor acquisition the andeavor acquisition may not be accretive, and may be dilutive, to mpc's earnings per share and cash flow from operations per share, which may negatively affect the market price of shares of mpc common stock. the andeavor acquisition may not be accretive, and may be dilutive, to mpc's earnings per share and cash flow from operations per share. earnings per share and cash flow from operations per share in the future are based on preliminary estimates that may materially change. in addition, future events and conditions could decrease or delay any accretion, result in dilution or cause greater dilution than is currently expected. any dilution of, or decrease or delay of any accretion to, mpc's earnings per share or cash flow from operations per share could cause the price of mpc's common stock to decline. mpc has incurred and will continue to incur significant costs in connection with the andeavor acquisition, which may be in excess of those anticipated by mpc. mpc has incurred substantial expenses in connection with the andeavor acquisition. mpc expects to continue to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with combining the operations of the two companies and achieving desired synergies. these fees and costs have been, and may continue to be, substantial. additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the two companies' businesses. the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, may not be sufficient to allow mpc to offset integration-related costs over time. these integration costs, as well as other unanticipated costs and expenses, could materially and adversely affect mpc's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. mpc's results may suffer if it does not effectively manage its expanded operations following the andeavor acquisition. mpc's success depends, in part, on its ability to manage its expansion following the andeavor acquisition, which poses numerous risks and uncertainties, including the need to integrate the operations and business of andeavor into its existing business in an efficient and timely manner, to combine systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with customers, vendors and business partners. mpc may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the andeavor acquisition. the success of the andeavor acquisition depends, in part, on mpc's ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining mpc's and andeavor's businesses, including the annual gross, run-rate, commercial and corporate synergies that mpc expects to realize within the first three years after the combination. the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the andeavor acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, may take longer to realize than expected, may require more non-recurring costs and expenditures to realize than expected or could have other adverse effects. there could be potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen expenses associated with the andeavor acquisition that were not discovered in the course of performing due diligence. we have recorded goodwill and other intangible assets that could become further impaired and result in material non-cash charges to our results of operations. we accounted for the andeavor and other acquisitions using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires that the assets and liabilities of the acquired business be recorded to our balance sheet at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. any excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the acquired net assets is recognized as goodwill. as of december 31, 2019 , our balance sheet reflected $20.0 billion and $3.0 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets, respectively. these amounts include goodwill and other intangible assets of $17.3 billion and $2.8 billion , respectively, recognized in connection with the andeavor acquisition. as a part of our annual impairment review for goodwill, mplx recorded approximately $1.2 billion of impairment expense in the fourth quarter of 2019. to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets becomes further impaired, we may be required to incur additional material non-cash charges relating to such impairment. our operating results may be significantly impacted from both the impairment and the underlying trends in the business that triggered the impairment. 31 table of contents risks relating to our industry meeting the requirements of evolving environmental or other laws or regulations may reduce our refining and marketing margin and may result in substantial capital expenditures and operating costs that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. various laws and regulations are expected to impose increasingly stringent and costly requirements on our operations, which may reduce our refining and marketing margin. laws and regulations expected to become more stringent relate to the following: the emission or discharge of materials into the environment, solid and hazardous waste management, the regulatory classification of materials presently used in our business, pollution prevention, greenhouse gas emissions, climate change, characteristics and composition of transportation fuels, including the quantity of renewable fuels that must be blended into transportation fuels, public and employee safety and health, inherently safer technology, and facility security. the specific impact of laws and regulations on us and our competitors may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of operating facilities, marketing areas, crude oil and feedstock sources, production processes and subsequent judicial interpretation of such laws and regulations. as a result of these laws and regulations, we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures to modify operations, install pollution control equipment, perform site cleanups or curtail operations. such expenditures could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for additional information on environmental laws and regulations that may affect us, see item 1. business - environmental matters above. federal, state and local legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could delay or impede producer's gas production or result in reduced volumes available for our midstream assets to gather, process and fractionate. while we do not conduct hydraulic fracturing operations, we do provide gathering, processing and fractionation services with respect to natural gas and natural gas liquids produced by our customers as a result of such operations. if federal, state or local laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such legal requirements could make it more difficult to complete natural gas wells in shale formations and increase producers' costs of compliance. climate change and greenhouse gas emission regulation could affect our operations, energy consumption patterns and regulatory obligations, any of which could affect our results of operations and financial condition. currently, multiple legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) and other emissions are in various phases of consideration, promulgation or implementation. these include actions to develop international, federal, regional or statewide programs, which could require reductions in our greenhouse gas or other emissions, establish a carbon tax and decrease the demand for our refined products. requiring reductions in these emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments. for example, in 2017, the california state legislature adopted ab 398, which provides direction and parameters on utilizing cap and trade after 2020 to meet the 40% reduction target from 1990 levels by 2030 specified in sb 32. compliance with the cap and trade program is demonstrated through a market-based credit system. additionally, the carb is now exploring the potential for additional greenhouse gas reductions by 2045 via a yet undefined carbon neutrality standard. other states are proposing, or have already promulgated, low 32 table of contents carbon fuel standards or similar initiatives to reduce emissions from the transportation sector. if we are unable to pass the costs of compliance on to our customers, sufficient credits are unavailable for purchase, we have to pay a significantly higher price for credits, or if we are otherwise unable to meet our compliance obligation, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. regional and state climate change and air emissions goals and regulatory programs are complex, subject to change and considerable uncertainty due to a number of factors including technological feasibility, legal challenges and potential changes in federal policy. increasing concerns about climate change and carbon intensity have also resulted in societal concerns and a number of international and national measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions. additional stricter measures and investor pressure can be expected in the future and any of these changes may have a material adverse impact on our business or financial condition. international climate change-related efforts, such as the 2015 united nations conference on climate change, which led to the creation of the paris agreement, may impact the regulatory framework of states whose policies directly influence our present and future operations. though the united states has announced its intention to withdraw from the paris agreement, u.s. climate change strategy and implementation of that strategy through legislation and regulation may change under future administrations; therefore, the impact to our industry and operations due to greenhouse gas regulation is unknown at this time. we could also face increased climate related litigation with respect to our operations or products. governmental and other entities in california, new york, maryland and rhode island have filed lawsuits against coal, gas, oil and petroleum companies, including the company. the lawsuits allege damages as a result of climate change and the plaintiffs are seeking unspecified damages and abatement under various tort theories. similar lawsuits may be filed in other jurisdictions. there remains a high degree of uncertainty regarding the ultimate outcome of these lawsuits, as well as their potential effect on the company's business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. regulatory and other requirements concerning the transportation of crude oil and other commodities by rail may cause increases in transportation costs or limit the amount of crude oil that we can transport by rail. we rely on a variety of systems to transport crude oil, including rail. rail transportation is regulated by federal, state and local authorities. new regulations or changes in existing regulations could result in increased compliance expenditures. for example, in 2015, the u.s. department of transportation issued new standards and regulations applicable to crude-by-rail transportation (enhanced tank car standards and operational controls for high-hazard flammable trains). these or other regulations that require the reduction of volatile or flammable constituents in crude oil that is transported by rail, change the design or standards for rail cars used to transport the crude oil we purchase, change the routing or scheduling of trains carrying crude oil, or require any other changes that detrimentally affect the economics of delivering north american crude oil by rail could increase the time required to move crude oil from production areas to our refineries, increase the cost of rail transportation and decrease the efficiency of shipments of crude oil by rail within our operations. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. severe weather events and other climate conditions may adversely affect our facilities and ongoing operations. we have mature systems in place to manage potential acute physical risks, such as floods, hurricane-force winds, wildfires and snowstorms, and potential chronic physical risks, such as higher ocean levels. if any such events were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. specifically, where appropriate, we are hardening and modernizing assets against weather damage and ensuring we have resiliency measures in place, such as storm-specific readiness plans. we have incurred and will continue to incur additional costs to protect our assets and operations from such physical risks and employ the evolving technologies and processes available to mitigate such risks. to the extent such severe weather events or other climate conditions increase in frequency and severity, we may be required to modify operations and incur costs that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 33 table of contents plans we may have to expand existing assets or construct new assets are subject to risks associated with societal and political pressures and other forms of opposition to the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels. such risks could adversely impact our business and ability to realize certain growth strategies. our anticipated growth and planned expenditures are based upon the assumption that societal sentiment will continue to enable and existing regulations will remain intact to allow for the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels. a portion of our growth strategy is dependent on our ability to expand existing assets and to construct additional assets. however, policy decisions relating to the production, refining, transportation and marketing of carbon-based fuels are subject to political pressures and the influence and protests of environmental and other special interest groups. one of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new pipelines or the expansion of existing ones. the construction of a new pipeline or the expansion of an existing pipeline, by adding horsepower or pump stations or by adding additional pipelines along existing pipelines, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control. the approval process for storage and transportation projects has become increasingly challenging, due in part to state and local concerns related to pipelines, negative public perception regarding the oil and gas industry, and concerns regarding greenhouse gas emissions downstream of pipeline operations. in addition, government disruptions, such as a u.s. federal government shutdown, may delay or halt the granting and renewal of permits, licenses and other items required by us and our customers to conduct our business. our expansion or construction projects may not be completed on schedule (or at all) or at the budgeted cost. in addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we build a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities (including improvements and repairs to our existing facilities) could adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results, thereby limiting our ability to grow and generate cash flows. large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting project returns. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we produce. such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: denial of or delay in receiving requisite regulatory approvals or permits; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of components or construction materials; adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors or suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or subcontractors. any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our ongoing capital projects. if we were unable to make up the delays associated with such factors or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 34 table of contents the availability of crude oil and increases in crude oil prices may reduce profitability and refining and marketing margins. the profitability of our operations depends largely on the difference between the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks we refine and the selling prices we obtain for refined products. a portion of our crude oil is purchased from various foreign national oil companies, production companies and trading companies, including suppliers from canada, the middle east and various other international locations. the market for crude oil and other feedstocks is largely a world market. we are, therefore, subject to the attendant political, geographic and economic risks of such a market. if one or more major supply sources were temporarily or permanently eliminated, we believe adequate alternative supplies of crude oil would be available, but it is possible we would be unable to find alternative sources of supply. if we are unable to obtain adequate crude oil volumes or are able to obtain such volumes only at unfavorable prices, our operations, sales of refined products and refining and marketing margins could be adversely affected, materially and adversely impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to risks arising from our non-u.s. operations and generally to worldwide political and economic developments. we operate and sell some of our products in non-u.s. jurisdictions, particularly in mexico, south america and asia. our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted by disruptions in any of these markets, including economic instability, restrictions on the transfer of funds, duties and tariffs, transportation delays, difficulty in enforcing contractual provisions, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest, security issues involving key personnel and changing regulatory and political environments. global outbreaks of infectious diseases, such as the coronavirus first detected in wuhan, china, could affect demand for refined products and economic conditions generally. in addition, if trade relationships deteriorate with these countries, if existing trade agreements are modified or terminated, new economic sanctions relevant to such jurisdictions are passed or if taxes, border adjustments or tariffs make trading with these countries more costly, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are required to comply with u.s. and international laws and regulations, including those involving anti-bribery, anti-corruption and anti-money laundering. for example, the foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws and regulations prohibit improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or gaining any business advantage. our compliance policies and programs mandate compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws but may not be completely effective in ensuring our compliance. our training and compliance program and our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from violations committed by our employees or agents. actual or alleged violations of these laws could disrupt our business and cause us to incur significant legal expenses, and could result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. more broadly, political and economic factors in global markets could impact crude oil and other feedstock supplies and could have a material adverse effect on us in other ways. hostilities in the middle east or the occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economies of the u.s. and other developed countries. a lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could cause our revenues and margins to decline and limit our future growth prospects. these risks could lead to increased volatility in prices for refined products, ngls and natural gas. additionally, these risks could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult or costly for us to access capital and to obtain the insurance coverage that we consider adequate. additionally, tax policy, legislative or regulatory action and commercial restrictions could reduce our operating profitability. for example, the u.s. government could prevent or restrict exports of refined products, ngls, natural gas or the conduct of business in or with certain foreign countries. in addition, foreign countries could restrict imports, investments or commercial transactions. 35 table of contents compliance with and changes in tax laws could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal and state income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales and use, payroll, franchise, withholding and property taxes. new tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations could result in increased expenditures by us for tax liabilities in the future and could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, many tax liabilities are subject to periodic audits by taxing authorities, and such audits could subject us to interest and penalties. terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities or that impact our customers or the markets we serve could adversely affect our business. the u.s. government has issued warnings that energy assets in general, including the nation's refining, pipeline and terminal infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. the threat of terrorist attacks has subjected our operations to increased risks. any future terrorist attacks on our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. similarly, any future terrorist attacks that severely disrupt the markets we serve could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. risks relating to ownership of our common stock provisions in our corporate governance documents could operate to delay or prevent a change in control of our company, dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our capital stock or affect its liquidity. the existence of some provisions within our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us that a stockholder may consider favorable. these include provisions: providing that our board of directors fixes the number of members of the board; providing for the division of our board of directors into three classes with staggered terms; providing that only our board of directors may fill board vacancies; limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders; prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring stockholder action to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; establishing supermajority vote requirements for certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation; providing that our directors may only be removed for cause; authorizing a large number of shares of common stock that are not yet issued, which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of our management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us; and authorizing the issuance of blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt. we believe certain of these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors time to assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. however, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition. 36 table of contents our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. the terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. for example, we could grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our board of directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock. finally, to facilitate compliance with the maritime laws, our restated certificate of incorporation limits the aggregate percentage ownership by non-u.s. citizens of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock to 23 percent of the outstanding shares. we may prohibit transfers that would cause ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock by non-u.s. citizens to exceed 23 percent. our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to effect any and all measures necessary or desirable to monitor and limit foreign ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock. these limitations could have an adverse impact on the liquidity of the market for our common stock if holders are unable to transfer shares to non-u.s. citizens due to the limitations on ownership by non-u.s. citizens. any such limitation on the liquidity of the market for our common stock could adversely impact the market price of our common stock. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. 37 table of contents item 2. properties we believe that our properties and facilities are adequate for our operations and that our facilities are adequately maintained. see the following sections for details of our assets by segment. refining &amp; marketing the table below sets forth the location and crude oil refining capacity for each of our refineries as of december 31, 2019 . refining throughput can exceed crude oil refining capacity due to the processing of other charge and blendstocks in addition to crude oil and the timing of planned turnaround and major maintenance activity. refinery crude oil refining capacity ( mbpcd ) gulf coast region galveston bay, texas city, texas 585 garyville, louisiana 578 subtotal gulf coast region 1,163 mid-continent region catlettsburg, kentucky 291 robinson, illinois 253 detroit, michigan 140 el paso, texas 131 st. paul park, minnesota 103 canton, ohio 95 mandan, north dakota 71 salt lake city, utah 63 gallup, new mexico 27 dickinson, north dakota 19 subtotal mid-continent region 1,193 west coast region los angeles, california 363 martinez, california 161 anacortes, washington 119 kenai, alaska 68 subtotal west coast region 711 3,067 the following table sets forth the location and capacity of our biofuel production facility as of december 31, 2019 . location capacity (gallons per year) cincinnati, ohio 80 million 38 table of contents the following table sets forth the approximate number of locations where independent entrepreneurs maintain branded outlets, marketed under marathon, shell, mobil and other brands, as of december 31, 2019 . location number of branded outlets alabama 380 alaska 44 arizona 94 california 88 colorado 12 district of columbia 2 florida 644 georgia 346 idaho 98 illinois 213 indiana 651 iowa 4 kentucky 521 louisiana 27 maryland 44 mexico 186 michigan 792 minnesota 292 mississippi 100 nevada 12 new mexico 46 new york 43 north carolina 204 north dakota 104 ohio 812 oregon 44 pennsylvania 69 south carolina 116 south dakota 29 tennessee 403 texas 6 utah 96 virginia 154 washington 63 west virginia 106 wisconsin 52 wyoming 4 total 6,901 39 table of contents the following table sets forth details about our refining &amp; marketing owned and operated terminals as of december 31, 2019 . see the midstream - mplx section for information with respect to mplx owned and operated terminals. owned and operated terminals number of terminals tank storage capacity ( thousand barrels ) light products terminals: new york 1 316 ohio 1 67 subtotal light products terminals 2 383 asphalt terminals: florida 1 263 illinois 2 82 indiana 2 423 kentucky 4 547 louisiana 1 54 michigan 1 12 new york 1 365 ohio 4 1,305 pennsylvania 1 451 tennessee 2 482 subtotal asphalt terminals 19 3,984 total owned and operated terminals 21 4,367 40 table of contents retail our retail segment sells transportation fuels and merchandise through convenience stores it owns and operates, primarily under the speedway brand, and sells transportation fuels through long-term fuel supply contracts to direct dealer locations, primarily under the arco brand. the following table sets forth the number of company-owned convenience stores by state as of december 31, 2019 . location number of convenience stores alabama 1 alaska 31 arizona 91 california 491 colorado 12 connecticut 1 delaware 4 florida 212 georgia 9 idaho 7 illinois 129 indiana 305 kentucky 147 massachusetts 108 michigan 306 minnesota 203 nevada 9 new hampshire 12 new jersey 66 new mexico 120 new york 330 north carolina 275 ohio 488 oregon 13 pennsylvania 121 rhode island 19 south carolina 52 south dakota 1 tennessee 52 texas 31 utah 30 virginia 62 washington 32 west virginia 56 wisconsin 69 wyoming 3 total 3,898 41 table of contents the following table sets forth the number of direct dealer locations by state as of december 31, 2019 . location number of locations alaska 1 arizona 69 california 935 nevada 62 washington 1 total 1,068 midstream - mplx the following tables set forth certain information relating to mplx's crude oil, refined products and water pipeline systems and storage assets as of december 31, 2019 . pipeline system or storage asset diameter ( inches ) length ( miles ) capacity (a) total crude oil pipeline systems (b)(c)(d) 2" - 48" 7,917 various total refined products pipeline systems (b)(e)(f) 4" - 36" 5,672 various water pipeline systems: belfield water system 4" - 8" 103 20 mbpd green river water system 3" - 4" 12 15 mbpd total 115 barge docks (thousand barrels) 2,910 storage assets ( thousand barrels ): refinery logistics - tank storage (g) 100,670 mt. airy terminal 4,099 tank farms 26,264 caverns 4,709 (a) all capacities reflect 100 percent of the pipeline systems' and barge docks' average capacity in thousands of barrels per day and 100 percent of the available storage capacity of our caverns and tank farms in thousands of barrels. (b) includes pipelines leased from third parties. (c) includes approximately 1,921 miles of pipeline in which mplx has a 9.2 percent ownership interest, 168 miles of pipeline in which mplx has a 35.0 percent ownership interest, 48 miles of pipeline in which mplx has a 40.7 percent ownership interest, 57 miles of pipeline in which mplx has a 58.5 percent ownership interest, 118 miles of pipeline in which mplx has a 67.0 percent ownership interest and 975 miles of pipeline in which mplx has a 17.0 percent ownership interest. also includes approximately 1,830 miles of refined product pipeline in which we have a 24.5 percent ownership interest and 87 miles of refined product pipeline in which we have a 65.16 percent ownership interest. (d) includes approximately 399 miles of inactive pipeline. (e) includes approximately 1,830 miles of pipeline in which mplx has a 24.5 percent ownership interest and 87 miles of pipeline in which mplx has a 65.16 percent ownership interest. (f) includes approximately 232 miles of inactive pipeline. (g) refining logistics assets also include rail racks, truck racks and docks. 42 table of contents the following table sets forth details about mplx owned and operated terminals as of december 31, 2019 . additionally, mplx operates one leased terminal and has partial ownership interest in one terminal. owned and operated terminals number of terminals tank storage capacity ( thousand barrels ) refined products terminals: alabama 2 443 alaska 3 1,310 california 9 5,367 florida 4 3,407 georgia 4 998 idaho 3 988 illinois 4 1,221 indiana 6 3,229 kentucky 6 2,587 louisiana 1 97 michigan 8 2,440 minnesota 1 12 new mexico 4 551 north carolina 4 1,509 north dakota 1 2 ohio 12 3,218 pennsylvania 1 390 south carolina 1 371 tennessee 4 1,149 utah 1 44 washington 4 825 west virginia 2 1,587 subtotal light products terminals 85 31,745 asphalt terminals arizona 3 536 california 3 755 minnesota 1 489 nevada (a) 1 252 new mexico 1 6 texas 1 178 subtotal asphalt terminals 10 2,216 total owned and operated terminals 95 33,961 (a) mplx accounts for as an equity method investment. the following table sets forth details about mplx barges and towboats as of december 31, 2019 . class of equipment number in class capacity ( thousand barrels ) inland tank barges (a) 286 7,523 inland towboats 23 n/a (a) all of our barges are double-hulled. 43 table of contents the following tables set forth certain information relating to mplx's consolidated and operated joint venture gas processing facilities, fractionation facilities, natural gas gathering systems, ngl pipelines and natural gas pipelines as of december 31, 2019 . all throughputs and utilizations included are weighted-averages for days in operation. gas processing complexes design throughput capacity ( mmcf/d ) natural gas throughput ( mmcf/d ) (a) utilization of design capacity (a) marcellus shale 6,120 5,248 91 % utica shale 1,325 810 61 % southern appalachia 620 244 39 % southwest (b) 1,887 1,364 79 % bakken 190 151 83 % rockies 1,472 572 39 % total 11,614 8,389 76 % (a) natural gas throughput is a weighted average for days in operation. the utilization of design capacity has been calculated using the weighted average design throughput capacity. (b) centrahoma processing llc's processing capacity of 550 mmcf/d and actual throughput of 272 mmcf/d, that exceeded mplx's 40 percent share of the capacity of 220 mmcf/d, are not included in this table as mplx owns a non-operating interest. fractionation &amp; condensate stabilization complexes design throughput capacity ( mbpd ) ngl throughput ( mbpd ) (a) utilization of design capacity (a) marcellus shale 347 290 84 % utica shale 23 9 39 % southern appalachia 24 12 50 % southwest 11 6 55 % bakken 34 24 83 % rockies 61 4 7 % total 500 345 70 % (a) ngl throughput is a weighted average for days in operation. the utilization of design capacity has been calculated using the weighted average design throughput capacity. de-ethanization complexes design throughput capacity ( mbpd ) ngl throughput ( mbpd ) (a) utilization of design capacity (a) marcellus shale 273 179 72 % utica shale 40 10 25 % southwest 18 9 50 % total 331 198 64 % (a) ngl throughput is a weighted average for days in operation. the utilization of design capacity has been calculated using the weighted average design throughput capacity. 44 table of contents natural gas gathering systems design throughput capacity ( mmcf/d ) natural gas throughput ( mmcf/d ) (a) utilization of design capacity (a) marcellus shale 1,547 1,287 84 % utica shale 3,183 2,200 70 % southwest 2,570 1,628 72 % bakken 194 151 78 % rockies 1,486 701 47 % total 8,980 5,967 69 % (a) natural gas throughput is a weighted average for days in operation. the utilization of design capacity has been calculated using the weighted average design throughput capacity. the following tables set forth certain information relating to mplx's ngl pipelines as of december 31, 2019 . ngl pipelines diameter length (miles) design throughput capacity ( mbpd ) marcellus shale 4" - 20" 399 various utica shale 4" - 12" 119 various southern appalachia 6" - 8" 138 35 southwest (a) 6" 50 39 bakken 8" - 12" 84 80 rockies 8" 10 15 (a) includes 38 miles of inactive pipeline. midstream - mpc-retained assets and investments the following tables set forth certain information related to our crude oil and refined products pipeline systems not owned by mplx. as of december 31, 2019 , we had partial ownership interests in the following pipeline companies. pipeline company diameter ( inches ) length ( miles ) ownership interest operated by mpl crude oil pipeline companies: capline llc 40" 644 33 % yes gray oak pipeline, llc 30 850 25 % no loop (a) 48 48 10 % no total 1,494 refined products pipeline companies: ascension pipeline company llc 16" 32 50 % no centennial pipeline llc (b) 24 -26 796 50 % yes muskegon pipeline llc 10 170 60 % yes wolverine pipe line company 6 -16 796 6 % no total 1,794 (a) represents interest retained by mpc and excludes mplx's 41 percent ownership interest in loop. pipeline mileage is excluded from total as it is included with mplx assets. (b) all system pipeline miles are inactive. 45 table of contents the following table provides information on private crude oil pipelines and private refined products pipelines that we own as of december 31, 2019 . private pipeline systems diameter ( inches ) length ( miles ) capacity ( mbpd ) crude oil pipeline systems: middle ground shoals pipeline 12" 4 11 inactive pipelines 9 n/a total 13 11 refined products pipeline systems: illinois and indiana pipeline systems 4 59 11 texas pipeline systems 8 103 45 inactive pipelines 62 n/a total 224 56 as of december 31, 2019 , we had a partial ownership interest in the following crude oil terminal. terminal ownership interest tank storage capacity ( thousand barrels ) south texas gateway terminal llc (a) 25% tbd (a) the tank storage capacity for this company will be determined when the terminal project is placed into service. the following table sets forth details about the assets held by two ocean vessel joint ventures in which we hold a 50% interest as of december 31, 2019 . class of equipment number in class capacity ( thousand barrels ) jones act product tankers (a) 4 1,320 750 series atb vessels (b) 3 990 (a) represents ownership through our indirect noncontrolling interest in crowley ocean partners. (b) represents ownership through our indirect noncontrolling interest in crowley blue water partners. item 3. legal proceedings we are the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. some of these matters are discussed below. while it is possible that an adverse result in one or more of the lawsuits or proceedings in which we are a defendant could be material to us, based upon current information and our experience as a defendant in other matters, we believe that these lawsuits and proceedings, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. sec matter we have been cooperating with the staff of the sec in connection with a formal investigation regarding andeavor's historical share repurchase activity and an informal investigation regarding mpc's share repurchase activity. the staff of the sec has indicated that it intends to recommend an action with respect to andeavor's historical share repurchase activity. we will continue to fully cooperate with the sec staff in connection with these matters. we are unable to predict the outcome or impact of these investigations on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flow. 46 table of contents litigation in may 2015, the kentucky attorney general filed a lawsuit against our wholly-owned subsidiary, marathon petroleum company lp ( mpc lp ), in the united states district court for the western district of kentucky asserting claims under federal and state antitrust statutes, the kentucky consumer protection act, and state common law. the complaint, as amended in july 2015, alleges that mpc lp used deed restrictions, supply agreements with customers and exchange agreements with competitors to unreasonably restrain trade in areas within kentucky and seeks declaratory relief, unspecified damages, civil penalties, restitution and disgorgement of profits. at this stage, the ultimate outcome of this litigation remains uncertain, and neither the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome nor the ultimate liability, if any, can be determined, and we are unable to estimate a reasonably possible loss (or range of loss) for this matter. we intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. environmental proceedings governmental and other entities in california, new york, maryland and rhode island have filed lawsuits against coal, gas, oil and petroleum companies, including the company. the lawsuits allege damages as a result of climate change and the plaintiffs are seeking unspecified damages and abatement under various tort theories. similar lawsuits may be filed in other jurisdictions. at this early stage, the ultimate outcome of these matters remain uncertain, and neither the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome nor the ultimate liability, if any, can be determined. anacortes refinery the naphtha hydrotreater unit at the anacortes refinery was involved in a fire in april 2010, which fatally injured seven employees and rendered the unit inoperable. the washington state department of labor &amp; industries ( l&amp;i ) investigated the incident and issued a citation in october 2010 with an assessed fine of approximately $2 million. andeavor appealed the citation in january 2011 as it disagreed with l&amp;i's characterizations of operations at the refinery and believed that many of the agency's conclusions were mistaken. in separate september 2013, november 2013 and february 2015 orders, the board of industrial insurance appeals ( biia ) granted partial summary judgment in andeavor's favor rejecting 33 of the original 44 allegations in the citation as lacking legal or evidentiary support. the hearing on the remaining 11 allegations concluded in july 2016. on june 8, 2017, the biia judge issued a proposed decision and order vacating the entire citation, which l&amp;i and the united steel workers ( usw ) appealed. on september 18, 2017, the biia granted l&amp;i and usw's petitions for review of the biia judge's june 8, 2017 proposed decision and order. on january 25, 2018, the biia issued an order remanding 12 of the allegations for further proceedings. proceedings regarding the 12 remanded citations are ongoing. detroit refinery in june 2019, we received an offer from the michigan department of environment, great lakes, and energy ( egle ) to settle violations alleged in five novs issued to the refinery between september 2017 and february 2019. in december 2019, the settlement discussions were expanded to include two additional novs issued to the refinery during october and december 2019. the novs allege violations of emissions limitations and other requirements of the refinery's air permit and michigan air pollution control laws. we are negotiating a settlement of the allegations with egle and cannot currently estimate the timing of the resolution of this matter. el paso refinery on february 19, 2020, we reached an agreement with the epa regarding alleged violations at our el paso refinery. the agreement requires payment of $359,000 for stipulated penalties associated with an epa review relating to the existing consent decree in u.s. v. western refining co. lp, w.d. texas no. 3:11-cv-00276-fm (entered august 31, 2011). galveston bay refinery in august 2019, we received an offer from the texas commission on environmental quality to settle violations alleged in enforcement notices issued to the refinery in march 2019. the notices allege violations of emissions limitations and other requirements of the refinery's air permit. we are negotiating a settlement of the allegations and cannot currently estimate the timing of the resolution of this matter. 47 table of contents los angeles refinery in february 2020, we received an offer from the south coast air quality management district to settle an nov issued to the refinery in september 2018 for 13 self-reported title v deviations. the deviations involve flaring, opacity, fugitive emissions, and carbon canisters, among others. we are negotiating a settlement and cannot currently estimate the timing of the resolution of this matter. martinez refinery on february 12, 2016, trmc received an offer to settle 35 novs received from the bay area air quality management district ( baaqmd ). the novs were issued from may 2011 to november 2015 and allege violations of air quality regulations for ground level monitors located at our martinez refinery. in november 2019, the settlement discussions were expanded to include 47 additional novs issued to the refinery between 2015 and 2018. while we are negotiating a settlement of the allegations with the baaqmd, we cannot currently estimate the timing of the resolution of this matter. on july 18, 2016, the u.s. department of justice ( doj ) lodged a complaint on behalf of the epa and a consent decree in the u.s. court for the western district of texas. among other things, the consent decree required that the martinez refinery meet certain annual emission limits for nox by july 1, 2018. in february 2018, trmc informed the epa that it would need additional time to satisfy requirements of the consent decree. in the fourth quarter for 2019, trmc and the united states entered into an agreement to amend the consent decree to resolve these issues. the consent decree amendment will include a civil penalty of approximately $6.5 million and a schedule for installation of a selective catalytic reduction system to control nox emissions from the fccu. on january 23, 2020, trmc received an offer to settle 59 novs received from the baaqmd. the novs were issued between april 2015 and march 2019 and allege violations of air quality regulations and the martinez refinery's air permit. while we are negotiating a settlement of the allegations with the baaqmd, we cannot currently estimate the timing of the resolution of this matter. item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. 48 table of contents part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities our common stock is listed on the nyse and traded under the symbol mpc. as of february 17, 2020 , there were 31,293 registered holders of our common stock. issuer purchases of equity securities the following table sets forth a summary of our purchases during the quarter ended december 31, 2019 , of equity securities that are registered by mpc pursuant to section 12 of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended: period total number of shares purchased (a) average price paid per share (b) total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs maximum dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs (c) 10/01/2019-10/31/2019 1,038,235 $ 62.86 1,033,027 $ 2,954,604,016 11/01/2019-11/30/2019 68 65.78 2,954,604,016 12/01/2019-12/31/2019 12,862 60.70 2,954,604,016 total 1,051,165 62.83 1,033,027 (a) the amounts in this column include 5,208 , 68 and 12,862 shares of our common stock delivered by employees to mpc, upon vesting of restricted stock, to satisfy tax withholding requirements in october , november and december , respectively. (b) amounts in this column reflect the weighted average price paid for shares purchased under our share repurchase authorizations and for shares tendered to us in satisfaction of employee tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock granted under our stock plans. the weighted average price includes commissions paid to brokers on shares purchased under our share repurchase authorizations. (c) on april 30, 2018, we announced that our board of directors had approved a $5 billion share repurchase authorization in addition to the remaining authorization pursuant to the may 31, 2017 announcement. these share purchase authorizations have no expiration date. the share repurchase authorization announced on april 30, 2018, together with prior authorizations, result in a total of $18 billion of share repurchase authorizations since january 1, 2012. 49 table of contents item 6. selected financial data the following table should be read in conjunction with item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for a discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk. 72 table of contents capital resources mpc, excluding mplx we control mplx through our ownership of the general partner, however, the creditors of mplx do not have recourse to mpc's general credit through guarantees or other financial arrangements. the assets of mplx can only be used to settle its own obligations and its creditors have no recourse to our assets. therefore, in the following table, we present the liquidity of mpc, excluding mplx. mplx liquidity is discussed in the following section. our liquidity, excluding mplx, totaled $8.3 billion at december 31, 2019 consisting of: december 31, 2019 (in millions) total capacity outstanding borrowings available capacity bank revolving credit facility (a) $ 5,000 $ 1 $ 4,999 364 day bank revolving credit facility 1,000 1,000 trade receivables facility 750 750 total $ 6,750 $ 1 $ 6,749 cash and cash equivalents (b) 1,512 total liquidity $ 8,261 (a) outstanding borrowings include $1 million in letters of credit outstanding under this facility. excludes mplx's $3.5 billion bank revolving credit facility, which had no borrowings and no of letters of credit outstanding as of december 31, 2019 . (b) excludes $15 million of mplx cash and cash equivalents. because of the alternatives available to us, including internally generated cash flow and access to capital markets, including a commercial paper program, we believe that our short-term and long-term liquidity is adequate to fund not only our current operations, but also our near-term and long-term funding requirements, including capital spending programs, the repurchase of shares of our common stock, dividend payments, defined benefit plan contributions, repayment of debt maturities and other amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies. commercial paper we established a commercial paper program that allows us to have a maximum of $2 billion in commercial paper outstanding, with maturities up to 397 days from the date of issuance. we do not intend to have outstanding commercial paper borrowings in excess of available capacity under our bank revolving credit facilities. at december 31, 2019 , we had no amounts outstanding under the commercial paper program. mpc bank revolving credit facilities on august 28, 2018, in connection with the andeavor acquisition, mpc entered into a credit agreement with a syndicate of lenders providing for a $5 billion five-year revolving credit facility that expires in 2023. the five-year credit agreement became effective on october 1, 2018. on july 26, 2019, mpc entered into a credit agreement with a syndicate of lenders providing for a new $1 billion 364-day revolving credit facility that became effective upon the expiration of mpc's previously existing $1 billion 364-day revolving credit facility in september 2019. the new 364-day credit agreement contains substantially the same terms and conditions as our previously existing 364-day revolving credit facility and will expire in september 2020. there were no borrowings and approximately $1 million of letters of credit outstanding under these facilities at december 31, 2019 . trade receivables facility our trade receivables facility has a borrowing capacity of $750 million (depending on the amount of our eligible domestic trade accounts receivable). on july 19, 2019, we amended our trade receivables facility to extend the maturity date to july 16, 2021. as of december 31, 2019, eligible trade receivables supported borrowings of $750 million. there were no borrowings outstanding at december 31, 2019 . availability under our trade receivables facility is primarily a function of refined product selling prices. the mpc credit agreements and our trade receivables facility contain representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and events of default that we consider usual and customary for agreements of these types. the financial covenant requires us to maintain, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, a ratio of consolidated net debt to total capitalization (as defined in the mpc credit agreements) of no greater than 0.65 to 1.00. other covenants restrict us and/or certain of our subsidiaries from incurring debt, creating liens 73 table of contents on assets and entering into transactions with affiliates. as of december 31, 2019 , we were in compliance with the covenants contained in the mpc credit agreements and our trade receivables facility, including the financial covenant with a ratio of consolidated net debt to total capitalization of 0.21 to 1.00. our intention is to maintain an investment-grade credit profile. as of february 1, 2020, the credit ratings on our senior unsecured debt are as follows. company rating agency rating mpc moody's baa2 (negative outlook) standard &amp; poor's bbb (stable outlook) fitch bbb (stable outlook) the ratings reflect the respective views of the rating agencies. although it is our intention to maintain a credit profile that supports an investment-grade rating, there is no assurance that these ratings will continue for any given period of time. the ratings may be revised or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies if, in their respective judgments, circumstances so warrant. none of the mpc credit agreements or our trade receivables facility contains credit rating triggers that would result in the acceleration of interest, principal or other payments in the event that our credit ratings are downgraded. however, any downgrades of our senior unsecured debt could increase the applicable interest rates, yields and other fees payable under such agreements and may limit our flexibility to obtain financing in the future, including to refinance existing indebtedness. in addition, a downgrade of our senior unsecured debt rating to below investment-grade levels could, under certain circumstances, decrease the amount of trade receivables that are eligible to be sold under our trade receivables facility, impact our ability to purchase crude oil on an unsecured basis and could result in us having to post letters of credit under existing transportation services or other agreements. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. variable interest entities we evaluate all legal entities in which we hold an ownership or other pecuniary interest to determine if the entity is a vie. our interests in a vie are referred to as variable interests. variable interests can be contractual, ownership or other pecuniary interests in an entity that change with changes in the fair value of the vie's assets. when we conclude that we hold an interest in a vie we must determine if we are the entity's primary beneficiary. a primary beneficiary is deemed to have a controlling financial interest in a vie. this controlling financial interest is evidenced by both (a) the power to direct the activities of the vie that most significantly 82 table of contents impact the vie's economic performance and (b) the obligation to absorb losses that could potentially be significant to the vie or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the vie. we consolidate any vie when we determine that we are the primary beneficiary. we must disclose the nature of any interests in a vie that is not consolidated. significant judgment is exercised in determining that a legal entity is a vie and in evaluating our interest in a vie. we use primarily a qualitative analysis to determine if an entity is a vie. we evaluate the entity's need for continuing financial support; the equity holder's lack of a controlling financial interest; and/or if an equity holder's voting interests are disproportionate to its obligation to absorb expected losses or receive residual returns. we evaluate our interests in a vie to determine whether we are the primary beneficiary. we use a primarily qualitative analysis to determine if we are deemed to have a controlling financial interest in the vie, either on a standalone basis or as part of a related party group. we continually monitor our interests in legal entities for changes in the design or activities of an entity and changes in our interests, including our status as the primary beneficiary to determine if the changes require us to revise our previous conclusions. changes in the design or nature of the activities of a vie, or our involvement with a vie, may require us to reconsider our conclusions on the entity's status as a vie and/or our status as the primary beneficiary. such reconsideration requires significant judgment and understanding of the organization. this could result in the deconsolidation or consolidation of the affected subsidiary, which would have a significant impact on our financial statements. variable interest entities are discussed in quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk general we are exposed to market risks related to the volatility of crude oil and refined product prices. we employ various strategies, including the use of commodity derivative instruments, to hedge the risks related to these price fluctuations. we are also exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. as of december 31, 2019 , we did not have any financial derivative instruments to hedge the risks related to interest rate fluctuations; however, we have used them in the past, and we continually monitor the market and our exposure and may enter into these agreements again in the future. we are at risk for changes in fair value of all of our derivative instruments; however, such risk should be mitigated by price or rate changes related to the underlying commodity or financial transaction. we believe that our use of derivative instruments, along with our risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose us to material adverse consequences. while the use of derivative instruments could materially affect our results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods, we believe that the use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity. see