risk factors 6 risk factors you should carefully consider all of the information in this document and the following risk factors before making an investment decision regarding our securities. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this document. while we believe we have identified and discussed below the material risks affecting us, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we do not currently believe to be material that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the future. risks relating to our business general global economic and business conditions affect demand for our products. we compete in various geographic regions and product markets around the world. among these, the most significant are global industrial markets and residential markets. many of our businesses have experienced periodic economic downturns. important factors for our businesses and the businesses of our customers include the overall strength of the economy and our customers' confidence in the economy, industrial and governmental capital spending, the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets, unemployment rates, availability of consumer and commercial financing, interest rates, and energy and commodity prices. while we attempt to minimize our exposure to economic or market fluctuations by serving a balanced mix of end markets and geographic regions, any of these factors, individually or in the aggregate, or a significant or sustained downturn in a specific end market or geographic region could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we compete in attractive markets with a high level of competition, which may result in pressure on our profit margins and limit our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products and services are geographically diverse and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies and lower cost manufacturers. we compete based on technical expertise, reputation for quality and reliability, timeliness of delivery, previous installation history, contractual terms and price. some of our competitors, in particular smaller companies, attempt to compete based primarily on price, localized expertise and local relationships, especially with respect to products and applications that do not require a great deal of engineering or technical expertise. in addition, during economic downturns average selling prices tend to decrease as market participants compete more aggressively on price. if we are unable to continue to differentiate our products, services and solutions, or if we are forced to cut prices or to incur additional costs to remain competitive, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our future growth is dependent upon our ability to continue to adapt our products, services and organization to meet the demands of local markets in both developed and emerging economies and by developing or acquiring new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. we operate in global markets that are characterized by customer demand that is often global in scope but localized in delivery. we compete with thousands of smaller regional and local companies that may be positioned to offer products produced at lower cost than ours, or to capitalize on highly localized relationships and knowledge that are difficult for us to replicate. also, in several emerging markets potential customers prefer local suppliers, in some cases because of existing relationships and in other cases because of local legal restrictions or incentives that favor local businesses. accordingly, our future success depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to adapt our products, services, organization, workforce and sales strategies to fit localities throughout the world, particularly in high growth emerging markets; identify emerging technological and other trends in our target end-markets; and develop or acquire competitive products and services and bring them to market quickly and cost-effectively. we have chosen to focus our growth initiatives in specific end markets and geographies, but we cannot provide assurance that these growth initiatives will be sufficient to offset revenue declines in other markets. the failure to effectively adapt our products or services could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business strategy includes acquiring companies and making investments that complement our existing businesses. these acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. we continue to analyze and evaluate the acquisition of strategic businesses or product lines with the potential to strengthen our industry position or enhance our existing set of product and services offerings. there can be no assurance that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable acquisition candidates in the future or that completed acquisitions will be successful. acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: 6 diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; difficulties in obtaining and verifying the financial statements and other business information of acquired businesses; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of acquired companies or of ours; assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including risks related to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ); and dilution of interests of holders of our common shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our business operations. any acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as such acquisitions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. we are exposed to political, regulatory, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. sales outside of the united states for the year ended december 31, 2013 accounted for 54 percent of our net sales. further, most of our businesses obtain some products, components and raw materials from non-u.s. suppliers. accordingly, our business is subject to the political, regulatory, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. these risks include: changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; relatively more severe economic conditions in some international markets than in the united states; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; the difficulty of communicating and monitoring standards and directives across our global network of after-market service centers and manufacturing facilities; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements and restrictions; the possibility of terrorist action affecting us or our operations; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other trade restrictions; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations in non-u.s. labor markets; changes in tax treaties, laws or rulings that could have an adverse impact on our effective tax rate; limitations on repatriation of earnings; the difficulty of protecting intellectual property in foreign countries; and changes in and required compliance with a variety of non-u.s. laws and regulations. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. we cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business as a whole. volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. sales outside of the united states for the year ended december 31, 2013 accounted for 54 percent of our net sales. our financial statements reflect translation of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars. therefore, if the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the principle non-u.s. currencies from which we derive revenue as compared to a prior period, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will effectively be decreased to the extent of the change in currency valuations, and vice-versa. changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and in some instances, may have a significant effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 7 our future revenue depends in part on the existence of and our ability to win new contracts for major capital projects. a significant portion of our revenue in technical solutions and flow technologies is derived from major capital projects, including water pipeline and desalination projects in flow technologies. the number of such projects we may win in any year fluctuates, and is dependent upon the general availability of such projects and our ability to bid successfully for them. if negative market conditions arise, fewer such projects may be available, and if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or required governmental approvals we may not be able to pursue particular projects. either condition could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we maintain a sizable backlog and the timing of our conversion of revenue out of backlog is uncertain. our inability to convert backlog into revenue, whether due to factors that are within or outside of our control, could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the timing of our conversion of revenue out of backlog is subject to a variety of factors that may cause delays, many of which, including fluctuations in our customers' delivery schedules, are beyond our control. this is especially true with respect to major global capital projects, where the extended timeline for project completion and invoice satisfaction increases the likelihood for delays in the conversion of backlog related to modifications and order cancellations. such delays may lead to significant fluctuations in results of operations and cash flows from quarter to quarter, making it difficult to predict our financial performance on a quarterly basis. further, while we believe that historical order cancellations have not been significant, if we were to experience a significant amount of cancellations of or reductions in orders, it would reduce our backlog and, consequently, our future sales and results of operations. material cost and other inflation have adversely affected and could continue to affect our results of operations. in the past, we have experienced material cost and other inflation in a number of our businesses. we strive for productivity improvements and implement increases in selling prices to help mitigate cost increases in raw materials (especially metals and resins), energy and other costs such as pension, health care and insurance. we continue to implement operational initiatives in order to mitigate the impacts of this inflation and continuously reduce our costs. we cannot provide assurance, however, that these actions will be successful in managing our costs or increasing our productivity. continued cost inflation or failure of our initiatives to generate cost savings or improve productivity would likely negatively impact our results of operations. we are exposed to liquidated damages in many of our customer contracts. many of our customer contracts contain liquidated damages provisions in the event that we fail to perform our obligations thereunder in a timely manner or in accordance with agreed terms, conditions and standards. liquidated damages provisions typically provide for a payment to be made by us to the customer if we fail to deliver a product or service on time. we generally try to limit our exposure to a maximum penalty within a contract. however, because our products are often components of large and complex systems or capital projects, if we incur liquidated damages they may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. certain of our products require certifications by regulators or standards organizations, and our failure to obtain or maintain such certifications could negatively impact our business. in certain industries and for certain applications, in particular with respect to our pressure relief valves and valves used in the nuclear power generation industry, we must obtain certifications for our products or installations by regulators or standards organizations. as we expand our products offering into emerging markets, we will need to comply with additional and potentially different certification requirements. if we fail to obtain required certifications for our products, or if we fail to maintain such certifications on our products after they have been certified, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. intellectual property challenges may hinder our ability to develop, engineer and market our products. patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies, customer relationships, trademarks, trade names and brand names are important to our business. intellectual property protection, however, may not preclude competitors from developing products similar to ours or from challenging our names or products. our pending patent applications, and our pending copyright and trademark registration applications, may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. in addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. over the past few years, we have noticed an increasing tendency for participants in our markets to use conflicts over and challenges to intellectual property as a means to compete. patent and trademark challenges increase our costs to develop, engineer and market our products. we may need to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights and we may or may not be able to detect infringement by third parties. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights or register new patents, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 8 we have significant goodwill and intangible assets and future impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material negative impact on our financial results. we test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, by comparing the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units to their respective carrying values on their balance sheets. as of december 31, 2013 our goodwill and intangible assets were $6,910.3 million and represented 59% of our total assets. long-term declines in projected future cash flows could result in future goodwill and intangible asset impairments. because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. in the fourth quarter of each year, we complete our annual goodwill and intangible assets impairment reviews. as a result, we recorded a pre-tax non-cash impairment charge of $11.0 million and $60.7 million for trade name intangibles in the fourth quarter of 2013 and 2012, respectively. these represent impairments of a trade name in technical solutions in 2013 and trade names in flow technologies, process technologies and technical solutions in 2012. the impairment charges were the result of rebranding strategies implemented in the fourth quarter of 2013 and 2012. in the fourth quarter of 2011, we recorded a pre-tax non-cash impairment charge of $200.5 million for goodwill in process technologies. the goodwill impairment charge resulted from changes in our forecasts in light of economic conditions and due to continued softness in the end-markets served by residential water treatment components. we may be adversely affected by work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force. as of december 31, 2013 , 10,900 of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils. although we believe that our relations with the labor unions and work councils that represent our employees are generally good and we have experienced no material strikes and only minor work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not experience in the future these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. seasonality of sales and weather conditions may adversely affect our financial results. we experience seasonal demand in a number of markets within process technologies, flow technologies and technical solutions. in process technologies, end-user demand for pool equipment in our primary markets follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs from april to august. in flow technologies, demand for residential water supply products, infrastructure and agricultural products follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs from april to august. the magnitude of the sales increase in both process technologies and flow technologies is partially mitigated by employing some advance sale or early buy programs (generally including extended payment terms and/or additional discounts). also in flow technologies, we generally experience increased demand during australia's prime agricultural seasons. seasonal effects may vary from year to year and are impacted by weather patterns, particularly by temperatures, heavy flooding and droughts. technical solutions generally experiences increased demand for thermal protection products and services during the fall and winter months in the northern hemisphere. we cannot provide assurance that seasonality and weather conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our share price may fluctuate significantly. we cannot predict the prices at which our common shares may trade. the market price of our common shares may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain third-party financing as needed; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; changes in earnings estimates by us or securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and share price performance of other comparable companies; investor perception of us; natural or other environmental disasters that investors believe may affect us; 9 overall market fluctuations; results from any material litigation, including asbestos claims, government investigations or environmental liabilities; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common shares. risks relating to legal, regulatory and compliance matters our subsidiaries are party to asbestos-related product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our subsidiaries, along with numerous other companies, are named as defendants in a substantial number of lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. these cases typically involve product liability claims based primarily on allegations of manufacture, sale or distribution of industrial products that either contained asbestos or were attached to or used with asbestos-containing components manufactured by third parties. each case typically names between dozens to hundreds of corporate defendants. historically, our subsidiaries have been identified as defendants in asbestos-related claims. we have experienced an increase in the number of asbestos-related lawsuits over the past several years, including lawsuits by plaintiffs with mesothelioma-related claims. a large percentage of these suits have not presented viable legal claims and, as a result, have been dismissed or withdrawn. our strategy has been, and continues to be, to mount a vigorous defense aimed at having unsubstantiated suits dismissed, and, only where appropriate, settling claims before trial. as of december 31, 2013 , there were approximately 2,000 lawsuits pending against our subsidiaries. a lawsuit might include several claims, and we have approximately 2,200 claims outstanding as of december 31, 2013 . we cannot predict with certainty the extent to which we will be successful in litigating or otherwise resolving lawsuits in the future and we continue to evaluate different strategies related to asbestos claims filed against us including entity restructuring and judicial relief. unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we currently record an estimated liability related to pending claims and future claims, including related defense costs, based on a number of key assumptions and estimation methodologies. these assumptions are derived from historical claims experience and reflect our expectations about future claim activities. these assumptions about the future may or may not prove accurate, and accordingly, we may incur additional liabilities in the future. a change in one or more of the inputs or the methodology that we use to estimate the asbestos liability could materially change the estimated liability and associated cash flows for pending and future claims. although it is possible that we will incur additional costs for asbestos claims filed beyond what we have currently recorded, we do not believe there is a reasonable basis for estimating those costs at this time. on an annual basis, we review, and update as appropriate, such estimated asbestos liabilities and assets and the underlying assumptions. such an update could result in a material change in such estimated assets and liabilities. we also record an asset that represents our best estimate of probable recoveries from insurers or other responsible parties for the estimated asbestos liabilities. there are significant assumptions made in developing estimates of asbestos-related recoveries, such as policy triggers, policy or contract interpretation, success in litigation in certain cases, the methodology for allocating claims to policies and the continued solvency of the insurers or other responsible parties. the assumptions underlying the recorded asset may not prove accurate, and as a result, actual performance by our insurers and other responsible parties could result in lower receivables and cash flows expected to reduce our asbestos costs. we believe it is possible that the cost of asbestos claims filed beyond our estimation period, net of expected recoveries, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 10 we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption laws outside the united states. the fcpa and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the u.s. department of justice ( doj ) and the sec, increased enforcement activity by non-u.s. regulators and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. because many of our customers and end users are involved in infrastructure construction and energy production, they are often subject to increased scrutiny by regulators. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third-party intermediaries. in the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or agents have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the fcpa we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. prior to the merger, the flow control business was subject to investigations by the doj and the sec related to allegations that improper payments were made by the flow control business and other tyco subsidiaries and third-party intermediaries in recent years in violation of the fcpa. tyco reported to the doj and the sec the remedial measures that it had taken in response to the allegations and tyco's own internal investigations. as a result of discussions with the doj and sec aimed at resolving these matters, on september 24, 2012, tyco entered into a settlement with the sec and a non-prosecution agreement with the doj, pursuant to which the flow control business is for a three year period subject to yearly reporting to the doj concerning its continuing compliance efforts. as a result, the flow control business may be subject to investigations in other jurisdictions or suffer other criminal or civil penalties or adverse impacts, including being subject to lawsuits brought by private litigants, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our failure to satisfy international trade compliance regulations may adversely affect us. our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. certain of the products we manufacture are dual use products, which are products that may have both civil and military applications, or may otherwise be involved in weapons proliferation, and are often subject to more stringent export controls. from time to time, we obtain or receive information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. our policy mandates strict compliance with u.s. and non-u.s. trade laws applicable to our products. however, even when we are in strict compliance with law and our policies, we may suffer reputational damage if certain of our products are sold through various intermediaries to entities operating in sanctioned countries. when we receive information alleging improper activity, our policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting our findings to relevant governmental authorities. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our policies and procedures will always protect us from actions that would violate u.s. and/or non-u.s. laws. any improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and business prospects. legislative action by the u.s. congress could adversely affect us. legislative action could be taken by the u.s. congress which, if ultimately enacted, could override tax treaties, or modify tax statutes or regulation upon which we rely. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding our incorporation in switzerland or limiting our ability as a swiss company to take advantage of the tax treaties between switzerland and the united states, we could be subject to increased taxation, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods. we are exposed to potential environmental and other laws, liabilities and litigation. we are subject to u.s. federal, state, local and non-u.s. laws and regulations governing our environmental practices, public and worker health and safety, and the indoor and outdoor environment. compliance with these environmental, health and safety regulations could require us to satisfy environmental liabilities, increase the cost of manufacturing our products or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. any violations of these laws by us could cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities that could harm our operating results and cause our business to suffer. we are also required to comply with various environmental laws and maintain permits, some of which are subject to discretionary renewal from time to time, for many of our businesses and we could suffer if we are unable to renew existing permits or to obtain any additional 11 permits that we may require. compliance with environmental requirements also could require significant operating or capital expenditures or result in significant operational restrictions. we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. we have been named as defendant, target or a potentially responsible party ( prp ) in a number of environmental clean-ups relating to our current or former business units. we have disposed of a number of businesses in recent years and in certain cases, we have retained responsibility and potential liability for certain environmental obligations. we have received claims for indemnification from certain purchasers. we may be named as a prp at other sites in the future for existing business units, as well as both divested and acquired businesses. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. certain environmental laws impose liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. we have projects underway at several current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from our past operations or by other businesses that previously owned or used the properties. the cost of cleanup and other environmental liabilities can be difficult to accurately predict. in addition, environmental requirements change and tend to become more stringent over time. thus, we cannot provide assurance that our eventual environmental clean-up costs and liabilities will not exceed the amount of our current reserves. we are exposed to potential regulatory, financial and reputational risks related to certain conflict minerals." in 2012, the sec adopted disclosure requirements related to certain minerals sourced from the democratic republic of congo or adjoining countries, as required by section 1502 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act. the final rules impose inquiry, diligence and disclosure obligations with respect to conflict minerals, defined as tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, that are necessary to the functionality of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by an sec reporting company. the first disclosure deadline under the final rules is may 31, 2014, and by that date, an sec reporting company must make disclosures regarding products it sold in calendar 2013. certain of these minerals are used extensively in components manufactured by our suppliers (or in components incorporated by our suppliers into components supplied to us) for use in our products. under the final rules, an sec reporting company must conduct a country of origin inquiry that is reasonably designed to determine whether any of the conflict minerals that are necessary to the functionality of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by the company originated in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. if any such conflict minerals originated in the democratic republic of congo or an adjoining country, the final rules require the issuer to exercise due diligence on the source of such conflict minerals and their chain of custody with the ultimate objective of determining whether the conflict minerals directly or indirectly financed or benefited armed groups in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. the issuer must then prepare and file with the sec a report regarding its diligence efforts. we have incurred and expect to incur significant costs to conduct our country of origin inquiry and, if necessary, to exercise such due diligence. we have a very large number of suppliers and our supply chain is very complex and multifaceted. while we have no intention to use minerals sourced from the democratic republic of congo or adjoining countries that are not conflict free (meaning that they do not contain conflict minerals that directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country), a significant number of our suppliers are small businesses, and those small businesses have limited or no resources to track their sources of minerals. as a result, we expect significant difficulty in determining the country of origin or the source and chain of custody for all conflict minerals used in our products and disclosing that our products are conflict free. we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to verify the country of origin or the source and chain of custody for all conflict minerals used in our products or if we are unable to disclose that our products are conflict free. implementation of these rules may also affect the sourcing and availability of some minerals necessary to the manufacture of our products and may affect the availability and price of conflict minerals capable of certification as conflict free. accordingly, we may incur significant costs as a consequence of these rules, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. the u.s. congress and federal and state regulatory agencies have been considering legislation and regulatory proposals that would regulate and limit greenhouse gas emissions. it is uncertain whether, when and in what form a federal mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program may be adopted. similarly, certain countries have adopted the kyoto protocol and this and other existing international initiatives or those under consideration could affect our international operations. to the extent our customers, particularly those involved in the oil and gas, power generation, petrochemical processing or petroleum refining industries, are subject to any of these or other similar 12 proposed or newly enacted laws and regulations, we are exposed to risks that the additional costs by customers to comply with such laws and regulations could impact their ability or desire to continue to operate at similar levels in certain jurisdictions as historically seen or as currently anticipated, which could negatively impact their demand for our products and services. in addition, new laws and regulations that might favor the increased use of non-fossil fuels, including nuclear, wind, solar and bio-fuels or that are designed to increase energy efficiency, could dampen demand for oil and gas production or power generation resulting in lower spending by customers for our products and services. these actions could also increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for raw materials and transportation. because it is uncertain what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. increased information technology security threats and more sophisticated computer crime pose a risk to our systems, networks, products and services. we are exposed to potential regulatory, financial and reputational risks relating to the protection of our data. we rely upon information technology systems and networks in connection with a variety of business activities, some of which are managed by third parties. additionally, we collect and store data that is sensitive to pentair and its employees, customers, dealers and suppliers. the secure operation of these information technology systems and networks, and the processing and maintenance of this data is critical to our business operations and strategy. information technology security threats -- from user error to attacks designed to gain unauthorized access to our systems, networks and data -- are increasing in frequency and sophistication. attacks may range from random attempts to coordinated and targeted attacks, including sophisticated computer crime and advanced persistent threats. these threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the data we process and maintain. establishing systems and processes to address these threats and changes in legal requirements relating to data collection and storage may increase our costs. we have identified attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems and networks. to our knowledge, no such attack was ultimately successful in exporting sensitive data or controlling sensitive systems or networks. should such an attack succeed it could expose us and our employees, customers, dealers and suppliers to misuse of information or systems, the compromising of confidential information, theft of assets, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operations disruptions, and breach of privacy, which may require notification under data privacy and other applicable laws. the occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our reputation, competitive position, business and results of operations. in addition, such breaches in security could result in litigation, regulatory action and potential liability and the costs and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures. our results of operations may be negatively impacted by litigation. our businesses expose us to potential litigation, such as product liability claims relating to the design, manufacture and sale of our products. while we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms or that this insurance will provide adequate protection against potential or previously existing liabilities. in addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. successful claims against us for significant amounts could materially and adversely affect our product reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks relating to the distribution and the merger we may not realize the growth opportunities and cost synergies that are anticipated from the merger. the benefits that are expected to result from the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies as a result of the merger. our success in realizing these growth opportunities and cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses. even if we are able to integrate the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities and cost synergies that we currently expect from this integration or that these benefits will be achieved within the anticipated time frame or at all. for example, we may not be able to eliminate duplicative costs. moreover, we may incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses. while we anticipate that certain expenses will be incurred, such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately, and may exceed current estimates. accordingly, the benefits from the merger may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the businesses. the integration of the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses following the merger may present significant challenges. there is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of integrating the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses. these difficulties include: the challenge of integrating the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses while carrying on the ongoing operations of each entity; the necessity of coordinating geographically separate organizations; 13 the challenge of integrating the business cultures of the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses, which may prove to be incompatible; the challenge and cost of integrating the information technology systems of the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses; and the potential difficulty in retaining key executives and personnel of the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses. the process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses. members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our company, service existing customers, attract new customers and develop new products or strategies. if senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses could suffer. there can be no assurance that we will successfully or cost-effectively integrate the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses. the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we share responsibility for certain income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the date of the distribution. in connection with the distribution, we entered into a tax sharing agreement (the 2012 tax sharing agreement ) with tyco and the adt corporation ( adt ), which governs the rights and obligations of adt, tyco and us for certain pre-distribution tax liabilities, including tyco's obligations under a separate tax sharing agreement (the 2007 tax sharing agreement ) entered into by tyco, covidien ltd. ( covidien ) and te connectivity ltd. ( te connectivity ) in connection with the 2007 distributions of covidien and te connectivity by tyco (the 2007 separation ). the 2007 tax sharing agreement governs the rights and obligations of tyco, covidien and te connectivity with respect to certain pre-2007 separation tax liabilities and certain tax liabilities arising in connection with the 2007 separation. more specifically, tyco, covidien and te connectivity share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to tyco's, covidien's and te connectivity's u.s. and certain non-u.s. 2007 and prior income tax returns. in addition, in the event that the 2007 separation or certain related transactions are determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the 2007 separation by tyco, covidien or te connectivity, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on tyco, covidien or te connectivity as a result thereof. if none of the companies is responsible for such failure, then tyco, covidien and te connectivity would be responsible for such taxes, in the same manner and in the same proportions as other shared tax liabilities under the 2007 tax sharing agreement. costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities are generally shared equally among the parties. the 2012 tax sharing agreement provides that we, tyco and adt will share (i) certain pre-distribution income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, tyco's and adt's u.s. income tax returns, and (ii) payments required to be made by tyco with respect to the 2007 tax sharing agreement (the liabilities in clauses (i) and (ii) collectively, shared tax liabilities ). tyco is responsible for the first $500 million of shared tax liabilities. we and adt will share 42% and 58%, respectively, of the next $225 million of shared tax liabilities. we, adt and tyco will share 20%, 27.5% and 52.5%, respectively, of shared tax liabilities above $725 million. costs and expenses associated with the management of shared tax liabilities will generally be shared 20% by us, 27.5% by adt and 52.5% by tyco. with respect to years prior to and including the 2007 separation, tax authorities have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments that are generally subject to the sharing provisions of the 2007 tax sharing agreement and which may require tyco to make a payment to a taxing authority, covidien or te connectivity. with respect to adjustments raised by the irs, although tyco has resolved a substantial number of these adjustments, a few significant items remain open with respect to the audit of the 1997 through 2004 years. as of the date hereof, tyco has not been able to resolve certain open items, which primarily involve the treatment of certain intercompany debt issued during the period, through the irs appeals process. the ultimate resolution of these matters is uncertain and could result in tyco being responsible for a greater amount than it expects under the 2007 tax sharing agreement. on july 1, 2013, tyco announced that the internal revenue service ( irs ) issued notices of deficiency ( tyco irs notices ) to tyco asserting that several of tyco's former u.s. subsidiaries collectively owe additional taxes in the aggregate amount of $883.3 million plus penalties of $154 million based on audits of the 1997 through 2000 tax years of tyco and its subsidiaries as they existed at that time. these amounts exclude interest and do not reflect the impact on subsequent periods if the irs challenge to tyco's tax filings as described below is ultimately successful. if the irs should successfully assert its position, our share of the collective liability, if any, would be determined pursuant to the 2007 tax sharing agreement and the 2012 tax sharing agreement. tyco has filed petitions with the u.s. tax court to contest the irs assessments. as we have previously disclosed, in connection with u.s. federal tax audits of tyco and its subsidiaries, the irs has previously raised issues and proposed tax adjustments for periods beginning with the 1997 tax year. the adjustments now asserted by the 14 irs under the tyco irs notices primarily relate to the treatment of certain intercompany debt transactions. the irs has asserted in the tyco irs notices that substantially all of the intercompany debt originated during the 1997 - 2000 period should not be treated as debt for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and has therefore disallowed interest and related deductions recognized associated with that intercompany debt on the u.s. income tax returns for those periods totaling approximately $2.9 billion . if the irs is successful in asserting its claim, it would have an adverse impact on interest deductions related to the same tyco intercompany debt in subsequent time periods, totaling approximately $6.6 billion, which tyco has advised us that it expects the irs to disallow. under the 2012 tax sharing agreement, tyco has the right to administer, control, and settle all u.s. income tax audits for periods prior to and including the distribution. as mentioned above, tyco has filed petitions with the u.s. tax court to contest the irs assessments. any payment that tyco is required to make under the 2007 tax sharing agreement, including if the irs were to prevail with respect to the matter set forth above, could result in a material liability for us under the 2012 tax sharing agreement. to the extent we are responsible for any liability under the 2012 tax sharing agreement, and indirectly the 2007 tax sharing agreement, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods. if the merger, distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we, our shareholders or tyco could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. pentair, inc. and tyco received private letter rulings from the irs in connection with the distribution and the merger regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distribution and the merger to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes: the distribution will qualify as tax-free under sections 355 and 361 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares; certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution will qualify for favorable treatment under the code; the merger will qualify as a reorganization under section 368(a) of the code; certain anticipated post-closing transactions will not prevent the tax-free treatment of the distribution or the merger; and section 367(a)(1) of the code will not cause the merger to be taxable to pentair, inc. shareholders (except for a u.s. shareholder who is or will be a five-percent transferee shareholder within the meaning of applicable treasury regulations but who does not enter into a gain recognition agreement with the irs). in addition, tyco received a legal opinion confirming the tax-free status of the distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes and tyco and pentair, inc. received legal opinions to the effect that the merger will qualify as a reorganization under section 368(a) of the code and that section 367(a)(1) of the code will not cause the merger to be taxable to pentair, inc. shareholders (except for a u.s. shareholder who is or will be a five-percent transferee shareholder within the meaning of applicable treasury regulations but who does not enter into a gain recognition agreement with the irs). the private letter rulings and opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from us, tyco and pentair, inc. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution, the internal transactions or the merger should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distribution, the internal transactions or the merger should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in share or asset ownership after the merger. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, the distribution could be treated as a taxable dividend or capital gain to tyco shareholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and tyco shareholders could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. in addition, tyco would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of our common shares distributed to tyco shareholders on the distribution date over tyco's tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, tyco could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution are taxable. if the merger ultimately is determined to be taxable, pentair, inc. shareholders would recognize taxable gain or loss on their disposition of pentair, inc. common shares in the merger. under the terms of the 2012 tax sharing agreement, in the event the distribution, the adt distribution, the internal transactions or the merger were determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the distribution by us, adt or tyco, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed as a result thereof. if such failure is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, adt or tyco, then we, adt and tyco would be responsible for any taxes imposed as a result of such determination in the same manner and in the same proportions as we, adt and tyco are responsible for shared tax liabilities. such tax amounts could be significant. in the event that any party to the 2012 tax sharing agreement defaults in its obligation to pay certain taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party's obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party's taxes. in addition, if another party to the 2012 tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be 15 legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, tyco's and adt's tax liabilities. if the distribution or the merger are determined to be taxable for swiss withholding or other tax purposes, we could incur significant swiss withholding tax or other tax liabilities. generally, swiss withholding tax of 35% is due on dividends and similar distributions to tyco's shareholders, regardless of the place of residency of the shareholder. as of january 1, 2011, distributions to shareholders out of qualifying contributed surplus ( kapitaleinlage ) accumulated on or after january 1, 1997 are exempt from swiss withholding tax if certain conditions are met ( kapitaleinlageprinzip ). tyco has obtained a ruling from the swiss federal tax administration confirming that the distribution qualifies as payment out of such qualifying contributed surplus and no amount will be withheld by tyco when making the distribution. as a condition to closing of the merger, tyco obtained rulings from the swiss federal tax administration confirming: (i) that the merger will be a transaction that is generally tax-free for swiss federal, cantonal, and communal tax purposes (including with respect to swiss stamp tax and swiss withholding tax); (ii) the relevant swiss tax base of an acquisition subsidiary of ours for swiss tax (including federal and cantonal and communal) purposes; (iii) the relevant amount of capital contribution reserves ( kapitaleinlageprinzip ) which will be exempt from swiss withholding tax in the event of a distribution to our shareholders after the merger; and (iv) that no swiss stamp tax will be levied on certain post-merger restructuring transactions. these tax rulings rely on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from tyco. notwithstanding these tax rulings, the swiss federal tax administration could determine on audit that the distribution or the merger or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction for withholding tax or other tax purposes if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated. if the distribution or the merger or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution ultimately are determined to be taxable for withholding tax or other tax purposes, we and tyco could incur material swiss withholding tax or other tax liabilities that could significantly detract from, or eliminate, the benefits of the distribution and the merger. in addition, we could become liable to indemnify tyco for part of any swiss withholding tax liabilities to the extent provided under the 2012 tax sharing agreement. we might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances because of restrictions relating to u.s. federal income tax requirements for tax-free distributions. our ability to engage in desirable strategic transactions or equity issuances could be significantly limited or restricted in order to preserve, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the tax-free nature of the distribution and certain related transactions. even if the distribution otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code, it may result in corporate-level gain to tyco under section 355(e) of the code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our shares or tyco's shares are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. any acquisitions or issuances of our shares or tyco's shares within two years after the distribution are generally presumed to be part of such a plan, although we or tyco may be able to rebut that presumption. for purposes of this test, the merger might be treated as part of such a plan or series of related transactions, but if so would not, by itself, cause the distribution to be taxable to tyco since pentair, inc. shareholders acquired less than 50% of our common shares in the merger. the change in ownership resulting from the merger, if treated as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution, would be aggregated with other acquisitions or issuances of our shares that occur as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the distribution in determining whether a 50% change in ownership has occurred. the process for determining whether a change of ownership has occurred under the tax rules is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case. if we do not carefully monitor our compliance with these rules, we could inadvertently cause or permit a change of ownership to occur, triggering our obligation to indemnify tyco or adt pursuant to the 2012 tax sharing agreement. to preserve the tax-free treatment to tyco of the distribution, under the 2012 tax sharing agreement, we are prohibited from taking or failing to take any action that prevents the distribution and related transactions from being tax-free. further, for the two-year period following the distribution, without obtaining the consent of tyco and adt, a private letter ruling from the irs or an unqualified opinion of a nationally recognized law firm, we may be prohibited from, among other things: approving or allowing any transaction that results in a change in ownership of more than 35% of our common shares, when combined with any other changes in ownership of our common shares, redeeming equity securities, selling or otherwise disposing of more than 35% of our assets, or 16 engaging in certain internal transactions. these restrictions may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. moreover, the 2012 tax sharing agreement also provides that we are responsible for any taxes imposed on tyco or any of its affiliates or on adt or any of its affiliates as a result of the failure of the distribution or the internal transactions to qualify for favorable treatment under the code if such failure is attributable to certain actions taken after the distribution by or in respect of us, any of our affiliates or our shareholders. risks relating to our liquidity disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect us, our customers and our suppliers by increasing funding costs or reducing availability of credit. in the normal course of our business, we may access credit markets for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, acquisitions, additions to working capital, repurchase of common shares, capital expenditures and investments in our subsidiaries. although we expect to have sufficient liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets, which have occurred in the past and made financing terms for borrowers unattractive or unavailable. these factors may make it more difficult or expensive for us to access credit markets if the need arises. in addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for prospective customers to commence new projects, as customers and suppliers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. disruptions in the financial markets have had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slowdown in general economic activity that may continue to adversely affect our businesses. these disruptions may have other unknown adverse effects. one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our credit agreements and indentures contain customary financial covenants. our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and, in the case of credit facility lenders, terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, which could affect our financial condition, and may decrease our profitability. as of december 31, 2013 , we had $2.6 billion of total debt outstanding. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, subject to restrictions in our debt agreements. if our cash flow from operations is less than we anticipate, or if our cash requirements are more than we expect, we may require more financing. however, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. if we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of additional capital shares, the terms of the debt or capital shares issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common shares, particularly in the event of liquidation. the terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. if we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, the percentage ownership of existing shareholders in our company would decline. if we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, our financial condition could be adversely affected. also, regardless of the terms of our financings, the amount of our shares that we can issue may be limited because the issuance of our shares may cause the distribution to be a taxable event for tyco under section 355(e) of the code, and under the 2012 tax sharing agreement, we could be required to indemnify tyco for that tax. see discussion under we might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances following the distribution and the merger because of restrictions relating to u.s. federal income tax requirements for tax-free distributions. our leverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our existing debt as well as any future debt that we may incur, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due, we may be forced to sell assets or take other disadvantageous actions, including (i) reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes or (ii) dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and 17 interest on our indebtedness. the lenders who hold such debt could also accelerate amounts due, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of any of our other debt. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation in switzerland our status as a swiss corporation may limit our flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management and may cause us to be unable to make distributions without subjecting our shareholders to swiss withholding tax. swiss law allows shareholders to authorize share capital that can be issued by the board of directors without additional shareholder approval. this authorization is limited to 50% of the existing registered share capital and must be renewed by the shareholders every two years. additionally, subject to specified exceptions, swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe to any new issuance of shares. swiss law also does not provide as much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares as the laws of some other jurisdictions. swiss law also reserves for approval by shareholders certain corporate actions over which a board of directors would have authority in some other jurisdictions. these swiss law requirements relating to our capital management may limit our flexibility, and situations may arise where greater flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders. under swiss law, a swiss corporation may pay dividends only if the corporation has sufficient distributable profits from previous fiscal years, or if the corporation has distributable reserves, each as evidenced by its audited statutory balance sheet. distributable reserves are generally recorded either as free reserves or as qualifying contributed surplus (contributions received from shareholders) in capital contribution reserve. distributions may be made out of registered share capital the aggregate par value of a company's registered shares only by way of a capital reduction. after the merger, the amount available for future dividends or capital reductions from reserve from capital contributions on a swiss withholding tax free basis is chf 8.8 billion. we will not be able to pay dividends or make other distributions to shareholders on a swiss withholding tax free basis in excess of that amount unless we increase our share capital or our reserves from capital contributions. we would also be able to pay dividends out of distributable profits or freely distributable reserves, but such dividends would be subject to swiss withholding tax. there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient distributable profits, free reserves, reserves from capital contributions or registered share capital to pay a dividend or effect a capital reduction or that we will be able to meet the other legal requirements for dividend payments or distributions as a result of capital reductions. generally, swiss withholding tax of 35% is due on dividends and similar distributions to our shareholders, regardless of the place of residency of the shareholder, unless the distribution is made to shareholders out of (i) a reduction of par value or (ii) assuming certain conditions are met, qualifying contributed surplus accumulated on or after january 1, 1997. a u.s. holder that qualifies for benefits under the convention between the united states of america and the swiss confederation for the avoidance of double taxation with respect to taxes on income (the u.s.-swiss treaty ) may apply for a refund of the tax withheld in excess of the 15% treaty rate (or in excess of the 5% reduced treaty rate for qualifying corporate shareholders with at least 10% participation in our voting shares, or for a full refund in the case of qualified pension funds). there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient qualifying contributed surplus to pay dividends free from swiss withholding tax or that swiss withholding rules will not be changed in the future. in addition, there can be no assurance that the current swiss law with respect to distributions out of qualifying contributed surplus will not be changed or that a change in swiss law will not adversely affect us or our shareholders, in particular as a result of distributions out of qualifying contributed surplus becoming subject to additional corporate law or other restrictions. there are currently motions pending in the swiss parliament that purport to limit the distribution of qualifying contributed surplus. in addition, over the long term, the amount of par value available to us for par value reductions or qualifying contributed surplus available to us to pay out as distributions is limited. if we are unable to make a distribution through a reduction in par value or out of qualifying contributed surplus, we may not be able to make distributions without subjecting our shareholders to swiss withholding taxes. under present swiss tax laws, repurchases of shares for the purposes of cancellation are treated as a partial liquidation subject to 35% swiss withholding tax on the difference between the repurchase price and the par value except, since january 1, 2011, to the extent attributable to qualifying contributed surplus ( kapitaleinlagereserven ) if any. if, and to the extent that, the repurchase of shares is out of retained earnings or other taxable reserves, the swiss withholding tax becomes due. no partial liquidation treatment applies and no withholding tax is triggered if the shares are not repurchased for cancellation but held by us as treasury shares. however, should we not resell such treasury shares within six years, the withholding tax becomes due at the end of the six year period. although we may follow a share repurchase process for future share repurchases, if any, similar to a second trading line on the six swiss exchange in which swiss institutional investors sell shares to us and are generally able to receive a refund of the swiss withholding tax, if we are unable to use this process successfully, we may not be able to repurchase shares for the purposes of capital reduction without triggering swiss withholding tax if and to the extent that the repurchase of shares is made 18 out of retained earnings or other taxable reserves. no withholding tax would be applicable if and to the extent that tax-free qualifying contributed surplus is attributable to the share repurchase. changes in the u.s. dollar/swiss franc exchange rate could limit the amount of dividends authorized on our common shares, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to pay dividends on our common shares. on april 29, 2013, our shareholders approved at our 2013 annual general meeting of shareholders a proposal to pay quarterly cash dividends through the second quarter of 2014. the authorization provides that a dividend will be made out of our contributed surplus equity position in our statutory accounts to our shareholders in the amount of $0.25 for each of the third and fourth quarters of 2013 and the first and second quarters of 2014. the deduction to our contributed surplus in our statutory accounts, which is required to be made in swiss francs, will be determined based on the aggregate amount of the dividend and will be calculated based on the u.s. dollar/swiss franc exchange rate in effect on april 29, 2013. the u.s. dollar amount of the dividend will be capped at an amount such that the aggregate reduction to our contributed surplus will not exceed 396 million swiss francs. to the extent that a dividend payment would exceed the cap, the u.s. dollar per share amount of the current or future dividends will be reduced on a pro rata basis so that the aggregate amount of all dividends paid does not exceed the cap. in addition, the aggregate reduction in contributed surplus will be increased for any shares issued, and decreased for any shares acquired, after april 29, 2013 and before the record date for the applicable dividend payment. any future dividends that may be proposed by our board of directors will be subject to approval by our shareholders at our annual general meeting. there can be no assurance that our shareholders will approve dividends. whether our board of directors exercises its discretion to propose any dividends to holders of our common shares will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our business, covenants associated with debt obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay any dividend in the future. swiss laws differ from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. because of differences between swiss law and u.s. state and federal laws and differences between the governing documents of swiss companies and those incorporated in the u.s., it may not be possible to enforce in switzerland court judgments obtained in the united states against us based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the united states. as a result, in a lawsuit based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws, u.s. investors may find it difficult to: effect service within the united states upon us or our directors and officers located outside the united states; enforce judgments obtained against those persons in u.s. courts or in courts in jurisdictions outside the united states; and enforce against those persons in switzerland, whether in original actions or in actions for the enforcement of judgments of u.s. courts, civil liabilities based solely upon the u.s. federal or state securities laws. original actions against persons in switzerland based solely upon the u.s. federal or state securities laws are governed, among other things, by the principles set forth in the swiss federal act on private international law. this statute provides that the application of provisions of non-swiss law by the courts in switzerland shall be precluded if the result was incompatible with swiss public policy. also, mandatory provisions of swiss law may be applicable regardless of any other law that would otherwise apply. switzerland and the united states do not have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition of and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the recognition and enforcement of a judgment of the courts of the united states in switzerland is governed by the principles set forth in the swiss federal act on private international law. this statute provides in principle that a judgment rendered by a non-swiss court may be enforced in switzerland only if: the non-swiss court had jurisdiction pursuant to the swiss federal act on private international law; the judgment of such non-swiss court has become final and non-appealable; the judgment does not contravene swiss public policy; the court procedures and the service of documents leading to the judgment were in accordance with the due process of law; and no proceeding involving the same position and the same subject matter was first brought in switzerland, or adjudicated in switzerland, or that it was earlier adjudicated in a third state and this decision is recognizable in switzerland. 19 risks relating to our proposed redomicile the anticipated benefits of the redomicile may not be realized. we may not realize the benefits we anticipate from the redomicile. our failure to realize those benefits could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. the rights of pentair shareholders will change as a result of the redomicile. the completion of the redomicile will change the governing law that applies to our shareholders from swiss law (which applies to the pentair common shares) to irish law (which applies to pentair-ireland ordinary shares). many of the principal attributes of pentair common shares and pentair-ireland ordinary shares will be materially similar. however, if the redomicile is completed, pentair shareholders' future rights as shareholders under irish corporate law will differ from their current rights as a shareholder under swiss corporate law. in addition, pentair-ireland's proposed articles of association will differ from the pentair articles of association and organizational regulations. a change in our tax residency could have a negative effect on our future profitability and taxes on dividends. under current irish legislation, a company is regarded as resident for tax purposes in ireland if it is centrally managed and controlled in ireland, or, in certain circumstances, if it is incorporated in ireland. under current u.k. legislation, a company that is centrally managed and controlled in the u.k. is regarded as resident in the u.k. for taxation purposes. where a company is treated as tax resident under the domestic laws of both the u.k. and ireland then the provisions of article 4(3) of the double tax convention between ireland and the u.k. provide that such enterprise shall be treated as resident only in the jurisdiction in which its place of effective management is situated. upon completion of the redomicile, pentair-ireland intends to manage its affairs so that it is centrally managed and controlled in the u.k. and therefore has its tax residency only in the u.k. however, we cannot provide assurance that pentair-ireland will continue to be resident only in the u.k. for tax purposes. it is possible that in the future, whether as a result of a change in law or the practice of any relevant tax authority or as a result of any change in the conduct of its affairs, pentair-ireland could become, or be regarded as having become resident in a jurisdiction other than the u.k. if pentair-ireland was considered to be a tax resident of ireland, pentair-ireland could become liable for irish corporation tax and any dividends paid by it could be subject to irish dividend withholding tax. we will remain subject to changes in law and other factors after the redomicile that may not allow pentair-ireland to maintain a worldwide effective corporate tax rate that is competitive in pentair's industry. while we believe that the redomicile should not affect our ability to maintain a worldwide effective corporate tax rate that is competitive in our industry, we cannot give any assurance as to what pentair-ireland's effective tax rate will be after the redomicile because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding tax policies of the jurisdictions where pentair operates. also, the tax laws of the u.s., the u.k., ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in pentair-ireland's worldwide effective corporate tax rate. in particular, legislative action could be taken by the u.s., the u.k., ireland or the european union which could override tax treaties upon which we expect to rely and adversely affect pentair-ireland's effective tax rate. as a result, pentair-ireland's actual effective tax rate may be materially different from our expectations. we expect to incur transaction costs in connection with the completion of the redomicile, some of which will be incurred whether or not the redomicile is completed. we incurred in 2013 and expect to incur in 2014 a total of approximately $14 million in transaction costs in connection with the redomicile. a majority of these costs will be incurred regardless of whether the redomicile is completed and prior to the extraordinary general meeting. pentair-ireland will seek irish high court approval of the creation of distributable reserves. pentair-ireland expects this will be forthcoming but cannot guarantee this. under irish law, dividends may only be paid (and share repurchases and redemptions must generally be funded) out of distributable reserves, which pentair-ireland will not have immediately following the closing of the redomicile. the creation of distributable reserves of pentair-ireland by way of a capital reduction of pentair-ireland requires the approval of the irish high court and, in connection with seeking such court approval, we are asking pentair shareholders to approve the creation of distributable reserves for pentair-ireland (through the reduction of the share premium account of pentair-ireland) at the extraordinary general meeting. the approval of the irish high court is expected within approximately six to ten weeks following the closing. we are not aware of any reason why the irish high court would not approve the creation of distributable reserves. however, the issuance of the required order is a matter for the discretion of the irish high court. there will also be no guarantee that the approval of the creation of distributable reserves for pentair-ireland by pentair shareholders will be obtained. approval of the creation of distributable reserves by the irish high court may also take substantially longer than pentair-ireland anticipates. in the event that distributable reserves of pentair-ireland are not created, no distributions by way of dividends, share repurchases or otherwise will be permitted under irish law until such time as the group has created sufficient distributable reserves from its trading activities. 20 transfers of pentair-ireland ordinary shares may be subject to irish stamp duty. for the majority of transfers of pentair-ireland shares, there will not be any irish stamp duty. however, irish stamp duty will become payable in respect of certain share transfers occurring after completion of the redomicile. a transfer of pentair-ireland shares from a seller who holds shares beneficially (i.e. through the depository trust company (the "dtc")) to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially will not be subject to irish stamp duty (unless the transfer involves a change in the nominee that is the record holder of the transferred shares). a transfer of pentair-ireland shares by a seller who holds shares directly (i.e. not through the dtc) to any buyer, or by a seller who holds the shares beneficially to a buyer who holds the acquired shares directly, may be subject to irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired, if higher) payable by the buyer. a shareholder who directly holds shares may transfer those shares into his or her own broker account to be held through the dtc (or vice versa) without giving rise to irish stamp duty provided that the shareholder has confirmed to pentair-ireland's transfer agent that there is no change in the ultimate beneficial ownership of the shares as a result of the transfer and the transfer is not in contemplation of a sale of the shares. because of the potential irish stamp duty on transfers of pentair-ireland shares, we strongly recommend that all directly registered pentair shareholders open broker accounts so they can transfer their shares into a broker account as soon as possible, and in any event prior to completion of the redomicile. we also strongly recommend that any person who wishes to acquire pentair-ireland shares after completion of the redomicile acquire such shares through the dtc or another securities depository. pentair-ireland does not intend to pay any stamp duty on these transactions. however, pentair-ireland's articles of association allow pentair-ireland, in its absolute discretion, to create an instrument of transfer and pay any stamp duty payable by a buyer. in the event of such payment, pentair-ireland reserves the right to (i) seek reimbursement from the buyer or seller (at its discretion), (ii) set-off the amount of the stamp duty against future dividends payable to the buyer or seller (at its discretion) and/or (iii) claim a lien against the pentair-ireland ordinary shares on which it has paid stamp duty. parties to a share transfer should not assume that any stamp duty arising in respect of a transaction in pentair-ireland ordinary shares will be paid by pentair-ireland. pentair-ireland ordinary shares, received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to irish capital acquisitions tax. irish capital acquisitions tax ( cat ) could apply to a gift or inheritance of pentair-ireland ordinary shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. this is because pentair-ireland shares will be regarded as property situated in ireland. the person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for cat. gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from cat. children have a tax-free threshold of 225,000 per lifetime in respect of taxable gifts or inheritances received from their parents. if pentair-ireland ordinary shares are not eligible for deposit and clearing within the facilities of the dtc, then transactions in pentair-ireland's securities may be disrupted. the facilities of the dtc are a widely-used mechanism that allow for rapid electronic transfers of securities between the participants in the dtc system, which include many large banks and brokerage firms. upon the completion of the redomicile, pentair-ireland ordinary shares will be eligible for deposit and clearing within the dtc system. pentair-ireland expects to enter into arrangements with the dtc whereby pentair-ireland will agree to indemnify the dtc for any stamp duty and/or stamp duty reserve tax that may be assessed upon it as a result of its service as a depository and clearing agency for pentair-ireland's ordinary shares. the dtc is not obligated to accept pentair-ireland ordinary shares for deposit and clearing within its facilities at the closing and, even if the dtc does initially accept pentair-ireland ordinary shares, it will generally have discretion to cease to act as a depository and clearing agency for pentair-ireland ordinary shares. if the dtc determined prior to the completion of the redomicile that pentair-ireland ordinary shares are not eligible for clearance within the dtc system, then we would not expect to complete the transactions contemplated by this proxy statement/prospectus in their current form. however, if the dtc determined at any time after the completion of the redomicile that pentair-ireland ordinary shares were not eligible for continued deposit and clearance within its facilities, then we believe pentair-ireland ordinary shares would not be eligible for continued listing on a u.s. securities exchange or inclusion in the standard &amp; poor's 500 index and trading in pentair-ireland ordinary shares would be disrupted. while pentair-ireland would pursue alternative arrangements to preserve its listing and maintain trading, any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of the pentair-ireland ordinary shares. the u.k.'s controlled foreign company legislation may apply to pentair-ireland. pentair-ireland is seeking confirmation from hm revenue and customs that either pentair-ireland will not be subject to the u.k.'s controlled foreign company ( cfc ) legislation because it does not satisfy the gateway test or that the rules have no material effect because any chargeable profits which pass through the gateway benefit from an applicable exemption. 21 broadly the u.k.'s cfc rules may subject to u.k. corporation tax profits in non-u.k. tax resident subsidiaries which pass through a gateway . although the rules are complex, profits of a non-u.k. tax resident company should not pass through the gateway unless the profits have been artificially diverted from the u.k. the rules should therefore not apply to ordinary trading activities outside the u.k. in relation to a finance company, if profits pass through the gateway , specific exemptions apply including the matched interest rules which broadly speaking will exempt profits from the u.k. cfc rules if u.k. members of pentair-ireland do not have net finance expenses as determined by the u.k.'s worldwide debt cap rules. upon completion of the redomicile, pentair-ireland intends to manage its affairs so that the u.k. cfc rules do not result in any material u.k. corporation tax liability. the treatment is intended to be discussed and agreed with hm revenue and customs, but if such agreement is not received and the u.k.'s cfc rules do indeed apply, this may adversely affect pentair-ireland's effective tax rate. we may choose to abandon the redomicile. we may decide to abandon the redomicile at any time prior to the extraordinary general meeting of pentair shareholders where we will seek shareholder approval of the merger agreement (the extraordinary general meeting ), and in some circumstances, after obtaining shareholder approval at the extraordinary general meeting. after the merger agreement is approved by our shareholders, we anticipate filing the application to effect the redomicile, unless one of the conditions to completing the redomicile fails to be satisfied and such failure would have a material adverse effect on the redomicile. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. periodically, we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of changes in interest rates. counterparties to all derivative contracts are major financial institutions. all instruments are entered into for other than trading purposes. the major accounting policies and utilization of these instruments is described more fully in item 8, note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. interest rate risk our debt portfolio as of december 31, 2013 , was comprised of debt predominantly denominated in u.s. dollars. this debt portfolio is comprised of 79% fixed-rate debt and 21% variable-rate debt. changes in interest rates have different impacts on the fixed and variable-rate portions of our debt portfolio. a change in interest rates on the fixed portion of the debt portfolio impacts the fair value but has no impact on interest incurred or cash flows. a change in interest rates on the variable portion of the debt portfolio impacts the interest incurred and cash flows but does not impact the net financial instrument position. 52 based on the fixed-rate debt included in our debt portfolio, as of december 31, 2013 , a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $99.1 million decrease or a $106.2 million increase in fair value, respectively. based on the variable-rate debt included in our debt portfolio as of december 31, 2013 , a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a $5.2 million increase in interest incurred. a decrease in our interest rates on our variable-rate debt of 52.2 basis points (to zero) would result in a decrease in interest incurred of $2.8 million . foreign currency risk we conduct business in various locations throughout the world and are subject to market risk due to changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar. periodically, we use derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. the functional currencies of our foreign operating locations are the local currency in the country of domicile. we manage these operating activities at the local level and revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are generally denominated in local currencies, thereby mitigating the risk associated with changes in foreign exchange. however, our results of operations and assets and liabilities are reported in u.s. dollars and thus will fluctuate with changes in exchange rates between such local currencies and the u.s. dollar. from time to time, we may enter into short duration foreign currency contracts to hedge foreign currency risks. as the majority of our foreign currency contracts have an original maturity date of less than one year, there is no material foreign currency risk. changes in the fair value of all derivatives are recognized immediately in income unless the derivative qualifies as a hedge of future cash flows. gains and losses related to a hedge are deferred and recorded in the consolidated balance sheets as a component of aoci and subsequently recognized in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) when the hedged item affects net income. 53risk factors 6 risk factors you should carefully consider all of the information in this document and the following risk factors before making an investment decision regarding our securities. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this document. risks relating to our business general global economic and business conditions affect demand for our products. we compete in various geographic regions and product markets around the world. among these, the most significant are global industrial markets and residential markets. many of our businesses have experienced periodic economic downturns. important factors for our businesses and the businesses of our customers include the overall strength of the economy and our customers' confidence in the economy, industrial and governmental capital spending, the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets, unemployment rates, availability of consumer and commercial financing, interest rates, and energy and commodity prices. the businesses of many of our industrial customers, particularly oil and gas companies, chemical and petrochemical companies, mining and general industrial companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. during such economic downturns, customers in these industries historically have tended to delay major capital projects, including expensive maintenance projects and upgrades. additionally, demand for our products and services may be affected by volatility in energy and commodity prices and fluctuating demand forecasts, as our customers may be more conservative in their capital planning, which may reduce demand for our products and services. while we attempt to minimize our exposure to economic or market fluctuations by serving a balanced mix of end markets and geographic regions, any of the above factors, individually or in the aggregate, or a significant or sustained downturn in a specific end market or geographic region could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we compete in attractive markets with a high level of competition, which may result in pressure on our profit margins and limit our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products and services are geographically diverse and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies and lower cost manufacturers. we compete based on technical expertise, reputation for quality and reliability, timeliness of delivery, previous installation history, contractual terms and price. some of our competitors, in particular smaller companies, attempt to compete based primarily on price, localized expertise and local relationships, especially with respect to products and applications that do not require a great deal of engineering or technical expertise. in addition, during economic downturns average selling prices tend to decrease as market participants compete more aggressively on price. if we are unable to continue to differentiate our products, services and 6 solutions, or if we are forced to cut prices or to incur additional costs to remain competitive, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our future growth is dependent upon our ability to continue to adapt our products, services and organization to meet the demands of local markets in both developed and emerging economies and by developing or acquiring new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. we operate in global markets that are characterized by customer demand that is often global in scope but localized in delivery. we compete with thousands of smaller regional and local companies that may be positioned to offer products produced at lower cost than ours, or to capitalize on highly localized relationships and knowledge that are difficult for us to replicate. also, in several emerging markets potential customers prefer local suppliers, in some cases because of existing relationships and in other cases because of local legal restrictions or incentives that favor local businesses. accordingly, our future success depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to adapt our products, services, organization, workforce and sales strategies to fit localities throughout the world, particularly in high growth emerging markets; identify emerging technological and other trends in our target end-markets; and develop or acquire competitive products and services and bring them to market quickly and cost-effectively. we have chosen to focus our growth initiatives in specific end markets and geographies, but we cannot provide assurance that these growth initiatives will be sufficient to offset revenue declines in other markets. the failure to effectively adapt our products or services could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business strategy includes acquiring companies and making investments that complement our existing businesses. these acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. we continue to analyze and evaluate the acquisition of strategic businesses or product lines with the potential to strengthen our industry position or enhance our existing set of product and services offerings. there can be no assurance that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable acquisition candidates in the future or that completed acquisitions will be successful. acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; difficulties in obtaining and verifying the financial statements and other business information of acquired businesses; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of acquired companies or of ours; assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including risks related to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ); and dilution of interests of holders of our shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our business operations. any acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as such acquisitions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. we are exposed to political, regulatory, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. sales outside of the u.s. for the year ended december 31, 2014 accounted for 50 percent of our net sales. further, most of our businesses obtain some products, components and raw materials from non-u.s. suppliers. accordingly, our business is subject to the political, regulatory, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. these risks include: changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; relatively more severe economic conditions in some international markets than in the united states; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; the difficulty of communicating and monitoring standards and directives across our global network of after-market service centers and manufacturing facilities; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements and restrictions; 7 the possibility of terrorist action affecting us or our operations; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other trade restrictions; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations in non-u.s. labor markets; changes in tax treaties, laws or rulings that could have an adverse impact on our effective tax rate; limitations on repatriation of earnings; the difficulty of protecting intellectual property in non-u.s. countries; and changes in and required compliance with a variety of non-u.s. laws and regulations. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. we cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business as a whole. volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. sales outside of the u.s. for the year ended december 31, 2014 accounted for 50 percent of our net sales. our financial statements reflect translation of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars. therefore, if the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the principle non-u.s. currencies from which we derive revenue as compared to a prior period, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will effectively be decreased to the extent of the change in currency valuations, and vice-versa. changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and in some instances, may have a significant effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our future revenue depends in part on the existence of and our ability to win new contracts for major capital projects. a significant portion of our revenue in technical solutions is derived from major capital projects. the number of such projects we may win in any year fluctuates, and is dependent upon the general availability of such projects and our ability to bid successfully for them. if negative market conditions arise, fewer such projects may be available, and if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or required governmental approvals we may not be able to pursue particular projects. either condition could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we maintain a sizable backlog and the timing of our conversion of revenue out of backlog is uncertain. our inability to convert backlog into revenue, whether due to factors that are within or outside of our control, could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the timing of our conversion of revenue out of backlog is subject to a variety of factors that may cause delays, many of which, including fluctuations in our customers' delivery schedules, are beyond our control. this is especially true with respect to major global capital projects, where the extended timeline for project completion and invoice satisfaction increases the likelihood for delays in the conversion of backlog related to modifications and order cancellations. such delays may lead to significant fluctuations in results of operations and cash flows from quarter to quarter, making it difficult to predict our financial performance on a quarterly basis. further, while we believe that historical order cancellations have not been significant, if we were to experience a significant amount of cancellations of or reductions in orders, it would reduce our backlog and, consequently, our future sales and results of operations. material cost and other inflation have adversely affected and could continue to affect our results of operations. in the past, we have experienced material cost and other inflation in a number of our businesses. we strive for productivity improvements and implement increases in selling prices to help mitigate cost increases in raw materials (especially metals and resins), energy and other costs such as pension, health care and insurance. we continue to implement operational initiatives in order to mitigate the impacts of this inflation and continuously reduce our costs. we cannot provide assurance, however, that these actions will be successful in managing our costs or increasing our productivity. continued cost inflation or failure of our initiatives to generate cost savings or improve productivity would likely negatively impact our results of operations. we are exposed to liquidated damages in many of our customer contracts. many of our customer contracts contain liquidated damages provisions in the event that we fail to perform our obligations thereunder in a timely manner or in accordance with agreed terms, conditions and standards. liquidated damages provisions typically provide for a payment to be made by us to the customer if we fail to deliver a product or service on time. we generally try to limit our exposure to a maximum penalty within a contract. however, because our products are often components of large and complex systems or capital projects, if we incur liquidated damages they may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 8 certain of our products require certifications by regulators or standards organizations, and our failure to obtain or maintain such certifications could negatively impact our business. in certain industries and for certain applications, in particular with respect to our pressure relief valves and valves used in the nuclear power generation industry, we must obtain certifications for our products or installations by regulators or standards organizations. as we expand our products offering into emerging markets, we will need to comply with additional and potentially different certification requirements. if we fail to obtain required certifications for our products, or if we fail to maintain such certifications on our products after they have been certified, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. intellectual property challenges may hinder our ability to develop, engineer and market our products. patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies, customer relationships, trademarks, trade names and brand names are important to our business. intellectual property protection, however, may not preclude competitors from developing products similar to ours or from challenging our names or products. our pending patent applications, and our pending copyright and trademark registration applications, may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. in addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. over the past few years, we have noticed an increasing tendency for participants in our markets to use conflicts over and challenges to intellectual property as a means to compete. patent and trademark challenges increase our costs to develop, engineer and market our products. we may need to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights and we may or may not be able to detect infringement by third parties. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights or register new patents, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have significant goodwill and intangible assets and future impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material negative impact on our financial results. we test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, by comparing the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units to their respective carrying values on their balance sheets. as of december 31, 2014 our goodwill and intangible assets were $6,350.0 million and represented 60% of our total assets. long-term declines in projected future cash flows could result in future goodwill and intangible asset impairments. because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. during 2014 , we recognized an impairment charge related to allocated amounts of goodwill, intangible assets, property, plant &amp; equipment and other non-current assets totaling $380.1 million , net of a $12.3 million tax benefit, representing our estimated loss on disposal of the water transport business in australia. the impairment charge is included in loss from sale / impairment of discontinued operations, net of tax in our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). we may be adversely affected by work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force. as of december 31, 2014 , approximately 10,000 of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils. although we believe that our relations with the labor unions and work councils that represent our employees are generally good and we have experienced no material strikes and only minor work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not experience in the future these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. seasonality of sales and weather conditions may adversely affect our financial results. we experience seasonal demand in a number of markets within process technologies, flow technologies and technical solutions. in process technologies, end-user demand for pool equipment in our primary markets follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs from april to august. in flow technologies, demand for residential water supply products, infrastructure and agricultural products follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs from april to august. the magnitude of the sales increase in both process technologies and flow technologies is partially mitigated by employing some advance sale or early buy programs (generally including extended payment terms and/or additional discounts). seasonal effects may vary from year to year and are impacted by weather patterns, particularly by temperatures, heavy flooding and droughts. technical solutions generally experiences increased demand for thermal protection products and services during the fall and winter months in the northern hemisphere. we cannot provide assurance that seasonality and weather conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 9 our share price may fluctuate significantly. we cannot predict the prices at which our shares may trade. the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain third-party financing as needed; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; changes in earnings estimates by us or securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and share price performance of other comparable companies; investor perception of us; natural or other environmental disasters that investors believe may affect us; overall market fluctuations; results from any material litigation, including asbestos claims, government investigations or environmental liabilities; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our shares. risks relating to legal, regulatory and compliance matters our subsidiaries are party to asbestos-related product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our subsidiaries, along with numerous other companies, are named as defendants in a substantial number of lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. these cases typically involve product liability claims based primarily on allegations of manufacture, sale or distribution of industrial products that either contained asbestos or were attached to or used with asbestos-containing components manufactured by third parties. each case typically names between dozens to hundreds of corporate defendants. historically, our subsidiaries have been identified as defendants in asbestos-related claims. we have experienced an increase in the number of asbestos-related lawsuits over the past several years, including lawsuits by plaintiffs with mesothelioma-related claims. a large percentage of these suits have not presented viable legal claims and, as a result, have been dismissed or withdrawn. our strategy has been, and continues to be, to mount a vigorous defense aimed at having unsubstantiated suits dismissed, and, only where appropriate, settling claims before trial. as of december 31, 2014 , there were approximately 3,400 claims pending against our subsidiaries. we cannot predict with certainty the extent to which we will be successful in litigating or otherwise resolving lawsuits in the future and we continue to evaluate different strategies related to asbestos claims filed against us including entity restructuring and judicial relief. unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 10 we currently record an estimated liability related to pending claims and future claims, including related defense costs, based on a number of key assumptions and estimation methodologies. these assumptions are derived from historical claims experience and reflect our expectations about future claim activities. these assumptions about the future may or may not prove accurate, and accordingly, we may incur additional liabilities in the future. a change in one or more of the inputs or the methodology that we use to estimate the asbestos liability could materially change the estimated liability and associated cash flows for pending and future claims. although it is possible that we will incur additional costs for asbestos claims filed beyond what we have currently recorded, we do not believe there is a reasonable basis for estimating those costs at this time. on an annual basis, we review, and update as appropriate, such estimated asbestos liabilities and assets and the underlying assumptions. such an update could result in a material change in such estimated assets and liabilities. we also record an asset that represents our best estimate of probable recoveries from insurers or other responsible parties for the estimated asbestos liabilities. there are significant assumptions made in developing estimates of asbestos-related recoveries, such as policy triggers, policy or contract interpretation, success in litigation in certain cases, the methodology for allocating claims to policies and the continued solvency of the insurers or other responsible parties. the assumptions underlying the recorded asset may not prove accurate, and as a result, actual performance by our insurers and other responsible parties could result in lower receivables and cash flows expected to reduce our asbestos costs. we believe it is possible that the cost of asbestos claims filed beyond our estimation period, net of expected recoveries, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption laws outside the united states. the fcpa and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the u.s. department of justice ( doj ) and the sec, increased enforcement activity by non-u.s. regulators and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. because many of our customers and end users are involved in infrastructure construction and energy production, they are often subject to increased scrutiny by regulators. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third-party intermediaries. in the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or agents have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the fcpa we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. prior to the merger, the flow control business was subject to investigations by the doj and the sec related to allegations that improper payments were made by the flow control business and other tyco subsidiaries and third-party intermediaries in recent years in violation of the fcpa. tyco reported to the doj and the sec the remedial measures that it had taken in response to the allegations and tyco's own internal investigations. as a result of discussions with the doj and sec aimed at resolving these matters, on september 24, 2012, tyco entered into a settlement with the sec and a non-prosecution agreement with the doj, pursuant to which the flow control business is for a three year period subject to yearly reporting to the doj concerning its continuing compliance efforts. as a result, the flow control business may be subject to investigations in other jurisdictions or suffer other criminal or civil penalties or adverse impacts, including being subject to lawsuits brought by private litigants, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our failure to satisfy international trade compliance regulations may adversely affect us. our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. certain of the products we manufacture are dual use products, which are products that may have both civil and military applications, or may otherwise be involved in weapons proliferation, and are often subject to more stringent export controls. from time to time, we obtain or receive information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. our policy mandates strict compliance with u.s. and non-u.s. trade laws applicable to our products. however, even when we are in strict compliance with law and our policies, we may suffer reputational damage if certain of our products are sold through various intermediaries to entities operating in sanctioned countries. when we receive information alleging improper activity, our policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting our findings to relevant governmental authorities. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our policies and procedures will always protect us from actions that would violate u.s. and/or non-u.s. laws. any improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal 11 penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and business prospects. we are exposed to potential environmental and other laws, liabilities and litigation. we are subject to u.s. federal, state, local and non-u.s. laws and regulations governing our environmental practices, public and worker health and safety, and the indoor and outdoor environment. compliance with these environmental, health and safety regulations could require us to satisfy environmental liabilities, increase the cost of manufacturing our products or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. any violations of these laws by us could cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities that could harm our operating results and cause our business to suffer. we are also required to comply with various environmental laws and maintain permits, some of which are subject to discretionary renewal from time to time, for many of our businesses and we could suffer if we are unable to renew existing permits or to obtain any additional permits that we may require. compliance with environmental requirements also could require significant operating or capital expenditures or result in significant operational restrictions. we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. we have been named as defendant, target or a potentially responsible party ( prp ) in a number of environmental clean-ups relating to our current or former business units. we have disposed of a number of businesses in recent years and in certain cases, we have retained responsibility and potential liability for certain environmental obligations. we have received claims for indemnification from certain purchasers. we may be named as a prp at other sites in the future for existing business units, as well as both divested and acquired businesses. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. certain environmental laws impose liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. we have projects underway at several current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from our past operations or by other businesses that previously owned or used the properties. the cost of cleanup and other environmental liabilities can be difficult to accurately predict. in addition, environmental requirements change and tend to become more stringent over time. thus, we cannot provide assurance that our eventual environmental clean-up costs and liabilities will not exceed the amount of our current reserves. we are exposed to potential regulatory, financial and reputational risks related to certain conflict minerals. in 2012, the sec adopted disclosure requirements related to certain minerals sourced from the democratic republic of congo or adjoining countries, as required by section 1502 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act. the final rules impose inquiry, diligence and disclosure obligations with respect to conflict minerals, defined as tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, that are necessary to the functionality of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by an sec reporting company. certain of these minerals are used extensively in components manufactured by our suppliers (or in components incorporated by our suppliers into components supplied to us) for use in our products. under the final rules, an sec reporting company must conduct a country of origin inquiry that is reasonably designed to determine whether any of the conflict minerals that are necessary to the functionality of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by the company originated in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. if any such conflict minerals originated in the democratic republic of congo or an adjoining country, the final rules require the issuer to exercise due diligence on the source of such conflict minerals and their chain of custody with the ultimate objective of determining whether the conflict minerals directly or indirectly financed or benefited armed groups in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. the issuer must then prepare and file with the sec a report regarding its diligence efforts, which we did on june 2, 2014. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs to conduct country of origin inquiries and to exercise such due diligence. we have a very large number of suppliers and our supply chain is very complex and multifaceted. while we have no intention to use minerals sourced from the democratic republic of congo or adjoining countries that are not conflict free (meaning that they do not contain conflict minerals that directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country), a significant number of our suppliers are small businesses, and those small businesses have limited or no resources to track their sources of minerals. as a result, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, ongoing significant difficulty in determining the country of origin or the source and chain of custody for all conflict minerals used in our products and disclosing that our products are conflict free. we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to verify the country of origin or the source and chain of custody for all conflict minerals used in our products or if we continue to be unable to disclose that our products are conflict free. the ongoing implementation of these rules may also affect the sourcing and availability of some minerals necessary to the manufacture of our products and may affect the availability and price of conflict minerals capable of certification as conflict free. accordingly, we have 12 incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs as a consequence of these rules, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. the u.s. congress and federal and state regulatory agencies have been considering legislation and regulatory proposals that would regulate and limit greenhouse gas emissions. it is uncertain whether, when and in what form a federal mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program may be adopted. similarly, certain countries have adopted the kyoto protocol and this and other existing international initiatives or those under consideration could affect our international operations. to the extent our customers, particularly those involved in the oil and gas, power generation, petrochemical processing or petroleum refining industries, are subject to any of these or other similar proposed or newly enacted laws and regulations, we are exposed to risks that the additional costs by customers to comply with such laws and regulations could impact their ability or desire to continue to operate at similar levels in certain jurisdictions as historically seen or as currently anticipated, which could negatively impact their demand for our products and services. in addition, new laws and regulations that might favor the increased use of non-fossil fuels, including nuclear, wind, solar and bio-fuels or that are designed to increase energy efficiency, could dampen demand for oil and gas production or power generation resulting in lower spending by customers for our products and services. these actions could also increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for raw materials and transportation. because it is uncertain what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. increased information technology security threats and more sophisticated computer crime pose a risk to our systems, networks, products and services. we are exposed to potential regulatory, financial and reputational risks relating to the protection of our data. we rely upon information technology systems and networks in connection with a variety of business activities, some of which are managed by third parties. additionally, we collect and store data that is sensitive to pentair and its employees, customers, dealers and suppliers. the secure operation of these information technology systems and networks, and the processing and maintenance of this data is critical to our business operations and strategy. information technology security threats -- from user error to attacks designed to gain unauthorized access to our systems, networks and data -- are increasing in frequency and sophistication. attacks may range from random attempts to coordinated and targeted attacks, including sophisticated computer crime and advanced persistent threats. these threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the data we process and maintain. establishing systems and processes to address these threats and changes in legal requirements relating to data collection and storage may increase our costs. we have identified attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems and networks. to our knowledge, no such attack was ultimately successful in exporting sensitive data or controlling sensitive systems or networks. should such an attack succeed it could expose us and our employees, customers, dealers and suppliers to misuse of information or systems, the compromising of confidential information, theft of assets, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operations disruptions, and breach of privacy, which may require notification under data privacy and other applicable laws. the occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our reputation, competitive position, business and results of operations. in addition, such breaches in security could result in litigation, regulatory action and potential liability and the costs and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures. our results of operations may be negatively impacted by litigation. our businesses expose us to potential litigation, such as product liability claims relating to the design, manufacture and sale of our products. while we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms or that this insurance will provide adequate protection against potential or previously existing liabilities. in addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. successful claims against us for significant amounts could materially and adversely affect our product reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks relating to the distribution and the merger we share responsibility for certain income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the date of the distribution. in connection with the distribution, we entered into a tax sharing agreement (the 2012 tax sharing agreement ) with tyco and the adt corporation ( adt ), which governs the rights and obligations of adt, tyco and us for certain pre-distribution tax liabilities, including tyco's obligations under a separate tax sharing agreement (the 2007 tax sharing agreement ) entered into by tyco, covidien ltd. ( covidien ) and te connectivity ltd. ( te connectivity ) in connection with the 2007 distributions of covidien and te connectivity by tyco (the 2007 separation ). 13 the 2007 tax sharing agreement governs the rights and obligations of tyco, covidien and te connectivity with respect to certain pre-2007 separation tax liabilities and certain tax liabilities arising in connection with the 2007 separation. more specifically, tyco, covidien and te connectivity share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to tyco's, covidien's and te connectivity's u.s. and certain non-u.s. 2007 and prior income tax returns. in addition, in the event that the 2007 separation or certain related transactions are determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the 2007 separation by tyco, covidien or te connectivity, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on tyco, covidien or te connectivity as a result thereof. if none of the companies is responsible for such failure, then tyco, covidien and te connectivity would be responsible for such taxes, in the same manner and in the same proportions as other shared tax liabilities under the 2007 tax sharing agreement. costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities are generally shared equally among the parties. the 2012 tax sharing agreement provides that we, tyco and adt will share (i) certain pre-distribution income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, tyco's and adt's u.s. income tax returns, and (ii) payments required to be made by tyco with respect to the 2007 tax sharing agreement (the liabilities in clauses (i) and (ii) collectively, shared tax liabilities ). tyco is responsible for the first $500 million of shared tax liabilities. as of december 31, 2014, tyco has paid $52.0 million of shared tax liabilities. we and adt will share 42% and 58%, respectively, of the next $225 million of shared tax liabilities. we, adt and tyco will share 20%, 27.5% and 52.5%, respectively, of shared tax liabilities above $725 million. costs and expenses associated with the management of shared tax liabilities will generally be shared 20% by us, 27.5% by adt and 52.5% by tyco. with respect to years prior to and including the 2007 separation, tax authorities have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments that are generally subject to the sharing provisions of the 2007 tax sharing agreement and which may require tyco to make a payment to a taxing authority, covidien or te connectivity. with respect to adjustments raised by the irs, although tyco has resolved a substantial number of these adjustments, a few significant items remain open with respect to the audit of the 1997 through 2004 years. as of the date hereof, tyco has not been able to resolve certain open items, which primarily involve the treatment of certain intercompany debt issued during the period, through the irs appeals process. the ultimate resolution of these matters is uncertain and could result in tyco being responsible for a greater amount than it expects under the 2007 tax sharing agreement. on july 1, 2013, tyco announced that the internal revenue service ( irs ) issued notices of deficiency ( tyco irs notices ) to tyco asserting that several of tyco's former u.s. subsidiaries collectively owe additional taxes in the aggregate amount of $883.3 million plus penalties of $154 million based on audits of the 1997 through 2000 tax years of tyco and its subsidiaries as they existed at that time. these amounts exclude interest and do not reflect the impact on subsequent periods if the irs challenge to tyco's tax filings as described below is ultimately successful. if the irs should successfully assert its position, our share of the collective liability, if any, would be determined pursuant to the 2007 tax sharing agreement and the 2012 tax sharing agreement. tyco has filed petitions with the u.s. tax court to contest the irs assessments. as we have previously disclosed, in connection with u.s. federal tax audits of tyco and its subsidiaries, the irs has previously raised issues and proposed tax adjustments for periods beginning with the 1997 tax year. the adjustments now asserted by the irs under the tyco irs notices primarily relate to the treatment of certain intercompany debt transactions. the irs has asserted in the tyco irs notices that substantially all of the intercompany debt originated during the 1997 - 2000 period should not be treated as debt for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and has therefore disallowed interest and related deductions recognized associated with that intercompany debt on the u.s. income tax returns for those periods totaling approximately $2.9 billion . if the irs is successful in asserting its claim, it would have an adverse impact on interest deductions related to the same tyco intercompany debt in subsequent time periods, totaling approximately $6.6 billion, which tyco has advised us that it expects the irs to disallow. under the 2012 tax sharing agreement, tyco has the right to administer, control, and settle all u.s. income tax audits for periods prior to and including the distribution. as mentioned above, tyco has filed petitions with the u.s. tax court to contest the irs assessments. any payment that tyco is required to make under the 2007 tax sharing agreement, including if the irs were to prevail with respect to the matter set forth above, could result in a material liability for us under the 2012 tax sharing agreement. to the extent we are responsible for any liability under the 2012 tax sharing agreement, and indirectly the 2007 tax sharing agreement, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods. 14 if the merger, distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we, our shareholders or tyco could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. pentair, inc. and tyco received private letter rulings from the irs in connection with the distribution and the merger regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distribution and the merger to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes: the distribution will qualify as tax-free under sections 355 and 361 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares; certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution will qualify for favorable treatment under the code; the merger will qualify as a reorganization under section 368(a) of the code; certain anticipated post-closing transactions will not prevent the tax-free treatment of the distribution or the merger; and section 367(a)(1) of the code will not cause the merger to be taxable to pentair, inc. shareholders (except for a u.s. shareholder who is or will be a five-percent transferee shareholder within the meaning of applicable treasury regulations but who does not enter into a gain recognition agreement" with the irs). in addition, tyco received a legal opinion confirming the tax-free status of the distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes and tyco and pentair, inc. received legal opinions to the effect that the merger will qualify as a reorganization under section 368(a) of the code and that section 367(a)(1) of the code will not cause the merger to be taxable to pentair, inc. shareholders (except for a u.s. shareholder who is or will be a five-percent transferee shareholder within the meaning of applicable treasury regulations but who does not enter into a gain recognition agreement with the irs). the private letter rulings and opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from us, tyco and pentair, inc. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution, the internal transactions or the merger should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distribution, the internal transactions or the merger should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in share or asset ownership after the merger. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, the distribution could be treated as a taxable dividend or capital gain to tyco shareholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and tyco shareholders could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. in addition, tyco would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of pentair ltd.'s ordinary shares distributed to tyco shareholders on the distribution date over tyco's tax basis in such ordinary shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, tyco could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution are taxable. if the merger ultimately is determined to be taxable, pentair, inc. shareholders would recognize taxable gain or loss on their disposition of pentair, inc. ordinary shares in the merger. under the terms of the 2012 tax sharing agreement, in the event the distribution, the adt distribution, the internal transactions or the merger were determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the distribution by us, adt or tyco, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed as a result thereof. if such failure is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, adt or tyco, then we, adt and tyco would be responsible for any taxes imposed as a result of such determination in the same manner and in the same proportions as we, adt and tyco are responsible for shared tax liabilities. such tax amounts could be significant. in the event that any party to the 2012 tax sharing agreement defaults in its obligation to pay certain taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party's obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party's taxes. in addition, if another party to the 2012 tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, tyco's and adt's tax liabilities. if the distribution or the merger is determined to be taxable for swiss withholding or other tax purposes, we could incur significant swiss withholding tax or other tax liabilities. generally, swiss withholding tax of 35% is due on dividends and similar distributions to tyco's shareholders, regardless of the place of residency of the shareholder. as of january 1, 2011, distributions to shareholders out of qualifying contributed surplus (kapitaleinlage) accumulated on or after january 1, 1997 are exempt from swiss withholding tax if certain conditions are met (kapitaleinlageprinzip). tyco has obtained a ruling from the swiss federal tax administration confirming that the distribution qualifies as payment out of such qualifying contributed surplus and no amount will be withheld by tyco when making the distribution. as a condition to closing of the merger, tyco obtained rulings from the swiss federal tax administration confirming: (i) that the merger will be a transaction that is generally tax-free for swiss federal, cantonal, and communal tax purposes (including with respect to swiss stamp tax and swiss withholding tax); (ii) the relevant swiss tax base of an acquisition subsidiary of ours 15 for swiss tax (including federal and cantonal and communal) purposes; (iii) the relevant amount of capital contribution reserves (kapitaleinlageprinzip) which will be exempt from swiss withholding tax in the event of a distribution to our shareholders after the merger; and (iv) that no swiss stamp tax will be levied on certain post-merger restructuring transactions. these tax rulings rely on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from tyco. notwithstanding these tax rulings, the swiss federal tax administration could determine on audit that the distribution or the merger or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction for withholding tax or other tax purposes if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated. if the distribution or the merger or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution ultimately are determined to be taxable for withholding tax or other tax purposes, we and tyco could incur material swiss withholding tax or other tax liabilities that could significantly detract from, or eliminate, the benefits of the distribution and the merger. in addition, we could become liable to indemnify tyco for part of any swiss withholding tax liabilities to the extent provided under the 2012 tax sharing agreement. risks relating to our liquidity disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect us, our customers and our suppliers by increasing funding costs or reducing availability of credit. in the normal course of our business, we may access credit markets for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, acquisitions, additions to working capital, repurchase of shares, capital expenditures and investments in our subsidiaries. although we expect to have sufficient liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets, which have occurred in the past and made financing terms for borrowers unattractive or unavailable. these factors may make it more difficult or expensive for us to access credit markets if the need arises. in addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for prospective customers to commence new projects, as customers and suppliers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. disruptions in the financial markets have had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slowdown in general economic activity that may continue to adversely affect our businesses. these disruptions may have other unknown adverse effects. one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our credit agreements and indentures contain customary financial covenants. our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and, in the case of credit facility lenders, terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, which could affect our financial condition, and may decrease our profitability. as of december 31, 2014 , we had $3.0 billion of total debt outstanding. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, subject to restrictions in our debt agreements. if our cash flow from operations is less than we anticipate, or if our cash requirements are more than we expect, we may require more financing. however, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. if we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of additional capital shares, the terms of the debt or capital shares issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our ordinary shares, particularly in the event of liquidation. the terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. if we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, the percentage ownership of existing shareholders in our company would decline. if we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, our financial condition could be adversely affected. our leverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our existing debt as well as any future debt that we may incur, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due, we may be forced to sell assets or take other disadvantageous actions, including (i) reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes or (ii) dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and 16 interest on our indebtedness. the lenders who hold such debt could also accelerate amounts due, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of any of our other debt. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation in ireland and tax residency in the united kingdom we are subject to changes in law and other factors that may not allow us to maintain a worldwide effective corporate tax rate that is competitive in our industry. while we believe that we should be able to maintain a worldwide effective corporate tax rate that is competitive in our industry, we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be in the future because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. also, the tax laws of the u.s., the u.k., ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our worldwide effective corporate tax rate. in particular, legislative action could be taken by the u.s., the u.k., ireland or the european union which could override tax treaties or modify tax statutes or regulations upon which we expect to rely and adversely affect our effective tax rate. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding our incorporation in ireland or limiting our ability as an irish company to maintain tax residency in the u.k. and take advantage of the tax treaties among the u.s., the u.k. and ireland, we could be subject to increased taxation, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods. a change in our tax residency could have a negative effect on our future profitability and taxes on dividends. under current irish legislation, a company is regarded as resident for tax purposes in ireland if it is centrally managed and controlled in ireland, or, in certain circumstances, if it is incorporated in ireland. under current u.k. legislation, a company that is centrally managed and controlled in the u.k. is regarded as resident in the u.k. for taxation purposes. where a company is treated as tax resident under the domestic laws of both the u.k. and ireland then the provisions of article 4(3) of the double tax convention between ireland and the u.k. provide that such enterprise shall be treated as resident only in the jurisdiction in which its place of effective management is situated. we have managed, and we intend to continue to manage, our affairs so that we are centrally managed and controlled in the u.k. and therefore have our tax residency only in the u.k. however, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to be resident only in the u.k. for tax purposes. it is possible that in the future, whether as a result of a change in law or the practice of any relevant tax authority or as a result of any change in the conduct of its affairs, we could become, or be regarded as having become resident in a jurisdiction other than the u.k. if we were considered to be a tax resident of ireland, we could become liable for irish corporation tax and any dividends paid by us could be subject to irish dividend withholding tax. irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the u.s. against us in ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in ireland. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies acts, which differ in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the u.s. transfers of our ordinary shares may be subject to irish stamp duty. transfers of our ordinary shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in the depository trust company ("dtc") will not be subject to irish stamp duty. however, if you hold your ordinary shares directly rather than beneficially through dtc, any transfer of your ordinary shares could be subject to irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired). payment of irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. we currently intend to pay, or cause one of our affiliates to pay, stamp duty in connection with share transfers made in the ordinary course of trading by a seller who holds shares directly to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially. in other 17 cases we may, in our absolute discretion, pay or cause one of our affiliates to pay any stamp duty. our articles of association provide that, in the event of any such payment, we (i) may seek reimbursement from the buyer, (ii) will have a lien against the shares acquired by such buyer and any dividends paid on such shares and (iii) may set-off the amount of the stamp duty against future dividends on such shares. parties to a share transfer may assume that any stamp duty arising in respect of a transaction in our shares has been paid unless one or both of such parties is otherwise notified by us. our ordinary shares, received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to irish capital acquisitions tax. irish capital acquisitions tax ( cat ) could apply to a gift or inheritance of our ordinary shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. this is because our shares will be regarded as property situated in ireland. the person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for cat. gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from cat. children have a tax-free threshold of 225,000 per lifetime in respect of taxable gifts or inheritances received from their parents. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. periodically, we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of changes in interest rates. counterparties to all derivative contracts are major financial institutions. all instruments are entered into for other than trading purposes. the major accounting policies and utilization of these instruments is described more fully in item 8, note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. interest rate risk our debt portfolio as of december 31, 2014 , was comprised of debt predominantly denominated in u.s. dollars. this debt portfolio is comprised of 67% fixed-rate debt and 33% variable-rate debt. changes in interest rates have different impacts on the fixed and variable-rate portions of our debt portfolio. a change in interest rates on the fixed portion of the debt portfolio impacts the fair value but has no impact on interest incurred or cash flows. a change in interest rates on the variable portion of the debt portfolio impacts the interest incurred and cash flows but does not impact the net financial instrument position. based on the fixed-rate debt included in our debt portfolio, as of december 31, 2014 , a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $92.5 million decrease or a $98.7 million increase in fair value, respectively. based on the variable-rate debt included in our debt portfolio as of december 31, 2014 , a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a $10.0 million increase in interest incurred. a decrease in our interest rates on our variable-rate debt of 68.6 basis points (to zero) would result in a decrease in interest incurred of $6.8 million . foreign currency risk we conduct business in various locations throughout the world and are subject to market risk due to changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar. periodically, we use derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. the functional currencies of our foreign operating locations are the local currency in the country of domicile. we manage these operating activities at the local level and revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are generally denominated in local currencies, thereby mitigating the risk associated with changes in foreign exchange. however, our results of operations and assets and liabilities are reported in u.s. dollars and thus will fluctuate with changes in exchange rates between such local currencies and the u.s. dollar. from time to time, we may enter into short duration foreign currency contracts to hedge foreign currency risks. as the majority of our foreign currency contracts have an original maturity date of less than one year, there is no material foreign currency risk. changes in the fair value of all derivatives are recognized immediately in income unless the derivative qualifies as a hedge of future cash flows. gains and losses related to a hedge are deferred and recorded in the consolidated balance sheets as a component of aoci and subsequently recognized in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) when the hedged item affects earnings. 47risk factors 5 risk factors you should carefully consider all of the information in this document and the following risk factors before making an investment decision regarding our securities. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this document. risks relating to our business general global economic and business conditions affect demand for our products. we compete in various geographic regions and product markets around the world. among these, the most significant are global industrial markets and residential markets. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in revenues and operating results due to economic and business cycles. important factors for our businesses and the businesses of our customers include the overall strength of the economy and our customers' confidence in the economy, industrial and governmental capital spending, the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets, unemployment rates, availability of consumer and commercial financing, interest rates, and energy and commodity prices. the businesses of many of our industrial customers, particularly oil and gas companies, chemical and petrochemical companies, mining and general industrial companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. while we attempt to minimize our exposure to economic or market fluctuations by serving a balanced mix of end markets and geographic regions, any of the above factors, individually or in the aggregate, or a significant or sustained downturn in a specific end market or geographic region could reduce demand for our products and services. 5 in particular, products sold by valves &amp; controls to energy-related businesses are cyclical in nature as the worldwide demand for oil and gas fluctuates. lower worldwide demand for oil and gas impacts the economics of oil and gas capital project investments, reducing the demand for our products. therefore, results of operations for any particular period are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for any future period. prices for oil and gas are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in the supply of, and demand for, oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of other economic factors that are beyond our control. since the latter half of 2014, the price of oil has dropped dramatically. a sustained depression of oil prices may result in the reduction or deferral of major capital projects, including significant maintenance projects and upgrades. lower levels of oil and gas maintenance spend and major capital project activity may result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we compete in attractive markets with a high level of competition, which may result in pressure on our profit margins and limit our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products and services are geographically diverse and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies and lower cost manufacturers. we compete based on technical expertise, reputation for quality and reliability, timeliness of delivery, previous installation history, contractual terms and price. some of our competitors, in particular smaller companies, attempt to compete based primarily on price, localized expertise and local relationships, especially with respect to products and applications that do not require a great deal of engineering or technical expertise. in addition, during economic downturns average selling prices tend to decrease as market participants compete more aggressively on price. if we are unable to continue to differentiate our products, services and solutions, or if we are forced to cut prices or to incur additional costs to remain competitive, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. sales outside of the u.s. for the year ended december 31, 2015 accounted for 52 percent of our net sales. our financial statements reflect translation of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars. therefore, if the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the principle non-u.s. currencies from which we derive revenue as compared to a prior period, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will effectively be decreased to the extent of the change in currency valuations, and vice-versa. during 2015, foreign currency translations had a 6.6 percent negative impact on our results of operations. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, most notably the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro, could continue to adversely affect our reported revenue in future periods. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the u.s. and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the u.s. our future growth is dependent upon our ability to continue to adapt our products, services and organization to meet the demands of local markets in both developed and emerging economies and by developing or acquiring new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. we operate in global markets that are characterized by customer demand that is often global in scope but localized in delivery. we compete with thousands of smaller regional and local companies that may be positioned to offer products produced at lower cost than ours, or to capitalize on highly localized relationships and knowledge that are difficult for us to replicate. also, in several emerging markets potential customers prefer local suppliers, in some cases because of existing relationships and in other cases because of local legal restrictions or incentives that favor local businesses. accordingly, our future success depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to adapt our products, services, organization, workforce and sales strategies to fit localities throughout the world, particularly in high growth emerging markets; identify emerging technological and other trends in our target end-markets; and develop or acquire competitive products and services and bring them to market quickly and cost-effectively. we have chosen to focus our growth initiatives in specific end markets and geographies, but we cannot provide assurance that these growth initiatives will be sufficient to offset revenue declines in other markets. the failure to effectively adapt our products or services could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 6 our business strategy includes acquiring businesses and making investments that complement our existing businesses. we may not be able to identify, finance and complete suitable acquisitions and investments, and any completed acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. we continue to analyze and evaluate the acquisition of strategic businesses or product lines with the potential to strengthen our industry position or enhance our existing set of product and service offerings. we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, obtain financing or have sufficient cash necessary for acquisitions or successfully complete acquisitions in the future or that completed acquisitions will be successful. acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrences, equity issuances, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; difficulties in obtaining and verifying the financial statements and other business information of acquired businesses; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of acquired companies or of ours; assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including risks related to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa"); and dilution of interests of holders of our shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our business operations. any acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as such acquisitions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of erico global company and any benefit may take longer to realize than we expect. on september 18, 2015, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of erico for approximately $1.8 billion . the erico acquisition involves the integration of erico's operations with our existing operations, and there are uncertainties inherent in such an integration. we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating erico's operations. delays or unexpected difficulties in the integration process could adversely affect our business, financial results and financial condition. even if we are able to integrate erico's operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of revenue synergies, cost savings and operational efficiencies that we expect or the achievement of these benefits within a reasonable period of time. in addition, we may not have identified all liabilities and other factors regarding erico that could produce unintended and unexpected consequences for us. undiscovered factors could result in us incurring financial liabilities, which could be material, and in us not achieving the expected benefits from the erico acquisition within our desired time frames, if at all. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our business initiatives. during 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , we initiated and continued execution of certain business initiatives aimed at reducing our fixed cost structure and realigning our business. as a result, we have incurred substantial expense, including restructuring charges. we may not be able to achieve the operating efficiencies to reduce costs or realize benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with these initiatives. if we are unable to execute these initiatives as planned, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations . we are exposed to political, regulatory, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. sales outside of the u.s. for the year ended december 31, 2015 accounted for 52 percent of our net sales. further, most of our businesses obtain some products, components and raw materials from non-u.s. suppliers. accordingly, our business is subject to the political, regulatory, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. these risks include: changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; relatively more severe economic conditions in some international markets than in the united states; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; 7 the difficulty of communicating and monitoring standards and directives across our global network of after-market service centers and manufacturing facilities; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements and restrictions; the possibility of terrorist action affecting us or our operations; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other trade restrictions; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations in non-u.s. labor markets; changes in tax treaties, laws or rulings that could have an adverse impact on our effective tax rate; limitations on repatriation of earnings; the difficulty of protecting intellectual property in non-u.s. countries; and changes in and required compliance with a variety of non-u.s. laws and regulations. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. we cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business as a whole. our future revenue depends in part on the existence of and our ability to win new contracts for major capital projects. a significant portion of our revenue in technical solutions is derived from major capital projects. the number of such projects we may win in any year fluctuates, and is dependent upon the general availability of such projects and our ability to bid successfully for them. if negative market conditions arise, fewer such projects may be available, and if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or required governmental approvals we may not be able to pursue particular projects. either condition could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we maintain a sizable backlog and the timing of our conversion of revenue out of backlog is uncertain. our inability to convert backlog into revenue, whether due to factors that are within or outside of our control, could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the timing of our conversion of revenue out of backlog is subject to a variety of factors that may cause delays, many of which, including fluctuations in our customers' delivery schedules, are beyond our control. this is especially true with respect to major global capital projects, where the extended timeline for project completion and invoice satisfaction increases the likelihood for delays in the conversion of backlog related to modifications and order cancellations. such delays may lead to significant fluctuations in results of operations and cash flows from quarter to quarter, making it difficult to predict our financial performance on a quarterly basis. further, while we believe that historical order cancellations have not been significant, if we were to experience a significant amount of cancellations of or reductions in orders, it would reduce our backlog and, consequently, our future sales and results of operations. material cost and other inflation have adversely affected and could continue to affect our results of operations. in the past, we have experienced material cost and other inflation in a number of our businesses. we strive for productivity improvements and implement increases in selling prices to help mitigate cost increases in raw materials (especially metals and resins), energy and other costs such as pension, health care and insurance. we continue to implement operational initiatives in order to mitigate the impacts of this inflation and continuously reduce our costs. we cannot provide assurance, however, that these actions will be successful in managing our costs or increasing our productivity. continued cost inflation or failure of our initiatives to generate cost savings or improve productivity would likely negatively impact our results of operations. we are exposed to liquidated damages in many of our customer contracts. many of our customer contracts contain liquidated damages provisions in the event that we fail to perform our obligations thereunder in a timely manner or in accordance with agreed terms, conditions and standards. liquidated damages provisions typically provide for a payment to be made by us to the customer if we fail to deliver a product or service on time. we generally try to limit our exposure to a maximum penalty within a contract. however, because our products are often components of large and complex systems or capital projects, if we incur liquidated damages they may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 8 certain of our products require certifications by regulators or standards organizations, and our failure to obtain or maintain such certifications could negatively impact our business. in certain industries and for certain applications, in particular with respect to our pressure relief valves and valves used in the nuclear power generation industry, we must obtain certifications for our products or installations by regulators or standards organizations. as we expand our products offering into emerging markets, we will need to comply with additional and potentially different certification requirements. if we fail to obtain required certifications for our products, or if we fail to maintain such certifications on our products after they have been certified, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. intellectual property challenges may hinder our ability to develop, engineer and market our products. patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies, customer relationships, trademarks, trade names and brand names are important to our business. intellectual property protection, however, may not preclude competitors from developing products similar to ours or from challenging our names or products. our pending patent applications, and our pending copyright and trademark registration applications, may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. in addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. over the past few years, we have noticed an increasing tendency for participants in our markets to use conflicts over and challenges to intellectual property as a means to compete. patent and trademark challenges increase our costs to develop, engineer and market our products. we may need to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights and we may or may not be able to detect infringement by third parties. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights or register new patents, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have significant goodwill and intangible assets and future impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material negative impact on our financial results. we test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on at least an annual basis, and more frequently if circumstances warrant, by comparing the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units to their respective carrying values on their balance sheets. as of december 31, 2015 our goodwill and intangible assets were $7,745.5 million and represented 65% of our total assets. long-term declines in projected future cash flows could result in future goodwill and intangible asset impairments. for example, we recognized a pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge of $554.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 related to goodwill and trade name intangible assets in valves &amp; controls. because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we may be adversely affected by work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force. as of december 31, 2015 , approximately 10,200 of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils. although we believe that our relations with the labor unions and work councils that represent our employees are generally good and we have experienced no material strikes and only minor work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not experience in the future these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. seasonality of sales and weather conditions may adversely affect our financial results. we experience seasonal demand in a number of markets within flow &amp; filtration solutions, water quality systems and technical solutions. in flow &amp; filtration solutions, demand for residential water supply products, infrastructure and agricultural products follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs from april to august. in water quality systems, end-user demand for pool equipment in our primary markets follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs from april to august. the magnitude of the sales increase in both flow &amp; filtration solutions and water quality systems is partially mitigated by employing some advance sale or "early buy" programs (generally including extended payment terms and/or additional discounts). seasonal effects may vary from year to year and are impacted by weather patterns, particularly by temperatures, heavy flooding and droughts. technical solutions generally experiences increased demand for thermal protection products and services during the fall and winter months in the northern hemisphere and increased demand for electrical fastening products during the spring and summer months in the northern hemisphere. we cannot provide assurance that seasonality and weather conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our share price may fluctuate significantly. we cannot predict the prices at which our shares may trade. the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; 9 success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain third-party financing as needed; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; changes in earnings estimates by us or securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and share price performance of other comparable companies; investor perception of us; natural or other environmental disasters that investors believe may affect us; overall market fluctuations; results from any material litigation, including asbestos claims, government investigations or environmental liabilities; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our shares. risks relating to legal, regulatory and compliance matters our subsidiaries are party to asbestos-related product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our subsidiaries, along with numerous other companies, are named as defendants in a substantial number of lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. these cases typically involve product liability claims based primarily on allegations of manufacture, sale or distribution of industrial products that either contained asbestos or were attached to or used with asbestos-containing components manufactured by third parties. each case typically names between dozens to hundreds of corporate defendants. historically, our subsidiaries have been identified as defendants in asbestos-related claims. we have experienced an increase in the number of asbestos-related lawsuits over the past several years, including lawsuits by plaintiffs with mesothelioma-related claims. a large percentage of these suits have not presented viable legal claims and, as a result, have been dismissed or withdrawn. our strategy has been, and continues to be, to mount a vigorous defense aimed at having unsubstantiated suits dismissed, and, only where appropriate, settling claims before trial. as of december 31, 2015 , there were approximately 4,100 claims pending against our subsidiaries. we cannot predict with certainty the extent to which we will be successful in litigating or otherwise resolving lawsuits in the future and we continue to evaluate different strategies related to asbestos claims filed against us including entity restructuring and judicial relief. unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we currently record an estimated liability related to pending claims and future claims, including related defense costs, based on a number of key assumptions and estimation methodologies. these assumptions are derived from historical claims experience and reflect our expectations about future claim activities. these assumptions about the future may or may not prove accurate, and accordingly, we may incur additional liabilities in the future. a change in one or more of the inputs or the methodology that we use to estimate the asbestos liability could materially change the estimated liability and associated cash flows for pending and future claims. although it is possible that we will incur additional costs for asbestos claims filed beyond what we have currently recorded, we do not believe there is a reasonable basis for estimating those costs at this time. on an annual basis, we review, and update as appropriate, such estimated asbestos liabilities and assets and the underlying assumptions. such an update could result in a material change in such estimated assets and liabilities. we also record an asset that represents our best estimate of probable recoveries from insurers or other responsible parties for the estimated asbestos liabilities. there are significant assumptions made in developing estimates of asbestos-related recoveries, such as policy triggers, policy or contract interpretation, success in litigation in certain cases, the methodology for allocating claims to policies and the continued solvency of the insurers or other responsible parties. the assumptions underlying the recorded asset may not prove accurate, and as a result, actual performance by our insurers and other responsible parties could result in lower receivables and cash flows expected to reduce our asbestos costs. we believe it is possible that the 10 cost of asbestos claims filed beyond our estimation period, net of expected recoveries, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption laws outside the united states. the fcpa and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the u.s. department of justice ("doj") and the sec, increased enforcement activity by non-u.s. regulators and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. because many of our customers and end users are involved in infrastructure construction and energy production, they are often subject to increased scrutiny by regulators. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third-party intermediaries. in the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or agents have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the fcpa we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. prior to the merger, the flow control business was subject to investigations by the doj and the sec related to allegations that improper payments were made by the flow control business and other tyco subsidiaries and third-party intermediaries in recent years in violation of the fcpa. tyco reported to the doj and the sec the remedial measures that it had taken in response to the allegations and tyco's own internal investigations. as a result of discussions with the doj and sec aimed at resolving these matters, on september 24, 2012, tyco entered into a settlement with the sec and a non-prosecution agreement with the doj. as a result, the flow control business may be subject to investigations in other jurisdictions or suffer other criminal or civil penalties or adverse impacts, including being subject to lawsuits brought by private litigants, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our failure to satisfy international trade compliance regulations may adversely affect us. our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. certain of the products we manufacture are "dual use" products, which are products that may have both civil and military applications, or may otherwise be involved in weapons proliferation, and are often subject to more stringent export controls. from time to time, we obtain or receive information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. our policy mandates strict compliance with u.s. and non-u.s. trade laws applicable to our products. however, even when we are in strict compliance with law and our policies, we may suffer reputational damage if certain of our products are sold through various intermediaries to entities operating in sanctioned countries. when we receive information alleging improper activity, our policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting our findings to relevant governmental authorities. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our policies and procedures will always protect us from actions that would violate u.s. and/or non-u.s. laws. any improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and business prospects. we are exposed to potential environmental and other laws, liabilities and litigation. we are subject to u.s. federal, state, local and non-u.s. laws and regulations governing our environmental practices, public and worker health and safety, and the indoor and outdoor environment. compliance with these environmental, health and safety regulations could require us to satisfy environmental liabilities, increase the cost of manufacturing our products or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. any violations of these laws by us could cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities that could harm our operating results and cause our business to suffer. we are also required to comply with various environmental laws and maintain permits, some of which are subject to discretionary renewal from time to time, for many of our businesses and we could suffer if we are unable to renew existing permits or to obtain any additional permits that we may require. compliance with environmental requirements also could require significant operating or capital expenditures or result in significant operational restrictions. we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. we have been named as defendant, target or a potentially responsible party ("prp") in a number of environmental clean-ups relating to our current or former business units. we have disposed of a number of businesses in recent years and in certain 11 cases, we have retained responsibility and potential liability for certain environmental obligations. we have received claims for indemnification from certain purchasers. we may be named as a prp at other sites in the future for existing business units, as well as both divested and acquired businesses. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. certain environmental laws impose liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. we have projects underway at several current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from our past operations or by other businesses that previously owned or used the properties. the cost of cleanup and other environmental liabilities can be difficult to accurately predict. in addition, environmental requirements change and tend to become more stringent over time. thus, we cannot provide assurance that our eventual environmental clean-up costs and liabilities will not exceed the amount of our current reserves. we are exposed to potential regulatory, financial and reputational risks related to certain "conflict minerals." in 2012, the sec adopted disclosure requirements related to certain minerals sourced from the democratic republic of congo or adjoining countries, as required by section 1502 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act. the final rules impose inquiry, diligence and disclosure obligations with respect to "conflict minerals," defined as tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, that are necessary to the functionality of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by an sec reporting company. certain of these minerals are used extensively in components manufactured by our suppliers (or in components incorporated by our suppliers into components supplied to us) for use in our products. under the final rules, an sec reporting company must conduct a country of origin inquiry that is reasonably designed to determine whether any of the "conflict minerals" that are necessary to the functionality of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by the company originated in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. if any such "conflict minerals" originated in the democratic republic of congo or an adjoining country, the final rules require the issuer to exercise due diligence on the source of such "conflict minerals" and their chain of custody with the ultimate objective of determining whether the "conflict minerals" directly or indirectly financed or benefited armed groups in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. the issuer must then prepare and file with the sec annually a report regarding its diligence efforts, which we have done since the sec's reporting requirements became effective. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs to conduct country of origin inquiries and to exercise such due diligence. we have a very large number of suppliers and our supply chain is very complex and multifaceted. while we have no intention to use minerals sourced from the democratic republic of congo or adjoining countries that are not "conflict free" (meaning that they do not contain "conflict minerals" that directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country), a significant number of our suppliers are small businesses, and those small businesses have limited or no resources to track their sources of minerals. as a result, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, ongoing significant difficulty in determining the country of origin or the source and chain of custody for all "conflict minerals" used in our products and disclosing that our products are "conflict free." we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to verify the country of origin or the source and chain of custody for all "conflict minerals" used in our products or if we continue to be unable to disclose that our products are "conflict free." the ongoing implementation of these rules may also affect the sourcing and availability of some minerals necessary to the manufacture of our products and may affect the availability and price of "conflict minerals" capable of certification as "conflict free." accordingly, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs as a consequence of these rules, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. the u.s. congress and federal and state regulatory agencies have been considering legislation and regulatory proposals that would regulate and limit greenhouse gas emissions. it is uncertain whether, when and in what form a federal mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program may be adopted. similarly, certain countries have adopted the kyoto protocol and this and other existing international initiatives or those under consideration could affect our international operations. to the extent our customers, particularly those involved in the oil and gas, power generation, petrochemical processing or petroleum refining industries, are subject to any of these or other similar proposed or newly enacted laws and regulations, we are exposed to risks that the additional costs by customers to comply with such laws and regulations could impact their ability or desire to continue to operate at similar levels in certain jurisdictions as historically seen or as currently anticipated, which could negatively impact their demand for our products and services. in addition, new laws and regulations that might favor the increased use of non-fossil fuels, including nuclear, wind, solar and bio-fuels or that are designed to increase energy efficiency, could dampen demand for oil and gas production or power generation resulting in lower spending by customers for our products and services. these actions could also increase costs associated with 12 our operations, including costs for raw materials and transportation. because it is uncertain what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. increased information technology security threats and more sophisticated computer crime pose a risk to our systems, networks, products and services. we are exposed to potential regulatory, financial and reputational risks relating to the protection of our data. we rely upon information technology systems and networks in connection with a variety of business activities, some of which are managed by third parties. additionally, we collect and store data that is sensitive to pentair and its employees, customers, dealers and suppliers. the secure operation of these information technology systems and networks, and the processing and maintenance of this data is critical to our business operations and strategy. information technology security threats -- from user error to attacks designed to gain unauthorized access to our systems, networks and data -- are increasing in frequency and sophistication. attacks may range from random attempts to coordinated and targeted attacks, including sophisticated computer crime and advanced persistent threats. these threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the data we process and maintain. establishing systems and processes to address these threats and changes in legal requirements relating to data collection and storage may increase our costs. we have identified attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems and networks. to our knowledge, no such attack was ultimately successful in exporting sensitive data or controlling sensitive systems or networks. should such an attack succeed it could expose us and our employees, customers, dealers and suppliers to misuse of information or systems, the compromising of confidential information, theft of assets, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operations disruptions, and breach of privacy, which may require notification under data privacy and other applicable laws. the occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our reputation, competitive position, business and results of operations. in addition, such breaches in security could result in litigation, regulatory action and potential liability and the costs and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures. our results of operations may be negatively impacted by litigation. our businesses expose us to potential litigation, such as product liability claims relating to the design, manufacture and sale of our products. while we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms or that this insurance will provide adequate protection against potential or previously existing liabilities. in addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. successful claims against us for significant amounts could materially and adversely affect our product reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks relating to the distribution and the merger we share responsibility for certain income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the date of the distribution. in connection with the distribution, we entered into a tax sharing agreement (the "2012 tax sharing agreement") with tyco and the adt corporation ("adt"), which governs the rights and obligations of adt, tyco and us for certain pre-distribution tax liabilities, including tyco's obligations under a separate tax sharing agreement (the "2007 tax sharing agreement") entered into by tyco, covidien ltd. (now known as medtronic plc, "medtronic") and te connectivity ltd. ("te connectivity") in connection with the 2007 distributions of medtronic and te connectivity by tyco (the "2007 separation"). the 2007 tax sharing agreement governs the rights and obligations of tyco, medtronic and te connectivity with respect to certain pre-2007 separation tax liabilities and certain tax liabilities arising in connection with the 2007 separation. more specifically, tyco, medtronic and te connectivity share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to tyco's, medtronic's and te connectivity's u.s. and certain non-u.s. 2007 and prior income tax returns. in addition, in the event that the 2007 separation or certain related transactions are determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the 2007 separation by tyco, medtronic or te connectivity, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on tyco, medtronic or te connectivity as a result thereof. if none of the companies is responsible for such failure, then tyco, medtronic and te connectivity would be responsible for such taxes, in the same manner and in the same proportions as other shared tax liabilities under the 2007 tax sharing agreement. costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities are generally shared equally among the parties. the 2012 tax sharing agreement provides that we, tyco and adt will share (i) certain pre-distribution income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, tyco's and adt's u.s. income tax returns, and (ii) payments required to be made by tyco with respect to the 2007 tax sharing agreement (the liabilities in clauses (i) and (ii) collectively, "shared tax liabilities"). tyco is responsible for the first $500 million of shared tax liabilities. as of december 31, 2015, tyco has paid $63.0 million of shared tax liabilities. we and adt will share 42% and 58%, respectively, of the next $225 million of shared tax liabilities. we, adt and tyco will share 20%, 27.5% and 52.5%, respectively, of shared tax liabilities above $725 million. costs and expenses associated with the management of shared tax liabilities will generally be shared 20% by us, 27.5% by adt and 52.5% by tyco. 13 tax authorities, including the internal revenue service ("irs"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments, in particular with respect to tax years preceding the 2007 separation, in connection with examinations of tyco's and its subsidiaries' income tax returns. the issues and proposed adjustments are generally subject to the sharing provisions of the 2007 tax sharing agreement which may require tyco to make a payment to a taxing authority, medtronic or te connectivity. in connection with u.s. federal tax audits, the irs has raised a number of issues and proposed adjustments for periods beginning with the 1997 tax year. although tyco has resolve substantially all of the issues and adjustments proposed by the irs for tax years through 2007, it has not been able to resolve matters related to the treatment of certain intercompany debt transactions during the period. as described below, tyco has entered into a settlement with the irs intended to resolve the intercompany debt issues for tyco's 1997 - 2000 audit cycle; however, the ultimate resolution of these matters is uncertain and could result in tyco being responsible for a greater amount than it expects under the 2007 tax sharing agreement. on july 1, 2013, tyco announced that the irs issued notices of deficiency ("tyco irs notices") to tyco asserting that several of tyco's former u.s. subsidiaries collectively owe additional taxes of $883.3 million plus penalties of $154 million based on audits of the 1997 through 2000 tax years of tyco and its subsidiaries as they existed at that time. these amounts exclude interest and do not reflect the impact on subsequent periods if the irs position described below is ultimately successful. the irs asserted in the tyco irs notices that substantially all of tyco's intercompany debt originated during the 1997 - 2000 period should not be treated as debt for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and has disallowed interest and related deductions recognized on u.s. income tax returns for those periods totaling approximately $2.9 billion . if the irs is successful in asserting its claim, it would have an adverse impact on interest deductions related to the same tyco intercompany debt in subsequent time periods, totaling approximately $6.6 billion , which tyco has advised us that it expects the irs to disallow. under the 2012 tax sharing agreement, tyco has the right to administer, control, and settle all u.s. income tax audits for periods prior to and including the distribution. tyco has filed petitions with the u.s. tax court contesting the irs proposed adjustments and a trial date has been set for october 2016. on january 19, 2016, tyco announced that it had entered into stipulations of settled issues with the irs intended to resolve all disputes related to the intercompany debt issues for tyco's 1997 - 2000 audit cycle currently before the u.s. tax court. the stipulations of settled issues are contingent upon the irs appeals division applying the same settlement to all intercompany debt issues on appeal for subsequent audit cycles (2001 - 2007) and, if applicable, review by the u.s. congress joint committee on taxation. tyco further disclosed that if finalized, the tentative resolution would cover all aspects of the controversy described above and before the appeals division of the irs, and would result in a total cash payment to the irs in the range of $475 million to $525 million, which includes all interest and penalties, and that this payment would be subject to the sharing formulas described above in the 2007 and 2012 tax sharing agreements with pentair not being responsible for any payment related to this amount. however, we cannot provide any assurance that the conditions precedent to this settlement will be met, that the intercompany debt dispute is settled with the irs or that the irs will consistently apply the terms of the settlement to all of tyco's u.s. income tax returns filed subsequent to 2000. if the irs should successfully assert its position, our share of the collective liability, if any, would be determined pursuant to the 2007 tax sharing agreement and the 2012 tax sharing agreement. any payment that tyco is required to make under the 2007 tax sharing agreement, including if the irs were to prevail with respect to the matter set forth above, could result in a material liability for us under the 2012 tax sharing agreement. to the extent we are responsible for any liability under the 2012 tax sharing agreement, and indirectly the 2007 tax sharing agreement, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods. if the merger, distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we, our shareholders or tyco could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. pentair, inc. and tyco received private letter rulings from the irs in connection with the distribution and the merger regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distribution and the merger to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes: the distribution will qualify as tax-free under sections 355 and 361 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the "code"), except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares; certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution will qualify for favorable treatment under the code; the merger will qualify as a reorganization under section 368(a) of the code; certain anticipated post-closing transactions will not prevent the tax-free treatment of the distribution or the merger; and section 367(a)(1) of the code will not cause the merger to be taxable to pentair, inc. shareholders (except for a u.s. shareholder who is or will be a "five-percent transferee shareholder" within the meaning of applicable treasury regulations but who does not enter into a "gain recognition agreement" with the irs). in addition, tyco received a legal opinion confirming the tax-free status of the distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes and tyco and pentair, inc. received legal opinions to the effect that the merger will qualify as a reorganization under section 368(a) of the code and that section 367(a)(1) of the code will not cause the merger to be taxable to pentair, inc. shareholders (except for a u.s. shareholder who is or will be a "five-percent transferee shareholder" within the meaning of applicable treasury 14 regulations but who does not enter into a "gain recognition agreement" with the irs). the private letter rulings and opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from us, tyco and pentair, inc. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution, the internal transactions or the merger should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distribution, the internal transactions or the merger should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in share or asset ownership after the merger. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, the distribution could be treated as a taxable dividend or capital gain to tyco shareholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and tyco shareholders could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. in addition, tyco would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of pentair ltd.'s ordinary shares distributed to tyco shareholders on the distribution date over tyco's tax basis in such ordinary shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, tyco could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution are taxable. if the merger ultimately is determined to be taxable, pentair, inc. shareholders would recognize taxable gain or loss on their disposition of pentair, inc. ordinary shares in the merger. under the terms of the 2012 tax sharing agreement, in the event the distribution, the adt distribution, the internal transactions or the merger were determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the distribution by us, adt or tyco, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed as a result thereof. if such failure is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, adt or tyco, then we, adt and tyco would be responsible for any taxes imposed as a result of such determination in the same manner and in the same proportions as we, adt and tyco are responsible for shared tax liabilities. such tax amounts could be significant. in the event that any party to the 2012 tax sharing agreement defaults in its obligation to pay certain taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party's obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party's taxes. in addition, if another party to the 2012 tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, tyco's and adt's tax liabilities. if the distribution or the merger is determined to be taxable for swiss withholding or other tax purposes, we could incur significant swiss withholding tax or other tax liabilities. generally, swiss withholding tax of 35% is due on dividends and similar distributions to tyco's shareholders, regardless of the place of residency of the shareholder. as of january 1, 2011, distributions to shareholders out of qualifying contributed surplus (kapitaleinlage) accumulated on or after january 1, 1997 are exempt from swiss withholding tax if certain conditions are met (kapitaleinlageprinzip). tyco has obtained a ruling from the swiss federal tax administration confirming that the distribution qualifies as payment out of such qualifying contributed surplus and no amount will be withheld by tyco when making the distribution. as a condition to closing of the merger, tyco obtained rulings from the swiss federal tax administration confirming: (i) that the merger will be a transaction that is generally tax-free for swiss federal, cantonal, and communal tax purposes (including with respect to swiss stamp tax and swiss withholding tax); (ii) the relevant swiss tax base of an acquisition subsidiary of ours for swiss tax (including federal and cantonal and communal) purposes; (iii) the relevant amount of capital contribution reserves (kapitaleinlageprinzip) which will be exempt from swiss withholding tax in the event of a distribution to our shareholders after the merger; and (iv) that no swiss stamp tax will be levied on certain post-merger restructuring transactions. these tax rulings rely on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from tyco. notwithstanding these tax rulings, the swiss federal tax administration could determine on audit that the distribution or the merger or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction for withholding tax or other tax purposes if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated. if the distribution or the merger or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution ultimately are determined to be taxable for withholding tax or other tax purposes, we and tyco could incur material swiss withholding tax or other tax liabilities that could significantly detract from, or eliminate, the benefits of the distribution and the merger. in addition, we could become liable to indemnify tyco for part of any swiss withholding tax liabilities to the extent provided under the 2012 tax sharing agreement. 15 risks relating to our liquidity disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect us, our customers and our suppliers by increasing funding costs or reducing availability of credit. in the normal course of our business, we may access credit markets for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, acquisitions, additions to working capital, repurchase of shares, capital expenditures and investments in our subsidiaries. although we expect to have sufficient liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets, which have occurred in the past and made financing terms for borrowers unattractive or unavailable. these factors may make it more difficult or expensive for us to access credit markets if the need arises. in addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for prospective customers to commence new projects, as customers and suppliers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. disruptions in the financial markets have had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slowdown in general economic activity that may continue to adversely affect our businesses. these disruptions may have other unknown adverse effects. one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our credit agreements and indentures contain customary financial covenants, including those that limit the amount of our debt, which may restrict the operations of our business and our ability to incur additional debt to finance acquisitions. our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and, in the case of credit facility lenders, terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, which could affect our financial condition, and may decrease our profitability. as of december 31, 2015 , we had $4.7 billion of total debt outstanding. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, subject to restrictions in our debt agreements. if our cash flow from operations is less than we anticipate, if our cash requirements are more than we expect, or if we intend to finance acquisitions, we may require more financing. however, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. if we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of additional capital shares, the terms of the debt or capital shares issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our ordinary shares, particularly in the event of liquidation. the terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. if we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, the percentage ownership of existing shareholders in our company would decline. if we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, our financial condition could be adversely affected. our leverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our existing debt as well as any future debt that we may incur, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due, we may be forced to sell assets or take other disadvantageous actions, including (i) reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes or (ii) dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. the lenders who hold such debt could also accelerate amounts due, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of any of our other debt. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation in ireland and tax residency in the united kingdom we are subject to changes in law and other factors that may not allow us to maintain a worldwide effective corporate tax rate that is competitive in our industry. while we believe that we should be able to maintain a worldwide effective corporate tax rate that is competitive in our industry, we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be in the future because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. also, the tax laws of the u.s., the u.k., ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our worldwide effective corporate tax rate. in particular, legislative action could be taken by the u.s., the u.k., ireland or the european union which could override tax treaties or modify tax statutes or regulations upon which we expect to rely and adversely affect our effective tax 16 rate. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding our incorporation in ireland or limiting our ability as an irish company to maintain tax residency in the u.k. and take advantage of the tax treaties among the u.s., the u.k. and ireland, we could be subject to increased taxation, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods. a change in our tax residency could have a negative effect on our future profitability and taxes on dividends. under current irish legislation, a company is regarded as resident for tax purposes in ireland if it is centrally managed and controlled in ireland, or, in certain circumstances, if it is incorporated in ireland. under current u.k. legislation, a company that is centrally managed and controlled in the u.k. is regarded as resident in the u.k. for taxation purposes. where a company is treated as tax resident under the domestic laws of both the u.k. and ireland then the provisions of article 4(3) of the double tax convention between ireland and the u.k. provide that such enterprise shall be treated as resident only in the jurisdiction in which its place of effective management is situated. we have managed, and we intend to continue to manage, our affairs so that we are centrally managed and controlled in the u.k. and therefore have our tax residency only in the u.k. however, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to be resident only in the u.k. for tax purposes. it is possible that in the future, whether as a result of a change in law or the practice of any relevant tax authority or as a result of any change in the conduct of its affairs, we could become, or be regarded as having become resident in a jurisdiction other than the u.k. if we were considered to be a tax resident of ireland, we could become liable for irish corporation tax and any dividends paid by us could be subject to irish dividend withholding tax. irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the u.s. against us in ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in ireland. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the u.s. transfers of our ordinary shares may be subject to irish stamp duty. transfers of our ordinary shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in the depository trust company ("dtc") will not be subject to irish stamp duty. however, if you hold your ordinary shares directly rather than beneficially through dtc, any transfer of your ordinary shares could be subject to irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired). payment of irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. we currently intend to pay, or cause one of our affiliates to pay, stamp duty in connection with share transfers made in the ordinary course of trading by a seller who holds shares directly to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially. in other cases we may, in our absolute discretion, pay or cause one of our affiliates to pay any stamp duty. our articles of association provide that, in the event of any such payment, we (i) may seek reimbursement from the buyer, (ii) will have a lien against the shares acquired by such buyer and any dividends paid on such shares and (iii) may set-off the amount of the stamp duty against future dividends on such shares. parties to a share transfer may assume that any stamp duty arising in respect of a transaction in our shares has been paid unless one or both of such parties is otherwise notified by us. our ordinary shares, received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to irish capital acquisitions tax. irish capital acquisitions tax ("cat") could apply to a gift or inheritance of our ordinary shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. this is because our shares will be regarded as property situated in ireland. the person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for cat. gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from cat. children have a tax-free threshold of 280,000 per lifetime in respect of taxable gifts or inheritances received from their parents for periods on or after october 14, 2015. 17 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. periodically, we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of changes in interest rates. counterparties to all derivative contracts are major financial institutions. all instruments are entered into for other than trading purposes. the major accounting policies and utilization of these instruments is described more fully in item 8, note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. interest rate risk our debt portfolio as of december 31, 2015 , was comprised of debt predominantly denominated in u.s. dollars. this debt portfolio is comprised of 71% fixed-rate debt and 29% variable-rate debt. changes in interest rates have different impacts on the fixed and variable-rate portions of our debt portfolio. a change in interest rates on the fixed portion of the debt portfolio impacts the fair value but has no impact on interest incurred or cash flows. a change in interest rates on the variable portion of the debt portfolio impacts the interest incurred and cash flows but does not impact the net financial instrument position. based on the fixed-rate debt included in our debt portfolio, as of december 31, 2015 , a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $144.3 million decrease or a $152.1 million increase in fair value, respectively. based on the variable-rate debt included in our debt portfolio as of december 31, 2015 , a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $13.6 million increase or decrease in interest incurred. 45 foreign currency risk we conduct business in various locations throughout the world and are subject to market risk due to changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar. periodically, we use derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. the functional currencies of our foreign operating locations are generally the local currency in the country of domicile. we manage these operating activities at the local level and revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are generally denominated in local currencies, thereby mitigating the risk associated with changes in foreign exchange. however, our results of operations and assets and liabilities are reported in u.s. dollars and thus will fluctuate with changes in exchange rates between such local currencies and the u.s. dollar. from time to time, we may enter into short duration foreign currency contracts to hedge foreign currency risks. as the majority of our foreign currency contracts have an original maturity date of less than one year, there is no material foreign currency risk. at december 31, 2015 and 2014 , we had outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts with gross notional u.s. dollar equivalent amounts of $331.5 million and $250.8 million , respectively. changes in the fair value of all derivatives are recognized immediately in income unless the derivative qualifies as a hedge of future cash flows. gains and losses related to a hedge are deferred and recorded in the consolidated balance sheets as a component of aoci and subsequently recognized in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) when the hedged item affects earnings. in september 2015, we designated the 500.0 million 2.45% senior notes due 2019 (the "2019 euro notes") as a net investment hedge of our investments in certain international subsidiaries that use the euro as their functional currency. the hedge is intended to reduce, but will not eliminate, the impact on our financial results of changes in the exchange rate between the euro and the u.s. dollar. the currency risk related to the net investment hedge is measured by estimating the potential impact of a 10% change in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro. the rates used to perform this analysis were based on the market exchange rates in effect on december 31, 2015 . a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro would result in a $49.9 million net increase in other comprehensive income. conversely, a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro would result in a $60.9 million net decrease in other comprehensive income. however, these increases and decreases in other comprehensive income would be offset by decreases or increases in the hedged net investments on our balance sheet due to currency translation. 46risk factors 5 risk factors you should carefully consider all of the information in this document and the following risk factors before making an investment decision regarding our securities. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this document. 5 risks relating to our business general global economic and business conditions affect demand for our products. we compete in various geographic regions and product markets around the world. among these, the most significant are global industrial markets and residential markets. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in revenues and operating results due to economic and business cycles. important factors for our businesses and the businesses of our customers include the overall strength of the economy and our customers' confidence in the economy, industrial and governmental capital spending, the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets, unemployment rates, availability of consumer and commercial financing, interest rates, and energy and commodity prices. the businesses of many of our industrial customers, particularly oil and gas companies, chemical and petrochemical companies, mining and general industrial companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. while we attempt to minimize our exposure to economic or market fluctuations by serving a balanced mix of end markets and geographic regions, any of the above factors, individually or in the aggregate, or a significant or sustained downturn in a specific end market or geographic region could reduce demand for our products and services. we compete in attractive markets with a high level of competition, which may result in pressure on our profit margins and limit our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products and services are geographically diverse and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies and lower cost manufacturers. we compete based on technical expertise, reputation for quality and reliability, timeliness of delivery, previous installation history, contractual terms and price. some of our competitors, in particular smaller companies, attempt to compete based primarily on price, localized expertise and local relationships, especially with respect to products and applications that do not require a great deal of engineering or technical expertise. in addition, during economic downturns average selling prices tend to decrease as market participants compete more aggressively on price. if we are unable to continue to differentiate our products, services and solutions, or if we are forced to cut prices or to incur additional costs to remain competitive, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. sales outside of the u.s. for the year ended december 31, 2016 accounted for 41 percent of our net sales. our financial statements reflect translation of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars. therefore, if the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the principle non-u.s. currencies from which we derive revenue as compared to a prior period, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will effectively be decreased to the extent of the change in currency valuations, and vice-versa. during 2016, foreign currency translations had a 0.8 percent negative impact on our net sales. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, most notably the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro, could continue to adversely affect our reported revenue in future periods. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the u.s. and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the u.s. our future growth is dependent upon our ability to continue to adapt our products, services and organization to meet the demands of local markets in both developed and emerging economies and by developing or acquiring new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. we operate in global markets that are characterized by customer demand that is often global in scope but localized in delivery. we compete with thousands of smaller regional and local companies that may be positioned to offer products produced at lower cost than ours, or to capitalize on highly localized relationships and knowledge that are difficult for us to replicate. also, in several emerging markets potential customers prefer local suppliers, in some cases because of existing relationships and in other cases because of local legal restrictions or incentives that favor local businesses. accordingly, our future success depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to adapt our products, services, organization, workforce and sales strategies to fit localities throughout the world, particularly in high growth emerging markets; identify emerging technological and other trends in our target end-markets; and develop or acquire competitive products and services and bring them to market quickly and cost-effectively. we have chosen to focus our growth initiatives in specific end markets and geographies, but we cannot provide assurance that these growth initiatives will be sufficient to offset revenue declines in other markets. the failure to effectively adapt our products or services could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 6 our business strategy includes acquiring businesses and making investments that complement our existing businesses. we may not be able to identify, finance and complete suitable acquisitions and investments, and any completed acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. we continue to analyze and evaluate the acquisition of strategic businesses or product lines with the potential to strengthen our industry position or enhance our existing set of product and service offerings. we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, obtain financing or have sufficient cash necessary for acquisitions or successfully complete acquisitions in the future or that completed acquisitions will be successful. acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrences, equity issuances, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; difficulties in obtaining and verifying the financial statements and other business information of acquired businesses; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of acquired companies or of ours; assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including risks related to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa"); and dilution of interests of holders of our shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our business operations. any acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as such acquisitions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. we may not complete the sale of our valves &amp; controls business in the time frame or on the terms we anticipate. on august 18, 2016, we entered into an agreement to sell our valves &amp; controls business to emerson electric co. for a purchase price of $3.15 billion in cash, subject to certain customary adjustments. we believe the sale will be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2017, subject to customary regulatory approvals and closing conditions. the completion of the sale is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the satisfaction of the conditions to the completion of the sale, the parties to the transactions obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals, the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstance that could give rise to the termination of the sale agreement and our ability to obtain the expected proceeds from the sale. these and other factors could impair our ability to complete the sale in the time frame and on the terms we anticipate, and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our business initiatives. during 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , we initiated and continued execution of certain business initiatives aimed at reducing our fixed cost structure and realigning our business. as a result, we have incurred substantial expense, including restructuring charges. we may not be able to achieve the operating efficiencies to reduce costs or realize benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with these initiatives. if we are unable to execute these initiatives as planned, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations . we are exposed to political, regulatory, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. sales outside of the u.s. for the year ended december 31, 2016 accounted for 41 percent of our net sales. further, most of our businesses obtain some products, components and raw materials from non-u.s. suppliers. accordingly, our business is subject to the political, regulatory, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. these risks include: changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; relatively more severe economic conditions in some international markets than in the united states; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; the difficulty of communicating and monitoring standards and directives across our global network of after-market service centers and manufacturing facilities; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements and restrictions; 7 the possibility of terrorist action affecting us or our operations; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other trade restrictions; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations in non-u.s. labor markets; changes in tax treaties, laws or rulings that could have an adverse impact on our effective tax rate; limitations on repatriation of earnings; the difficulty of protecting intellectual property in non-u.s. countries; and changes in and required compliance with a variety of non-u.s. laws and regulations. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. we cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business as a whole. material cost and other inflation have adversely affected and could continue to affect our results of operations. in the past, we have experienced material cost and other inflation in a number of our businesses. we strive for productivity improvements and implement increases in selling prices to help mitigate cost increases in raw materials (especially metals and resins), energy and other costs such as pension, health care and insurance. we continue to implement operational initiatives in order to mitigate the impacts of this inflation and continuously reduce our costs. we cannot provide assurance, however, that these actions will be successful in managing our costs or increasing our productivity. continued cost inflation or failure of our initiatives to generate cost savings or improve productivity would likely negatively impact our results of operations. intellectual property challenges may hinder our ability to develop, engineer and market our products. patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies, customer relationships, trademarks, trade names and brand names are important to our business. intellectual property protection, however, may not preclude competitors from developing products similar to ours or from challenging our names or products. our pending patent applications, and our pending copyright and trademark registration applications, may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. in addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. over the past few years, we have noticed an increasing tendency for participants in our markets to use conflicts over and challenges to intellectual property as a means to compete. patent and trademark challenges increase our costs to develop, engineer and market our products. we may need to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights and we may or may not be able to detect infringement by third parties. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights or register new patents, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have significant goodwill and intangible assets and future impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material negative impact on our financial results. we test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on at least an annual basis, and more frequently if circumstances warrant, by comparing the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units to their respective carrying values on their balance sheets. as of december 31, 2016 our goodwill and intangible assets were $5,849.2 million and represented 51% of our total assets. long-term declines in projected future cash flows could result in future goodwill and intangible asset impairments. we may be adversely affected by work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force. as of december 31, 2016 , approximately 9,000 of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils. although we believe that our relations with the labor unions and work councils that represent our employees are generally good and we have experienced no material strikes and only minor work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not experience in the future these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. 8 seasonality of sales and weather conditions may adversely affect our financial results. we experience seasonal demand in a number of markets within flow &amp; filtration solutions, water quality systems and technical solutions. in flow &amp; filtration solutions, demand for residential water supply products, infrastructure and agricultural products follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs from april to august. in water quality systems, end-user demand for pool equipment in our primary markets follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs from april to august. the magnitude of the sales increase in both flow &amp; filtration solutions and water quality systems is partially mitigated by employing some advance sale or "early buy" programs (generally including extended payment terms and/or additional discounts). seasonal effects may vary from year to year and are impacted by weather patterns, particularly by temperatures, heavy flooding and droughts. technical solutions generally experiences increased demand for thermal protection products and services during the fall and winter months in the northern hemisphere and increased demand for electrical fastening products during the spring and summer months in the northern hemisphere. we cannot provide assurance that seasonality and weather conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our share price may fluctuate significantly. we cannot predict the prices at which our shares may trade. the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain third-party financing as needed; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; changes in earnings estimates by us or securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and share price performance of other comparable companies; investor perception of us; natural or other environmental disasters that investors believe may affect us; overall market fluctuations; results from any material litigation, including asbestos claims, government investigations or environmental liabilities; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our shares. risks relating to legal, regulatory and compliance matters our subsidiaries are party to asbestos-related product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our subsidiaries, along with numerous other companies, are named as defendants in a substantial number of lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. these cases typically involve product liability claims based primarily on allegations of manufacture, sale or distribution of industrial products that either contained asbestos or were attached to or used with asbestos-containing components manufactured by third parties. each case typically names between dozens to hundreds of corporate defendants. historically, our subsidiaries have been identified as defendants in asbestos-related claims. we have experienced an increase in the number of asbestos-related lawsuits over the past several years, including lawsuits by plaintiffs with mesothelioma-related claims. a large percentage of these suits have not presented viable legal claims and, as a result, have been dismissed or withdrawn. our strategy has been, and continues to be, to mount a vigorous defense aimed at having unsubstantiated suits dismissed, and, only where appropriate, settling claims before trial. as of december 31, 2016 , there were approximately 3,800 claims pending against our subsidiaries, of which approximately 3,300 relate to the valves &amp; controls business classified as held for sale. we cannot predict with certainty the extent to which we will be successful in litigating or 9 otherwise resolving lawsuits in the future and we continue to evaluate different strategies related to asbestos claims filed against us including entity restructuring and judicial relief. unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption laws outside the united states. the fcpa and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the u.s. department of justice ("doj") and the sec, increased enforcement activity by non-u.s. regulators and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. because many of our customers and end users are involved in infrastructure construction and energy production, they are often subject to increased scrutiny by regulators. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third-party intermediaries. in the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or agents have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the fcpa we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. prior to the merger, the flow control business was subject to investigations by the doj and the sec related to allegations that improper payments were made by the flow control business and other tyco subsidiaries and third-party intermediaries in recent years in violation of the fcpa. tyco reported to the doj and the sec the remedial measures that it had taken in response to the allegations and tyco's own internal investigations. as a result of discussions with the doj and sec aimed at resolving these matters, on september 24, 2012, tyco entered into a settlement with the sec and a non-prosecution agreement with the doj. as a result, the flow control business may be subject to investigations in other jurisdictions or suffer other criminal or civil penalties or adverse impacts, including being subject to lawsuits brought by private litigants, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our failure to satisfy international trade compliance regulations may adversely affect us. our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. certain of the products we manufacture are "dual use" products, which are products that may have both civil and military applications, or may otherwise be involved in weapons proliferation, and are often subject to more stringent export controls. from time to time, we obtain or receive information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. our policy mandates strict compliance with u.s. and non-u.s. trade laws applicable to our products. however, even when we are in strict compliance with law and our policies, we may suffer reputational damage if certain of our products are sold through various intermediaries to entities operating in sanctioned countries. when we receive information alleging improper activity, our policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting our findings to relevant governmental authorities. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our policies and procedures will always protect us from actions that would violate u.s. and/or non-u.s. laws. any improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and business prospects. we are exposed to potential environmental and other laws, liabilities and litigation. we are subject to u.s. federal, state, local and non-u.s. laws and regulations governing our environmental practices, public and worker health and safety, and the indoor and outdoor environment. compliance with these environmental, health and safety regulations could require us to satisfy environmental liabilities, increase the cost of manufacturing our products or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. any violations of these laws by us could cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities that could harm our operating results and cause our business to suffer. we are also required to comply with various environmental laws and maintain permits, some of which are subject to discretionary renewal from time to time, for many of our businesses and we could suffer if we are unable to renew existing permits or to obtain any additional permits that we may require. compliance with environmental requirements also could require significant operating or capital expenditures or result in significant operational restrictions. we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. 10 we have been named as defendant, target or a potentially responsible party ("prp") in a number of environmental clean-ups relating to our current or former business units. we have disposed of a number of businesses in recent years and in certain cases, we have retained responsibility and potential liability for certain environmental obligations. we have received claims for indemnification from certain purchasers. we may be named as a prp at other sites in the future for existing business units, as well as both divested and acquired businesses. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. certain environmental laws impose liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. we have projects underway at several current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from our past operations or by other businesses that previously owned or used the properties. the cost of cleanup and other environmental liabilities can be difficult to accurately predict. in addition, environmental requirements change and tend to become more stringent over time. thus, we cannot provide assurance that our eventual environmental clean-up costs and liabilities will not exceed the amount of our current reserves. we are exposed to potential regulatory, financial and reputational risks related to certain "conflict minerals." in 2012, the sec adopted disclosure requirements related to certain minerals sourced from the democratic republic of congo or adjoining countries, as required by section 1502 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act. the final rules impose inquiry, diligence and disclosure obligations with respect to "conflict minerals," defined as tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, that are necessary to the functionality of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by an sec reporting company. certain of these minerals are used extensively in components manufactured by our suppliers (or in components incorporated by our suppliers into components supplied to us) for use in our products. under the final rules, an sec reporting company must conduct a country of origin inquiry that is reasonably designed to determine whether any of the "conflict minerals" that are necessary to the functionality of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by the company originated in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. if any such "conflict minerals" originated in the democratic republic of congo or an adjoining country, the final rules require the issuer to exercise due diligence on the source of such "conflict minerals" and their chain of custody with the ultimate objective of determining whether the "conflict minerals" directly or indirectly financed or benefited armed groups in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. the issuer must then prepare and file with the sec annually a report regarding its diligence efforts, which we have done since the sec's reporting requirements became effective. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs to conduct country of origin inquiries and to exercise such due diligence. we have a very large number of suppliers and our supply chain is very complex and multifaceted. while we have no intention to use minerals sourced from the democratic republic of congo or adjoining countries that are not "conflict free" (meaning that they do not contain "conflict minerals" that directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country), a significant number of our suppliers are small businesses, and those small businesses have limited or no resources to track their sources of minerals. as a result, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, ongoing significant difficulty in determining the country of origin or the source and chain of custody for all "conflict minerals" used in our products and disclosing that our products are "conflict free." we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to verify the country of origin or the source and chain of custody for all "conflict minerals" used in our products or if we continue to be unable to disclose that our products are "conflict free." the ongoing implementation of these rules may also affect the sourcing and availability of some minerals necessary to the manufacture of our products and may affect the availability and price of "conflict minerals" capable of certification as "conflict free." accordingly, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs as a consequence of these rules, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. the u.s. congress and federal and state regulatory agencies have been considering legislation and regulatory proposals that would regulate and limit greenhouse gas emissions. it is uncertain whether, when and in what form a federal mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program may be adopted. similarly, certain countries have adopted the kyoto protocol and this and other existing international initiatives or those under consideration could affect our international operations. to the extent our customers, particularly those involved in the oil and gas, power generation, petrochemical processing or petroleum refining industries, are subject to any of these or other similar proposed or newly enacted laws and regulations, we are exposed to risks that the additional costs by customers to comply with such laws and regulations could impact their ability or desire to continue to operate at similar levels in certain jurisdictions as historically seen or as currently anticipated, which could negatively impact their demand for our products and services. in addition, new laws and regulations that might favor the increased use of non-fossil fuels, including nuclear, wind, solar and bio-fuels or that are designed to increase energy efficiency, could dampen demand for oil and gas production or power generation 11 resulting in lower spending by customers for our products and services. these actions could also increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for raw materials and transportation. because it is uncertain what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. increased information technology security threats and more sophisticated computer crime pose a risk to our systems, networks, products and services. we are exposed to potential regulatory, financial and reputational risks relating to the protection of our data. we rely upon information technology systems and networks in connection with a variety of business activities, some of which are managed by third parties. additionally, we collect and store data that is sensitive to pentair and its employees, customers, dealers and suppliers. the secure operation of these information technology systems and networks, and the processing and maintenance of this data is critical to our business operations and strategy. information technology security threats -- from user error to attacks designed to gain unauthorized access to our systems, networks and data -- are increasing in frequency and sophistication. attacks may range from random attempts to coordinated and targeted attacks, including sophisticated computer crime and advanced persistent threats. these threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the data we process and maintain. establishing systems and processes to address these threats and changes in legal requirements relating to data collection and storage may increase our costs. we have identified attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems and networks. to our knowledge, no such attack was ultimately successful in exporting sensitive data or controlling sensitive systems or networks. should such an attack succeed it could expose us and our employees, customers, dealers and suppliers to misuse of information or systems, the compromising of confidential information, theft of assets, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operations disruptions, and breach of privacy, which may require notification under data privacy and other applicable laws. the occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our reputation, competitive position, business and results of operations. in addition, such breaches in security could result in litigation, regulatory action and potential liability and the costs and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures. our results of operations may be negatively impacted by litigation. our businesses expose us to potential litigation, such as product liability claims relating to the design, manufacture and sale of our products. while we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms or that this insurance will provide adequate protection against potential or previously existing liabilities. in addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. successful claims against us for significant amounts could materially and adversely affect our product reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we share responsibility for certain income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the date of the distribution. in connection with the distribution, we entered into a tax sharing agreement (the "2012 tax sharing agreement") with tyco (now known as johnson controls international plc, "johnson controls") and the adt corporation ("adt"), which governs the rights and obligations of adt, johnson controls and us for certain pre-distribution tax liabilities, including johnson controls' obligations under a separate tax sharing agreement (the "2007 tax sharing agreement") entered into by johnson controls, covidien ltd. (now known as medtronic plc, "medtronic") and te connectivity ltd. ("te connectivity") in connection with the 2007 distributions of medtronic and te connectivity by johnson controls. the 2012 tax sharing agreement provides that we, johnson controls and adt will share (i) certain pre-distribution income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, johnson controls' and adt's u.s. income tax returns, including withholding tax, income tax, or other tax liabilities that could arise if the merger, distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal or swiss tax purposes, and (ii) payments required to be made by johnson controls with respect to the 2007 tax sharing agreement (the liabilities in clauses (i) and (ii) collectively, "shared tax liabilities"). johnson controls is responsible for the first $500 million of shared tax liabilities. as of december 31, 2016, johnson controls has paid $210.0 million of shared tax liabilities. we and adt will share 42% and 58%, respectively, of the next $225 million of shared tax liabilities. we, adt and johnson controls will share 20%, 27.5% and 52.5%, respectively, of shared tax liabilities above $725 million. costs and expenses associated with the management of shared tax liabilities will generally be shared 20% by us, 27.5% by adt and 52.5% by johnson controls. as of december 31, 2016 , we have a liability of $13.3 million recorded for this matter in other non-current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. however, the ultimate resolution of these matters, and the impact of that resolution, are uncertain. to the extent we are responsible for any liability under the 2012 tax sharing agreement, and indirectly the 2007 tax sharing agreement, in excess of the recorded liability, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods. in addition, under the terms of the 2012 tax sharing agreement, in the event the distribution, the adt distribution, the internal transactions or the merger were determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the distribution by us, adt or johnson controls, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed as a result thereof. if such 12 failure is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, adt or johnson controls, then we, adt and johnson controls would be responsible for any taxes imposed as a result of such determination in the same manner and in the same proportions as we, adt and johnson controls are responsible for shared tax liabilities. such tax amounts could be significant. risks relating to our liquidity disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect us, our customers and our suppliers by increasing funding costs or reducing availability of credit. in the normal course of our business, we may access credit markets for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, acquisitions, additions to working capital, repurchase of shares, capital expenditures and investments in our subsidiaries. although we expect to have sufficient liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets, which have occurred in the past and made financing terms for borrowers unattractive or unavailable. these factors may make it more difficult or expensive for us to access credit markets if the need arises. in addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for prospective customers to commence new projects, as customers and suppliers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. disruptions in the financial markets have had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slowdown in general economic activity that may continue to adversely affect our businesses. these disruptions may have other unknown adverse effects. one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our credit agreements and indentures contain customary financial covenants, including those that limit the amount of our debt, which may restrict the operations of our business and our ability to incur additional debt to finance acquisitions. our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and, in the case of credit facility lenders, terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, which could affect our financial condition, and may decrease our profitability. as of december 31, 2016 , we had $4.3 billion of total debt outstanding. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, subject to restrictions in our debt agreements. if our cash flow from operations is less than we anticipate, if our cash requirements are more than we expect, or if we intend to finance acquisitions, we may require more financing. however, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. if we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of additional capital shares, the terms of the debt or capital shares issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our ordinary shares, particularly in the event of liquidation. the terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. if we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, the percentage ownership of existing shareholders in our company would decline. if we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, our financial condition could be adversely affected. our leverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our existing debt as well as any future debt that we may incur, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due, we may be forced to sell assets or take other disadvantageous actions, including (i) reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes or (ii) dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. the lenders who hold such debt could also accelerate amounts due, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of any of our other debt. 13 risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation in ireland and tax residency in the united kingdom we are subject to changes in law and other factors that may not allow us to maintain a worldwide effective corporate tax rate that is competitive in our industry. while we believe that we should be able to maintain a worldwide effective corporate tax rate that is competitive in our industry, we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be in the future because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. also, the tax laws of the u.s., the u.k., ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our worldwide effective corporate tax rate. in particular, legislative action could be taken by the u.s., the u.k., ireland or the european union which could override tax treaties or modify tax statutes or regulations upon which we expect to rely and adversely affect our effective tax rate. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding our incorporation in ireland or limiting our ability as an irish company to maintain tax residency in the u.k. and take advantage of the tax treaties among the u.s., the u.k. and ireland, we could be subject to increased taxation, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods. a change in our tax residency could have a negative effect on our future profitability and taxes on dividends. under current irish legislation, a company is regarded as resident for tax purposes in ireland if it is centrally managed and controlled in ireland, or, in certain circumstances, if it is incorporated in ireland. under current u.k. legislation, a company that is centrally managed and controlled in the u.k. is regarded as resident in the u.k. for taxation purposes. where a company is treated as tax resident under the domestic laws of both the u.k. and ireland then the provisions of article 4(3) of the double tax convention between ireland and the u.k. provide that such enterprise shall be treated as resident only in the jurisdiction in which its place of effective management is situated. we have managed, and we intend to continue to manage, our affairs so that we are centrally managed and controlled in the u.k. and therefore have our tax residency only in the u.k. however, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to be resident only in the u.k. for tax purposes. it is possible that in the future, whether as a result of a change in law or the practice of any relevant tax authority or as a result of any change in the conduct of its affairs, we could become, or be regarded as having become resident in a jurisdiction other than the u.k. if we were considered to be a tax resident of ireland, we could become liable for irish corporation tax and any dividends paid by us could be subject to irish dividend withholding tax. irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the u.s. against us in ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in ireland. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the u.s. transfers of our ordinary shares may be subject to irish stamp duty. transfers of our ordinary shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in the depository trust company ("dtc") will not be subject to irish stamp duty. however, if you hold your ordinary shares directly rather than beneficially through dtc, any transfer of your ordinary shares could be subject to irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired). payment of irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. we currently intend to pay, or cause one of our affiliates to pay, stamp duty in connection with share transfers made in the ordinary course of trading by a seller who holds shares directly to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially. in other cases we may, in our absolute discretion, pay or cause one of our affiliates to pay any stamp duty. our articles of association provide that, in the event of any such payment, we (i) may seek reimbursement from the buyer, (ii) will have a lien against the shares acquired by such buyer and any dividends paid on such shares and (iii) may set-off the amount of the stamp duty against 14 future dividends on such shares. parties to a share transfer may assume that any stamp duty arising in respect of a transaction in our shares has been paid unless one or both of such parties is otherwise notified by us. our ordinary shares, received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to irish capital acquisitions tax. irish capital acquisitions tax ("cat") could apply to a gift or inheritance of our ordinary shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. this is because our shares will be regarded as property situated in ireland. the person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for cat. gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from cat. children have a tax-free threshold of 310,000 per lifetime in respect of taxable gifts or inheritances received from their parents for periods on or after october 12, 2016. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. periodically, we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of changes in interest rates. counterparties to all derivative contracts are major financial institutions. all instruments are entered into for other than trading purposes. the major accounting policies and utilization of these instruments is described more fully in item 8, note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. interest rate risk our debt portfolio as of december 31, 2016 , was comprised of debt predominantly denominated in u.s. dollars. this debt portfolio is comprised of 77% fixed-rate debt and 23% variable-rate debt. changes in interest rates have different impacts on the fixed and variable-rate portions of our debt portfolio. a change in interest rates on the fixed portion of the debt portfolio impacts the fair value but has no impact on interest incurred or cash flows. a change in interest rates on the variable portion of the debt portfolio impacts the interest incurred and cash flows but does not impact the net financial instrument position. based on the fixed-rate debt included in our debt portfolio, as of december 31, 2016 , a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $118.5 million decrease or a $124.3 million increase in fair value, respectively. based on the variable-rate debt included in our debt portfolio as of december 31, 2016 , a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $9.8 million increase or decrease in interest incurred. foreign currency risk we conduct business in various locations throughout the world and are subject to market risk due to changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar. periodically, we use derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. the functional currencies of our foreign operating locations are generally the local currency in the country of domicile. we manage these operating activities at the local level and revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are generally denominated in local currencies, thereby mitigating the risk associated with changes in foreign exchange. however, our results of operations and assets and liabilities are reported in u.s. dollars and thus will fluctuate with changes in exchange rates between such local currencies and the u.s. dollar. from time to time, we may enter into short duration foreign currency contracts to hedge foreign currency risks. as the majority of our foreign currency contracts have an original maturity date of less than one year, there is no material foreign currency risk. at december 31, 2016 and 2015 , we had outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts with gross notional u.s. dollar equivalent amounts of $475.6 million and $331.5 million , respectively. changes in the fair value of all derivatives are recognized immediately in income unless the derivative qualifies as a hedge of future cash flows. gains and losses related to a hedge are deferred and recorded in the consolidated balance sheets as a component of aoci and subsequently recognized in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) when the hedged item affects earnings. in september 2015, we designated the 500.0 million 2.45% senior notes due 2019 (the "2019 euro notes") as a net investment hedge of our investments in certain international subsidiaries that use the euro as their functional currency. the hedge is intended to reduce, but will not eliminate, the impact on our financial results of changes in the exchange rate between the euro and the u.s. dollar. the currency risk related to the net investment hedge is measured by estimating the potential impact of a 10% change in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro. the rates used to perform this analysis were based on the market exchange rates in effect on december 31, 2016 . a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro would result in a $47.3 million net increase in other comprehensive income. conversely, a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro would result in a $57.9 million net decrease in other comprehensive income. however, these increases and decreases in other comprehensive income would be offset by decreases or increases in the hedged net investments on our balance sheet due to currency translation. 40risk factors 5 risk factors you should carefully consider all of the information in this document and the following risk factors before making an investment decision regarding our securities. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this document. risks relating to our proposed separation of our water business and electrical business by spin-off the proposed separation of our water business and electrical business is contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, may require significant time and attention of our management and may have an adverse effect on us whether or not it is completed. on may 9, 2017, we announced that our board of directors approved a plan to separate our water business and electrical business into two independent, publicly-traded companies through a spin-off. completion of the spin-off will be contingent upon customary conditions, including obtaining final approval from our board of directors, receipt of tax opinions and rulings and effectiveness of appropriate filings with the sec. in addition, the proposed spin-off is complex in nature and may be affected by unanticipated developments or changes in market conditions. for these and other reasons, the spin-off may not be completed on april 30, 2018, as we are targeting, if at all. whether or not we complete the spin-off, our ongoing businesses may be adversely affected and we may be subject to certain risks and consequences as a result of pursuing the spin-off, including the following: execution of the proposed spin-off will require significant time and attention from management, which may distract management from the operation of our businesses and the execution of other initiatives that may have been beneficial to us; our employees may also be distracted due to uncertainty about their future roles with each of the separate companies pending the completion of the spin-off; some of our suppliers or customers may delay or defer decisions or may end their relationships with us; we will be required to pay certain costs and expenses relating to the spin-off, such as legal, accounting and other professional fees, whether or not it is completed; and we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets if we fail to complete the spin-off or fail to complete it on a timely basis. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and trading prices. we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the spin-off. although we believe that separating our electrical business from our water business by means of the spin-off will provide financial, operational, managerial and other benefits to us and our shareholders, the spin-off may not provide the results on the scope or on the scale we anticipate, and we may not realize any or all of the intended benefits. in addition, we will incur one-time costs and ongoing costs in connection with, or as a result of, the spin-off, including costs of operating as independent, publicly-traded companies that the two businesses will no longer be able to share. those costs may exceed our estimates or could negate some of the benefits we expect to realize. if we do not realize the intended benefits or if our costs exceed our estimates, we could suffer a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and trading prices. if the proposed spin-off of our electrical business is completed, the trading price of our ordinary shares will likely decline and may experience greater volatility. we expect the trading price of our ordinary shares immediately following the spin-off to be significantly lower than immediately prior to the spin-off because the trading price for our shares will no longer reflect the value of our electrical business. in addition, until the market has fully analyzed our value without our electrical business, the price of our shares may experience greater volatility. if the proposed spin-off is completed, our shares may not match some holders' investment strategies or meet minimum criteria for inclusion in stock market indices or portfolios, which could cause investors to sell their shares. excessive selling pressure could cause the market price of our shares to decrease further following the completion of the proposed spin-off. 5 following the spin-off, the value of our ordinary shares and the ordinary shares of the electrical business that is spun off may collectively trade at an aggregate price less than that at which the company's ordinary shares might trade had the spin-off not occurred. for a number of reasons, our ordinary shares and the ordinary shares of the electrical business that is spun off that you may hold following the spin-off may collectively trade at a value less than the price at which our ordinary shares might have traded had the spin-off not occurred and we continued to own the electrical business. these reasons include the future performance of either us or the electrical business as separate, independent companies and the future shareholder base and market for our ordinary shares and the ordinary shares of the electrical business and the prices at which these shares individually trade. the proposed spin-off transaction could result in substantial tax liability to us and our shareholders. the spin-off is conditioned on our receipt of opinions of tax counsel and tax rulings from taxing authorities. however, these tax opinions will not be binding on taxing authorities. accordingly, taxing authorities or the courts may reach conclusions with respect to the spin-off that are different from the conclusions reached in the opinions of counsel. moreover, the opinions of counsel will be based on certain statements and representations made by us, which, if incomplete or inaccurate in any material respect, could invalidate the opinion of counsel. additionally, certain internal restructuring transactions necessary to accomplish the spin-off may result in adverse tax consequences to us. if the spin-off and certain related transactions were determined to be taxable, we could be subject to a substantial tax liability that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, if the spin-off were taxable, each holder of our ordinary shares who receives shares of the electrical business in the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received. risks relating to our business general global economic and business conditions affect demand for our products. we compete in various geographic regions and product markets around the world. among these, the most significant are global industrial markets and residential markets. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in revenues and results of operations due to economic and business cycles. important factors for our businesses and the businesses of our customers include the overall strength of the economy and our customers' confidence in the economy, industrial and governmental capital spending, the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets, unemployment rates, availability of consumer and commercial financing, interest rates, and energy and commodity prices. the businesses of many of our industrial customers are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. while we attempt to minimize our exposure to economic or market fluctuations by serving a balanced mix of end markets and geographic regions, any of the above factors, individually or in the aggregate, or a significant or sustained downturn in a specific end market or geographic region could reduce demand for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we compete in attractive markets with a high level of competition, which may result in pressure on our profit margins and limit our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products and services are geographically diverse and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies and lower cost manufacturers. we compete based on technical expertise, reputation for quality and reliability, timeliness of delivery, previous installation history, contractual terms and price. some of our competitors, in particular smaller companies, attempt to compete based primarily on price, localized expertise and local relationships, especially with respect to products and applications that do not require a great deal of engineering or technical expertise. in addition, during economic downturns average selling prices tend to decrease as market participants compete more aggressively on price. if we are unable to continue to differentiate our products, services and solutions, or if we are forced to cut prices or to incur additional costs to remain competitive, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. volatility in currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. sales outside of the u.s. for the year ended december 31, 2017 accounted for 40% of our net sales. our financial statements reflect translation of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars. therefore, if the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the principal non-u.s. currencies from which we derive revenue as compared to a prior period, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will effectively be decreased to the extent of the change in currency valuations, and vice-versa. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, most notably the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro, could have a material adverse effect on our reported revenue in future periods. in addition, currency variations could have a material adverse effect on margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the u.s. and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the u.s. 6 our future growth is dependent upon our ability to continue to adapt our products, services and organization to meet the demands of local markets in both developed and emerging economies and by developing or acquiring new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. we operate in global markets that are characterized by customer demand that is often global in scope but localized in delivery. we compete with thousands of smaller regional and local companies that may be positioned to offer products produced at lower cost than ours, or to capitalize on highly localized relationships and knowledge that are difficult for us to replicate. also, in several emerging markets potential customers prefer local suppliers, in some cases because of existing relationships and in other cases because of local legal restrictions or incentives that favor local businesses. accordingly, our future success depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to adapt our products, services, organization, workforce and sales strategies to fit localities throughout the world, particularly in high growth emerging markets; identify emerging technological and other trends in our target end-markets; and develop or acquire competitive products and services and bring them to market quickly and cost-effectively. the failure to effectively adapt our products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to identify, finance and complete suitable acquisitions and investments, and any completed acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources. our business strategy includes acquiring businesses and making investments that complement our existing businesses. we continue to analyze and evaluate the acquisition of strategic businesses or product lines with the potential to strengthen our industry position or enhance our existing set of product and service offerings. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, obtain financing or have sufficient cash necessary for acquisitions or successfully complete acquisitions in the future or that completed acquisitions will be successful. acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrences, equity issuances, operating losses and expenses. acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; difficulties in obtaining and verifying the financial statements and other business information of acquired businesses; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of acquired companies or of ours; assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including risks relating to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa"); and dilution of interests of holders of our shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our business operations. any acquisitions or investments may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our business initiatives. during 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , we initiated and continued execution of certain business initiatives aimed at reducing our fixed cost structure and realigning our business. as a result, we have incurred substantial expense, including restructuring charges. we may not be able to achieve the operating efficiencies to reduce costs or realize benefits that were anticipated in connection with these initiatives. if we are unable to execute these initiatives as planned, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows . we are exposed to political, regulatory, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. sales outside of the u.s. for the year ended december 31, 2017 accounted for 40% of our net sales. further, most of our businesses obtain some products, components and raw materials from non-u.s. suppliers. accordingly, our business is subject to the political, regulatory, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. these risks include: changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; relatively more severe economic conditions in some international markets than in the u.s.; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through non-u.s. legal systems; the difficulty of communicating and monitoring standards and directives across our global facilities; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements and restrictions; the possibility of terrorist action affecting us or our operations; 7 the threat of nationalization and expropriation; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other trade restrictions; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations in non-u.s. labor markets; changes in tax treaties, laws or rulings that could have a material adverse impact on our effective tax rate; limitations on repatriation of earnings; the difficulty of protecting intellectual property in non-u.s. countries; and changes in and required compliance with a variety of non-u.s. laws and regulations. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. we cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business as a whole. we may experience cost and other inflation. in the past, we have experienced material cost and other inflation in a number of our businesses. we strive for productivity improvements and implement increases in selling prices to help mitigate cost increases in raw materials (especially metals and resins), energy and other costs such as pension, health care and insurance. we continue to implement operational initiatives in order to mitigate the impacts of this inflation and continuously reduce our costs. however, these actions may not be successful in managing our costs or increasing our productivity. continued cost inflation or failure of our initiatives to generate cost savings or improve productivity could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. intellectual property challenges may hinder our ability to develop, engineer and market our products. patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies, customer relationships, trademarks, trade names and brand names are important to our business. intellectual property protection, however, may not preclude competitors from developing products similar to ours or from challenging our names or products. our pending patent applications, and our pending copyright and trademark registration applications, may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. in addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. over the past few years, we have noticed an increasing tendency for participants in our markets to use challenges to intellectual property as a means to compete. patent and trademark challenges increase our costs to develop, engineer and market our products. we may need to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights and we may or may not be able to detect infringement by third parties. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights or register new patents, our competitive position could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have significant goodwill and intangible assets and future impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on at least an annual basis, and more frequently if circumstances warrant, by comparing the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units to their respective carrying values on their balance sheets. as of december 31, 2017 our goodwill and intangible assets were $5,909.5 million and represented 68% of our total assets. long-term declines in projected future cash flows could result in future goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges. a material disruption at any of our manufacturing facilities could cause us to be unable to meet customer demands or increase our costs. if operations at any of our manufacturing facilities were to be disrupted as a result of significant equipment failures, natural disasters, earthquakes, power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, adverse weather conditions, labor disputes or other reasons, we may be unable to fill customer orders and otherwise meet customer demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. interruptions in production, in particular at our manufacturing facilities, could increase our costs and reduce our sales. any interruption in production capability could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to fill customer orders. we maintain property damage insurance that we believe to be adequate to provide for reconstruction of facilities and equipment, as well as business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from any production interruption or shutdown caused by an insured loss. however, any recovery under our insurance policies may not offset the lost sales or increased costs that may be experienced during the disruption of operations, which could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 8 seasonality of sales and weather conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we experience seasonal demand in a number of markets within both of our business segments. in water, demand for residential water supply products, infrastructure, agricultural products and end-user demand for pool equipment in our primary markets follow warm weather trends and are at seasonal highs from april to august. the magnitude of the sales increase in water is partially mitigated by employing some advance sale or "early buy" programs (generally including extended payment terms and/or additional discounts). seasonal effects may vary from year to year and are impacted by weather patterns, particularly by temperatures, heavy flooding and droughts. electrical generally experiences increased demand for thermal protection products and services during the fall and winter months in the northern hemisphere and increased demand for electrical fastening products during the spring and summer months in the northern hemisphere. seasonality and weather conditions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our share price may fluctuate significantly. we cannot predict the prices at which our shares may trade. the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain third-party financing as needed; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; changes in earnings estimates by us or securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and share price performance of other comparable companies; investor perception of us; natural or other environmental disasters that investors believe may affect us; overall market fluctuations; results from any material litigation, including asbestos claims, government investigations or environmental liabilities; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our share price. risks relating to legal, regulatory and compliance matters violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption laws outside the u.s. could have a material adverse effect on us. the fcpa and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the u.s. department of justice and the sec, increased enforcement activity by non-u.s. regulators and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. because many of our customers and end users are involved in infrastructure construction and energy production, they are often subject to increased scrutiny by regulators. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third-party intermediaries. in the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or agents have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the fcpa we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. violations of these laws may require self-disclosure to government agencies and result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 9 our failure to satisfy international trade compliance regulations, and changes in u.s. government sanctions, could have a material adverse effect on us. our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. certain of the products we manufacture are "dual use" products, which are products that may have both civil and military applications, or may otherwise be involved in weapons proliferation, and are often subject to more stringent export controls. from time to time, we obtain or receive information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. our policy mandates strict compliance with u.s. and non-u.s. trade laws applicable to our products. however, even when we are in strict compliance with law and our policies, we may suffer reputational damage if certain of our products are sold through various intermediaries to entities operating in sanctioned countries. when we receive information alleging improper activity, our policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting our findings to relevant government authorities. nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not always protect us from actions that would violate u.s. and/or non-u.s. laws. any improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and business prospects. changes in u.s. administrative policy, including changes to existing trade agreements, could have a material adverse effect on us. as a result of changes to u.s. administrative policy, there may be changes to existing trade agreements, like the north american free trade agreement, greater restrictions on free trade generally, significant increases in tariffs on goods imported into the u.s. particularly tariffs on products manufactured in mexico, among other possible changes. changes in u.s. social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories and countries where we currently manufacture and sell products, and any resulting negative sentiments towards the u.s. as a result of such changes, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are exposed to potential environmental laws, liabilities and litigation. we are subject to u.s. federal, state, local and non-u.s. laws and regulations governing our environmental practices, public and worker health and safety, and the indoor and outdoor environment. compliance with these environmental, health and safety regulations could require us to satisfy environmental liabilities, increase the cost of manufacturing our products or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. any violations of these laws by us could cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities. we are also required to comply with various environmental laws and maintain permits, some of which are subject to renewal from time to time, for many of our businesses and we could suffer if we are unable to renew existing permits or to obtain any additional permits that we may require. compliance with environmental requirements also could require significant operating or capital expenditures or result in significant operational restrictions. we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. we have been named as defendant, target or a potentially responsible party ("prp") in a number of environmental clean-ups relating to our current or former business units. we have disposed of a number of businesses in recent years and in certain cases, we have retained responsibility and potential liability for certain environmental obligations. we have received claims for indemnification from certain purchasers. we may be named as a prp at other sites in the future for existing business units, as well as both divested and acquired businesses. in addition to clean-up actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. certain environmental laws impose liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. we have projects underway at several current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from our past operations or by other businesses that previously owned or used the properties. the cost of clean-up and other environmental liabilities can be difficult to accurately predict. in addition, environmental requirements change and tend to become more stringent over time. our eventual environmental clean-up costs and liabilities could exceed the amount of our current reserves. our subsidiaries are party to asbestos-related product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our subsidiaries, along with numerous other companies, are named as defendants in a substantial number of lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. these cases typically involve product liability claims based primarily on allegations of manufacture, sale or distribution of industrial products that either contained asbestos or were attached to or used with asbestos-containing components manufactured by third parties. each case typically names between dozens to hundreds of corporate defendants. historically, our subsidiaries have been identified as defendants in asbestos-related claims. we have experienced an increase in the number of asbestos-related lawsuits over the past several years, including lawsuits by plaintiffs 10 with mesothelioma-related claims. a large percentage of these suits have not presented viable legal claims and, as a result, have been dismissed or withdrawn. our strategy has been, and continues to be, to mount a vigorous defense aimed at having unsubstantiated suits dismissed, and, only where appropriate, settling claims before trial. as of december 31, 2017 , there were approximately 600 claims pending against our subsidiaries. we cannot predict with certainty the extent to which we will be successful in litigating or otherwise resolving lawsuits in the future and we continue to evaluate different strategies related to asbestos claims filed against us including entity restructuring and judicial relief. unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. the u.s. environmental protection agency ("epa") has published findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other greenhouse gases ("ghgs") present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to the warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climate changes. based on these findings, the epa has implemented regulations that require reporting of ghg emissions, or that limit emissions of ghgs from certain mobile or stationary sources. in addition, the u.s. congress and federal and state regulatory agencies have considered other legislation and regulatory proposals to reduce emissions of ghgs, and many states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of ghgs, primarily through the development of ghg inventories, ghg permitting and/or regional ghg cap-and-trade programs. it is uncertain whether, when and in what form a federal mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program, or other state programs, may be adopted. similarly, certain countries have adopted the kyoto protocol and/or the paris accord, and these and other existing international initiatives or those under consideration could affect our international operations. to the extent our customers, particularly our energy and industrial customers , are subject to any of these or other similar proposed or newly enacted laws and regulations, we are exposed to risks that the additional costs by customers to comply with such laws and regulations could impact their ability or desire to continue to operate at similar levels in certain jurisdictions as historically seen or as currently anticipated, which could negatively impact their demand for our products and services. these actions could also increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for raw materials and transportation. because it is uncertain what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. increased information technology security threats and computer crime pose a risk to our systems, networks, products and services, and we are exposed to potential regulatory, financial and reputational risks relating to the protection of our data. we rely upon information technology systems and networks in connection with a variety of business activities, some of which are managed by third parties. additionally, we collect and store data that is sensitive to pentair and its employees, customers, dealers and suppliers. as our business increasingly interfaces with employees, customers, dealers and suppliers using information technology systems and networks, we are subject to an increased risk to the secure operation of these systems and networks and to additional laws and regulatory requirements regarding data privacy, including the european union general data protection regulation. the secure operation of these information technology systems and networks, and the processing and maintenance of this data is critical to our business operations and strategy. information technology security threats -- from user error to attacks designed to gain unauthorized access to our systems, networks and data -- are increasing in frequency and sophistication. attacks may range from random attempts to coordinated and targeted attacks, including sophisticated computer crime and advanced persistent threats. these threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the data we process and maintain. establishing systems and processes to address these threats and changes in legal requirements relating to data collection and storage may increase our costs. we have experienced data breaches, and, although we have determined such data breaches to be immaterial and such data breaches have not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, there can be no assurance of similar results in the future. should future attacks succeed in the theft of assets, exporting sensitive data or financial information or controlling sensitive systems or networks, it could expose us and our employees, customers, dealers and suppliers to the theft of assets, misuse of information or systems, the compromising of confidential information, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operations disruptions, and breach of privacy, which may require notification under data privacy and other applicable laws. the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, such breaches in security could result in litigation, regulatory action and potential liability and the costs and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures. 11 we may be negatively impacted by litigation, including product liability claims. our businesses expose us to potential litigation, such as product liability claims relating to the design, manufacture and sale of our products. while we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms and this insurance may not provide adequate protection against potential or previously existing liabilities. in addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. successful claims against us for significant amounts could have a material adverse effect on our product reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we share responsibility for certain income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the date of the distribution. in connection with the distribution, we entered into a tax sharing agreement (the "2012 tax sharing agreement") with tyco (now known as johnson controls international plc, "johnson controls") and the adt corporation ("adt"), which governs the rights and obligations of adt, johnson controls and us for certain pre-distribution tax liabilities, including johnson controls' obligations under a separate tax sharing agreement (the "2007 tax sharing agreement") entered into by johnson controls, covidien ltd. (now known as medtronic plc, "medtronic") and te connectivity ltd. ("te connectivity") in connection with the 2007 distributions of medtronic and te connectivity by johnson controls. the 2012 tax sharing agreement provides that we, johnson controls and adt will share (i) certain pre-distribution income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, johnson controls' and adt's u.s. income tax returns, including withholding tax, income tax, or other tax liabilities that could arise if the merger, distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal or swiss tax purposes, and (ii) payments required to be made by johnson controls with respect to the 2007 tax sharing agreement (the liabilities in clauses (i) and (ii) collectively, "shared tax liabilities"). johnson controls is responsible for the first $500 million of shared tax liabilities. as of december 31, 2017, johnson controls has paid $210.0 million of shared tax liabilities. we and adt will share 42% and 58%, respectively, of the next $225 million of shared tax liabilities. we, adt and johnson controls will share 20%, 27.5% and 52.5%, respectively, of shared tax liabilities above $725 million. costs and expenses associated with the management of shared tax liabilities will generally be shared 20% by us, 27.5% by adt and 52.5% by johnson controls. the ultimate resolution of these matters, and the impact of that resolution, are uncertain. to the extent we are responsible for any liability under the 2012 tax sharing agreement, and indirectly the 2007 tax sharing agreement, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods. in addition, under the terms of the 2012 tax sharing agreement, in the event the distribution, the adt distribution, the internal transactions or the merger were determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the distribution by us, adt or johnson controls, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed as a result thereof. if such failure is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, adt or johnson controls, then we, adt and johnson controls would be responsible for any taxes imposed as a result of such determination in the same manner and in the same proportions as we, adt and johnson controls are responsible for shared tax liabilities. such tax amounts could be significant. risks relating to our liquidity disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect us, our customers and our suppliers by increasing funding costs or reducing availability of credit. in the normal course of our business, we may access credit markets for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, acquisitions, additions to working capital, repurchase of shares, capital expenditures and investments in our subsidiaries. although we expect to have sufficient liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets, which have occurred in the past and made financing terms for borrowers unattractive or unavailable. these factors may make it more difficult or expensive for us to access credit markets if the need arises. in addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for prospective customers to commence new projects, as customers and suppliers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. disruptions in the financial markets have had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slowdown in general economic activity that may continue to adversely affect our businesses. these disruptions may have other unknown adverse effects. one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our credit agreements and indentures contain customary financial covenants, including those that limit the amount of our debt, which may restrict the operations of our business and our ability to incur additional debt to finance acquisitions. our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all 12 amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and, in the case of credit facility lenders, terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, which could affect our financial condition, and may decrease our profitability. as of december 31, 2017 , we had $1.4 billion of total debt outstanding. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, subject to restrictions in our debt agreements. if our cash flow from operations is less than we anticipate, if our cash requirements are more than we expect, or if we intend to finance acquisitions, we may require more financing. however, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. if we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of additional capital shares, the terms of the debt or capital shares issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our ordinary shares, particularly in the event of liquidation. the terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. if we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, the percentage ownership of existing shareholders in our company would decline. if we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, our financial condition could be adversely affected. our leverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our existing debt as well as any future debt that we may incur, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due, we may be forced to sell assets or take other disadvantageous actions, including (i) reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes or (ii) dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. the lenders who hold such debt could also accelerate amounts due, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of any of our other debt. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation in ireland and tax residency in the u.k. we are subject to changes in law and other factors that may not allow us to maintain a worldwide effective corporate tax rate that is competitive in our industry. while we believe that we should be able to maintain a worldwide effective corporate tax rate that is competitive in our industry, we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be in the future because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. also, the tax laws of the u.s., the u.k., ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our worldwide effective corporate tax rate. in particular, legislative action could be taken by the u.s., the u.k., ireland or the european union which could override tax treaties or modify tax statutes or regulations upon which we expect to rely and adversely affect our effective tax rate. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding our incorporation in ireland or limiting our ability as an irish company to maintain tax residency in the u.k. and take advantage of the tax treaties among the u.s., the u.k. and ireland, we could be subject to increased taxation, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods. a change in our tax residency could have a negative effect on our future profitability, and may trigger taxes on dividends or exit charges. under current irish legislation, a company is regarded as resident for tax purposes in ireland if it is centrally managed and controlled in ireland, or, in certain circumstances, if it is incorporated in ireland. under current u.k. legislation, a company that is centrally managed and controlled in the u.k. is regarded as resident in the u.k. for taxation purposes unless it is treated as resident in another jurisdiction pursuant to any appropriate double tax treaty with the u.k. other jurisdictions may also seek to assert taxing jurisdiction over pentair. where a company is treated as tax resident under the domestic laws of both the u.k. and ireland, article 4(3) of the double tax convention between ireland and the u.k. (the "residence tie-breaker") currently provides that the company shall be treated as resident only in one of those two jurisdictions if its place of effective management is situated in that jurisdiction. the organisation for economic co-operation and development has proposed a number of measures relating to the tax treatment of multinationals, some of which are to be implemented by amending double tax treaties through a multilateral instrument (the "mli"). the mli has been signed by a number of countries, including ireland and the u.k. the mli allows signatories to opt into or out of certain changes: the effect for a given double tax convention depends on the options chosen by 13 the two contracting states. ireland and the u.k. have indicated they intend to change the residence tie-breaker so that it will depend on a ruling by the tax authorities of the two contracting states, instead of an objective application of the place of effective management test. accordingly, if ireland and the u.k. maintain their position and enough other countries ratify the mli, the residence tie-breaker would be amended to depend on a determination by irish revenue commissioners and the u.k. hm revenue and customs. it is not certain when this will take place nor what factors will be taken into account in making the determination, but we do not expect such a determination to alter our tax residency. it is possible that in the future, whether as a result of a change in law (including the entry into force of the mli or a change to the intention of ireland or the u.k. in relation to the mli) or the practice of any relevant tax authority or as a result of any change in the conduct of our affairs, we could become, or be regarded as having become, resident in a jurisdiction other than the u.k. if pentair ceases to be resident in the u.k. and becomes resident in another jurisdiction, it may be subject to u.k. exit charges, and could become liable for additional tax charges in the other jurisdiction (including dividend withholding taxes or corporate income tax charges). if pentair were to be treated as resident in more than one jurisdiction, it could be subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. if, for example, pentair were considered to be a tax resident of ireland, we could become liable for irish corporation tax and any dividends paid by it could be subject to irish dividend withholding tax. irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the u.s. against us in ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the u.s. currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in ireland. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the u.s. transfers of our ordinary shares may be subject to irish stamp duty. transfers of our ordinary shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in the depository trust company ("dtc") will not be subject to irish stamp duty. however, if you hold your ordinary shares directly rather than beneficially through dtc, any transfer of your ordinary shares could be subject to irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1 percent of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired). payment of irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. we currently intend to pay, or cause one of our affiliates to pay, stamp duty in connection with share transfers made in the ordinary course of trading by a seller who holds shares directly to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially. in other cases we may, in our absolute discretion, pay or cause one of our affiliates to pay any stamp duty. our articles of association provide that, in the event of any such payment, we (i) may seek reimbursement from the buyer, (ii) will have a lien against the shares acquired by such buyer and any dividends paid on such shares and (iii) may set-off the amount of the stamp duty against future dividends on such shares. parties to a share transfer may assume that any stamp duty arising in respect of a transaction in our shares has been paid unless one or both of such parties is otherwise notified by us. our ordinary shares, received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to irish capital acquisitions tax. irish capital acquisitions tax ("cat") could apply to a gift or inheritance of our ordinary shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. this is because our shares will be regarded as property situated in ireland. the person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for cat. gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from cat. children have a tax-free threshold of 310,000 per lifetime in respect of taxable gifts or inheritances received from their parents for periods on or after october 12, 2016. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. periodically, we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of changes in interest rates. counterparties to all derivative contracts are major financial institutions. all instruments are entered into for other than trading purposes. the major accounting policies and utilization of these instruments is described more fully in item 8, note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. interest rate risk our debt portfolio as of december 31, 2017 , was comprised of debt predominantly denominated in u.s. dollars. this debt portfolio is comprised of 96% fixed-rate debt and 4% variable-rate debt. changes in interest rates have different impacts on the fixed and variable-rate portions of our debt portfolio. a change in interest rates on the fixed portion of the debt portfolio impacts the fair value, but has no impact on interest incurred or cash flows. a change in interest rates on the variable portion of the debt portfolio impacts the interest incurred and cash flows but does not impact the net financial instrument position. based on the fixed-rate debt included in our debt portfolio, as of december 31, 2017 , a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $28.6 million decrease or a $29.3 million increase in fair value, respectively. based on the variable-rate debt included in our debt portfolio as of december 31, 2017 , a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $0.6 million increase or decrease in interest incurred. foreign currency risk we conduct business in various locations throughout the world and are subject to market risk due to changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar. periodically, we use derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. the functional currencies of our foreign operating locations are generally the local currency in the country of domicile. we manage these operating activities at the local level and revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are generally denominated in local currencies, thereby mitigating the risk associated with changes in foreign exchange. however, our results of operations and assets and liabilities are reported in u.s. dollars and thus will fluctuate with changes in exchange rates between such local currencies and the u.s. dollar. from time to time, we may enter into short duration foreign currency contracts to hedge foreign currency risks. as the majority of our foreign currency contracts have an original maturity date of less than one year, there is no material foreign currency risk. at december 31, 2017 and 2016 , we had outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts with gross notional u.s. dollar equivalent amounts of $481.4 million and $475.6 million , respectively. changes in the fair value of all derivatives are recognized immediately in income unless the derivative qualifies as a hedge of future cash flows. gains and losses related to a hedge are deferred and recorded in the consolidated balance sheets as a component of aoci and subsequently recognized in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) when the hedged item affects earnings. in september 2015, we designated the 500.0 million 2.45% senior notes due 2019 (the "2019 euro notes") as a net investment hedge of our investments in certain international subsidiaries that use the euro as their functional currency. the hedge is intended to reduce, but will not eliminate, the impact on our financial results of changes in the exchange rate between the euro and the u.s. dollar. the currency risk related to the net investment hedge is measured by estimating the potential impact of a 10% change in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro. the rates used to perform this analysis were based on the market exchange rates in effect on december 31, 2017 . a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro would result in a $54.0 million net increase in other comprehensive income. conversely, a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro would result in a $66.0 million net decrease in other comprehensive income. however, these increases and decreases in other comprehensive income would be offset by decreases or increases in the hedged net investments on our balance sheet due to currency translation. 38risk factors 4 risk factors you should carefully consider all of the information in this document and the following risk factors before making an investment decision regarding our securities. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this document. risks relating to our business general global economic and business conditions affect demand for our products. we compete in various geographic regions and product markets around the world. among these, the most significant are global industrial, commercial, and residential markets. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in revenues and results of operations due to economic and business cycles. important factors for our businesses and the businesses of our customers include the overall strength of the economy and our customers' confidence in the economy, industrial and governmental capital spending, the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets, the residential housing market, the commercial business climate, unemployment rates, availability of consumer and commercial financing, interest rates, and energy and commodity prices. the businesses of many of our industrial customers are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. while we attempt to minimize our exposure to economic or market fluctuations by serving a balanced mix of end markets and geographic regions, any of the above factors, individually or in the aggregate, or a significant or sustained downturn in a specific end market or geographic region could reduce demand for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 4 we compete in attractive markets with a high level of competition, which may result in pressure on our profit margins and limit our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products and services are geographically diverse and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies and lower cost manufacturers. we compete based on technical expertise, intellectual property, reputation for quality and reliability, timeliness of delivery, previous installation history, contractual terms, service offerings, customer experience and service, and price. some of our competitors, in particular smaller companies, attempt to compete based primarily on price, localized expertise and local relationships, especially with respect to products and applications that do not require a great deal of engineering or technical expertise. in addition, during economic downturns average selling prices tend to decrease as market participants compete more aggressively on price. if we are unable to continue to differentiate our products, services and solutions, or if we are forced to cut prices or to incur additional costs to remain competitive, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. volatility in currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. sales outside of the u.s. for the year ended december 31, 2018 accounted for 37% of our net sales. our financial statements reflect translation of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars. therefore, if the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the principal non-u.s. currencies from which we derive revenue as compared to a prior period, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will effectively be decreased to the extent of the change in currency valuations, and vice-versa. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, most notably the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro, could have a material adverse effect on our reported revenue in future periods. in addition, currency variations could have a material adverse effect on margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the u.s. and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the u.s. our future growth is dependent upon our ability to continue to adapt our products, services and organization to meet the demands of local markets in both developed and emerging economies and by developing or acquiring new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. we operate in global markets that are characterized by customer demand that is often global in scope but localized in delivery. we compete with thousands of smaller regional and local companies that may be positioned to offer products produced at lower cost than ours, or to capitalize on highly localized relationships and knowledge that are difficult for us to replicate. also, in several emerging markets potential customers prefer local suppliers, in some cases because of existing relationships and in other cases because of local legal restrictions or incentives that favor local businesses. accordingly, our future success depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to adapt our products, services, organization, workforce and sales strategies to fit localities throughout the world, particularly in high growth emerging markets; identify emerging technological and other trends in our target end-markets; and develop or acquire competitive products and services and bring them to market quickly and cost-effectively. the failure to effectively adapt our products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to identify, finance and complete suitable acquisitions and investments, and any completed acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources. our business strategy includes acquiring businesses and making investments that complement our existing businesses. we continue to analyze and evaluate the acquisition of strategic businesses or product lines with the potential to strengthen our industry position or enhance our existing set of product and service offerings. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, obtain financing or have sufficient cash necessary for acquisitions or successfully complete acquisitions in the future. any acquisitions that we complete may not be successful. acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrences, equity issuances, operating losses and expenses. acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; difficulties in obtaining and verifying the financial statements and other business information of acquired businesses; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of acquired companies or of ours; assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including risks relating to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ); and dilution of interests of holders of our shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities. 5 it may be difficult for us to integrate acquired operations, including those from our recent acquisitions of aquion, inc. and pelican water systems, efficiently into our business operations. any acquisitions or investments may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our business initiatives. during 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , we initiated and continued execution of certain business initiatives aimed at reducing our fixed cost structure and realigning our business. as a result, we have incurred substantial expense, including restructuring charges. we may not be able to achieve the operating efficiencies to reduce costs or realize benefits that were anticipated in connection with these initiatives. if we are unable to execute these initiatives as planned, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows . we are exposed to political, regulatory, economic, trade, and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. sales outside of the u.s. for the year ended december 31, 2018 accounted for 37% of our net sales. further, most of our businesses obtain some products, components and raw materials from non-u.s. suppliers. accordingly, our business is subject to the political, regulatory, economic, trade, and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. these risks include: changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; relatively more severe economic conditions in some international markets than in the u.s.; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other trade restrictions; changes in tax treaties, laws or rulings that could have a material adverse impact on our effective tax rate; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through non-u.s. legal systems; the difficulty of communicating and monitoring standards and directives across our global facilities; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements and restrictions; the possibility of terrorist action affecting us or our operations; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations in non-u.s. labor markets; limitations on repatriation of earnings; the difficulty of protecting intellectual property in non-u.s. countries; and changes in and required compliance with a variety of non-u.s. laws and regulations. in 2016, the united kingdom voted in a referendum to exit the european union ( brexit ), which resulted in significant currency exchange rate fluctuations and volatility. negotiations continue to determine the terms of brexit. given the lack of comparable precedent and the status of the negotiations, the implications of brexit, or how such implications might affect our company, continue to remain unclear at this time. brexit could, among other impacts, disrupt trade and the movement of goods, services and people between the united kingdom and the european union or other countries as well as create legal and global economic uncertainty. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. we cannot assure that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business as a whole. changes in u.s. or foreign government administrative policy, including changes to existing trade agreements, could have a material adverse effect on us. as a result of changes to u.s. or foreign government administrative policy, there may be changes to existing trade agreements, like the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) and its anticipated successor agreement, the u.s.-mexico-canada agreement ( usmca ) which is still subject to approval by the u.s., mexico and canada, greater restrictions on free trade generally, and significant increases in tariffs on goods imported into the u.s., particularly tariffs on products manufactured in mexico, china, or other u.s. trading countries where we have operations or manufacture or sell products, among other possible changes. if the usmca is ratified by all three countries, many of its provisions will not take effect until 2020. while the usmca is somewhat similar to nafta, it contains several new compliance obligations addressing such issues as rules of origin, labor standard, certificate of origin documentation and de minimis thresholds, as well as new policies on labor and environmental standards, intellectual property protections and some digital trade provisions. we are currently analyzing the expected impact of the usmca. while certain aspects of the usmca are expected to be positive, others, including potentially higher regulatory compliance costs, may have an adverse impact on our business. it remains unclear what the u.s. 6 administration or foreign governments, including china, will or will not do with respect to tariffs, nafta, usmca or other international trade agreements and policies. a trade war, other governmental action related to tariffs or international trade agreements, including nafta and usmca, changes in u.s. social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories and countries where we currently manufacture and sell products, and any resulting negative sentiments towards the u.s. as a result of such changes, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may experience cost and other inflation. in the past, we have experienced material cost and other inflation in a number of our businesses. we strive for productivity improvements and implement increases in selling prices to help mitigate cost increases in raw materials (especially metals and resins), energy and other costs including wages, pension, health care and insurance. we continue to implement operational initiatives in order to mitigate the impacts of this inflation and continuously reduce our costs. however, these actions may not be successful in managing our costs or increasing our productivity. continued cost inflation or failure of our initiatives to generate cost savings or improve productivity could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. intellectual property challenges may hinder our ability to develop, engineer and market our products. patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies, customer relationships, trademarks, trade names and brand names are important to our business. intellectual property protection, however, may not preclude competitors from developing products similar to ours or from challenging our names or products. our pending patent applications, and our pending copyright and trademark registration applications, may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. in addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. over the past few years, we have noticed an increasing tendency for participants in our markets to use challenges to intellectual property as a means to compete. patent and trademark challenges increase our costs to develop, engineer and market our products. we may need to spend significant resources monitoring, enforcing and defending our intellectual property rights and we may or may not be able to detect infringement by third parties. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights or register new patents, our competitive position could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have significant goodwill and intangible assets and future impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on at least an annual basis, and more frequently if circumstances warrant. as of december 31, 2018 our goodwill and intangible assets were $2,349 million and represented 62% of our total assets. declines in fair market value could result in future goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges. a loss of, or material cancellation, reduction, or delay in purchases by, one or more of our largest customers could harm our business. our net sales to our largest customer represented approximately 15% of our consolidated net sales in 2018. while we do not have any other customers that accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales in 2018, we have other customers that are key to the success of our business. our concentration of sales to a relatively small number of larger customers makes our relationship with each of these customers important to our business. our success is dependent on retaining these customers, which requires us to successfully manage relationships and anticipate the needs of our customers in the channels in which we sell our products. our customers also may be impacted by economic conditions in the industries of those customers, which could result in reduced demand for our products. we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to retain our largest customers. in addition, some of our customers may shift their purchases to our competitors in the future. the loss of one or more of our largest customers, any material cancellation, reduction, or delay in purchases by these customers, or our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a material disruption at any of our manufacturing facilities could cause us to be unable to meet customer demands or increase our costs. if operations at any of our manufacturing facilities were to be disrupted as a result of significant equipment failures, natural disasters, earthquakes, power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, adverse weather conditions, labor disputes or other reasons, we may be unable to fill customer orders and otherwise meet customer demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. interruptions in production, in particular at our manufacturing facilities, could increase our costs and reduce our sales. any interruption in production capability could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to fill customer orders. we maintain property damage insurance that we believe to be adequate to provide for reconstruction of facilities and equipment, as well as business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from any production interruption or shutdown caused by an insured loss. however, any recovery under our insurance policies may not offset the lost sales or increased costs that may be experienced 7 during the disruption of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. seasonality of sales and weather conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we experience seasonal demand with end-customers and end-users within each of our business segments. demand for pool equipment in the aquatic systems segment, water filtration products in the filtration solutions segment, and residential water supply, infrastructure and agricultural products in the flow technologies segment follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs from april to august. while we attempt to mitigate the magnitude of the sales spike in the aquatic systems and flow technologies segments by employing some advance sale early buy programs (generally including extended payment terms and/or additional discounts), we cannot provide any assurance that such programs will be successful. in addition, seasonal effects in the flow technologies segment may vary from year to year and be impacted by weather patterns, particularly by temperature, heavy flooding and droughts. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our credit agreements and indentures contain customary financial covenants, including those that limit the amount of our debt, which may restrict the operations of our business and our ability to incur additional debt to finance acquisitions. our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and, in the case of credit facility lenders, terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital or our credit ratings may be downgraded in the future, which could affect our financial condition, and may decrease our profitability. as of december 31, 2018 , we had $788 million of total debt outstanding. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, subject to restrictions in our debt agreements. if our cash flow from operations is less than we anticipate, if our cash requirements are more than we expect, or if we intend to finance acquisitions, we may require more financing. however, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. if we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of additional capital shares, the terms of the debt or capital shares issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our ordinary shares, particularly in the event of liquidation. the terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. if we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, the percentage ownership of existing shareholders in our company would decline. if we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, our financial condition could be adversely affected. unfavorable changes in the ratings that rating agencies assign to our debt may ultimately negatively impact our access to the debt capital markets and increase the costs we incur to borrow funds. if ratings for our debt fall below investment grade, our access to the debt capital markets may become restricted. additionally, our credit agreements generally include an increase in interest rates if the ratings for our debt are downgraded. our leverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our existing debt as well as any future debt that we may incur, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due, we may be forced to sell assets or take other disadvantageous actions, including (i) reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes or (ii) dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. the lenders who hold such debt could also accelerate amounts due, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of any of our other debt. disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect us, our customers and our suppliers by increasing funding costs or reducing availability of credit. in the normal course of our business, we may access credit markets for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, acquisitions, additions to working capital, repurchase of shares, capital expenditures and investments in our subsidiaries. although we expect to have sufficient liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets, which have occurred in the past and made financing terms for borrowers unattractive or unavailable. these factors may make it more difficult or expensive for us to access credit markets if the need arises. in addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for prospective customers to commence new projects, as customers and suppliers may experience 8 increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. disruptions in the financial markets have had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slowdown in general economic activity that may continue to adversely affect our businesses. one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our share price may fluctuate significantly. we cannot predict the prices at which our shares may trade. the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain third-party financing as needed; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; changes in earnings estimates or guidance by us or securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates or guidance; the operating and share price performance of other comparable companies; investor perception of us; overall market fluctuations; results from any material litigation, government investigations or environmental liabilities; natural or other environmental disasters; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our share price. risks relating to legal, regulatory and compliance matters violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption laws outside the u.s. could have a material adverse effect on us. the fcpa and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the u.s. department of justice and the sec, increased enforcement activity by non-u.s. regulators and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. because many of our customers and end users are involved in infrastructure construction and energy production, they are often subject to increased scrutiny by regulators. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third-party intermediaries. in the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or agents have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the fcpa we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. violations of these laws may require self-disclosure to government agencies and result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our failure to satisfy international trade compliance regulations, and changes in u.s. government sanctions, could have a material adverse effect on us. our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. certain of the products we manufacture are dual use products, which are products that may have both civil and military applications, or may otherwise be involved in weapons proliferation, and are often subject to more stringent export controls. 9 from time to time, we obtain or receive information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. our policy mandates strict compliance with u.s. and non-u.s. trade laws applicable to our products. however, even when we are in strict compliance with law and our policies, we may suffer reputational damage if certain of our products are sold through various intermediaries to entities operating in sanctioned countries. when we receive information alleging improper activity, our policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting our findings to relevant government authorities. nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not always protect us from actions that would violate u.s. and/or non-u.s. laws. any improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and business prospects. we are exposed to potential environmental laws, liabilities and litigation. we are subject to u.s. federal, state, local and non-u.s. laws and regulations governing our environmental practices, public and worker health and safety, and the indoor and outdoor environment. compliance with these environmental, health and safety regulations could require us to satisfy environmental liabilities, increase the cost of manufacturing our products or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. any violations of these laws by us could cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities. we are also required to comply with various environmental laws and maintain permits, some of which are subject to renewal from time to time, for many of our businesses and we could suffer if we are unable to renew existing permits or to obtain any additional permits that we may require. compliance with environmental requirements also could require significant operating or capital expenditures or result in significant operational restrictions. we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. we have been named as defendant, target or a potentially responsible party ( prp ) in a number of environmental clean-ups relating to our current or former business units. we have disposed of a number of businesses in recent years and in certain cases, we have retained responsibility and potential liability for certain environmental obligations. we have received claims for indemnification from certain purchasers. we may be named as a prp at other sites in the future for existing business units, as well as both divested and acquired businesses. in addition to clean-up actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. certain environmental laws impose liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. we have projects underway at several current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from our past operations or by other businesses that previously owned or used the properties. the cost of clean-up and other environmental liabilities can be difficult to accurately predict. in addition, environmental requirements change and tend to become more stringent over time. our eventual environmental clean-up costs and liabilities could exceed the amount of our current reserves. our subsidiaries are party to asbestos-related product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our subsidiaries, along with numerous other companies, are named as defendants in a substantial number of lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials, substantially all of which relate to our discontinued operations. these cases typically involve product liability claims based primarily on allegations of manufacture, sale or distribution of industrial products that either contained asbestos or were attached to or used with asbestos-containing components manufactured by third parties. each case typically names between several dozen to more than a hundred corporate defendants. historically, our subsidiaries have been identified as defendants in asbestos-related claims. our strategy has been, and continues to be, to mount a vigorous defense aimed at having unsubstantiated suits dismissed, and, only where appropriate, settling claims before trial. as of december 31, 2018 , there were approximately 600 claims pending against our subsidiaries, substantially all of which relate to our discontinued operations. we cannot predict with certainty the extent to which we will be successful in litigating or otherwise resolving lawsuits in the future and we continue to evaluate different strategies related to asbestos claims filed against us including entity restructuring and judicial relief. unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. the u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) has published findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other greenhouse gases ( ghgs ) present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to the warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climate changes. based on these findings, the epa has implemented regulations that require reporting of ghg emissions, or 10 that limit emissions of ghgs from certain mobile or stationary sources. in addition, the u.s. congress and federal and state regulatory agencies have considered other legislation and regulatory proposals to reduce emissions of ghgs, and many states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of ghgs, primarily through the development of ghg inventories, ghg permitting and/or regional ghg cap-and-trade programs. it is uncertain whether, when and in what form a federal mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program, or other state programs, may be adopted. similarly, certain countries have adopted the kyoto protocol and/or the paris accord, and these and other existing international initiatives or those under consideration could affect our international operations. to the extent our customers, particularly our energy and industrial customers, are subject to any of these or other similar proposed or newly enacted laws and regulations, we are exposed to risks that the additional costs by customers to comply with such laws and regulations could impact their ability or desire to continue to operate at similar levels in certain jurisdictions as historically seen or as currently anticipated, which could negatively impact their demand for our products and services. these actions could also increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for raw materials and transportation. it is uncertain what laws will be enacted and therefore we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. increased information technology security threats and computer crime pose a risk to our systems, networks, products and services, and we are exposed to potential regulatory, financial and reputational risks relating to the protection of our data. we rely upon information technology systems and networks in connection with a variety of business activities, some of which are managed by third parties. as our business increasingly interfaces with employees, customers, dealers and suppliers using information technology systems and networks, we are subject to an increased risk to the secure operation of these systems and networks. the secure operation of these information technology systems and networks is critical to our business operations and strategy. information technology security threats -- from user error to attacks designed to gain unauthorized access to our systems, networks and data -- are increasing in frequency and sophistication. these threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the data we process and maintain. establishing systems and processes to address these threats may increase our costs. we have experienced data breaches, and, although we have determined such data breaches to be immaterial and such data breaches have not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, there can be no assurance of similar results in the future. should future attacks succeed in the theft of assets, exporting sensitive data or financial information or controlling sensitive systems or networks, it could expose us and our employees, customers, dealers and suppliers to the theft of assets, misuse of information or systems, the compromising of confidential information, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, and production downtimes and operations disruptions. the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, such breaches in security could result in litigation, regulatory action and potential liability and the costs and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures. changes in data privacy laws and our ability to comply with them could have a material adverse effect on us. we collect and store data that is sensitive to pentair and its employees, customers, dealers and suppliers. a variety of state, national, foreign and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, security, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal and other data. many foreign data privacy regulations, including the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which became effective in the european union in 2018, are more stringent than those in the united states. these laws and regulations are rapidly evolving and changing, and could have an adverse effect on our operations. companies' obligations and requirements under these laws and regulations are subject to uncertainty in how they may be interpreted by government authorities. the costs of compliance with, and the other burdens imposed by, these and other laws or regulatory actions may increase our operational costs, and/or result in interruptions or delays in the availability of systems. in the case of non-compliance these laws, including the gdpr, regulators have the authority to levy significant fines. in addition, if there is a breach of privacy, we may be required to make notifications under data privacy regulations. the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be negatively impacted by litigation and other claims. we are currently, and may in the future, become subject to litigation and other claims. these legal proceedings are typically claims that relate to the conduct of our business and include, without limitation, claims relating to commercial or contractual disputes with suppliers, customers or parties to acquisitions and divestitures, intellectual property matters, environmental, safety and health matters, product liability, the use or installation of our products, consumer matters, and employment and labor matters. the outcome of such legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty and some may be disposed of unfavorably to us. we also may not have insurance that covers such claims. while we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms and this insurance may not provide adequate protection against potential or previously existing liabilities. in addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. further, some of our business involves the sale of our products to customers that are constructing large and complex systems, facilities or other capital projects and while we generally try to limit our exposure liquidated damages, 11 consequential damages and other damages in the contracts for these projects, we could be exposed to significant monetary damages and other liabilities in connection with the sale of our products for these projects for a variety of reasons. successful claims or litigation against us for significant amounts could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks relating to the separation of nvent electric plc by spin-off we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the spin-off. on april 30, 2018, we completed the separation of our electrical business through the spin-off nvent electric plc to our shareholders. following the spin-off, we are a smaller and less diversified company with a narrower business focus and, as a result, we may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions. although we believe that the spin-off of nvent electric plc will provide financial, operational, managerial and other benefits to us and our shareholders, the spin-off may not provide the results on the scope or on the scale we anticipate, and we may not realize any or all of the intended benefits. in addition, we have and will continue to incur one-time costs and ongoing costs in connection with, or as a result of, the spin-off, including costs of operating as independent, publicly-traded companies that the two businesses are no longer able to share. those costs may exceed our estimates or could negate some of the benefits we expect to realize. if we do not realize the intended benefits or if our costs exceed our estimates, we could suffer a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and trading prices. the spin-off transaction could result in substantial tax liability to us and our shareholders if the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction. the spin-off was conditioned on our receipt of opinions of tax advisors and tax rulings from taxing authorities. however, these tax opinions will not be binding on taxing authorities. accordingly, taxing authorities or the courts may reach conclusions with respect to the spin-off that are different from the conclusions reached in such opinions. moreover, such opinions were based on certain statements and representations made by us, which, if incomplete or inaccurate in any material respect, could invalidate the opinions. if the spin-off and certain related transactions were determined to be taxable, we could be subject to a substantial tax liability that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, if the spin-off were taxable, each holder of our ordinary shares who received shares of nvent electric plc in the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received. we may be exposed to claims and liabilities as a result of the spin-off. in connection with the spin-off, we and nvent electric plc entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements, including a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement and an employee matters agreement. these agreements provide for the performance of services by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time after the spin-off and provide for specific indemnity and liability obligations. the indemnity rights we have against nvent under the agreements may not be sufficient to protect us. in addition, our indemnity obligations to nvent may be significant and these risks could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation in ireland and tax residency in the u.k. we are subject to changes in law and other factors that may not allow us to maintain a worldwide effective corporate tax rate that is competitive in our industry. while we believe that we should be able to maintain a worldwide effective corporate tax rate that is competitive in our industry, we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be in the future because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. also, the tax laws of the u.s., the u.k., ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our worldwide effective corporate tax rate. these changes include the tax cuts and jobs act enacted in the u.s. in december 2017, which made significant changes to certain u.s. tax laws relevant to us, including limitations on the deductibility of certain interest expense and employee compensation, limitations on various other deductions and credits, the imposition of taxes in respect of certain cross-border payments or transfers, the imposition of taxes on certain earnings of non-u.s. entities on a current basis, and changes in the timing of the recognition of income or its character. these items and regulations and guidance implementing the tax cuts and jobs act could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods. in addition, legislative action could be taken by the u.s., the u.k., ireland or the european union which could override tax treaties or modify tax statutes or regulations upon which we expect to rely and adversely affect our effective tax rate. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding our incorporation in ireland or limiting our ability as an irish company to maintain tax residency in the u.k. and take advantage of the tax treaties among the u.s., the u.k. and ireland, we could be subject to increased taxation, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods. 12 a change in our tax residency could have a negative effect on our future profitability, and may trigger taxes on dividends or exit charges. under current irish legislation, a company is regarded as resident for tax purposes in ireland if it is centrally managed and controlled in ireland, or, in certain circumstances, if it is incorporated in ireland. under current u.k. legislation, a company that is centrally managed and controlled in the u.k. is regarded as resident in the u.k. for taxation purposes unless it is treated as resident in another jurisdiction pursuant to any appropriate double tax treaty with the u.k. other jurisdictions may also seek to assert taxing jurisdiction over pentair. where a company is treated as tax resident under the domestic laws of both the u.k. and ireland, article 4(3) of the double tax convention between ireland and the u.k. (the residence tie-breaker ) currently provides that the company shall be treated as resident only in one of those two jurisdictions if its place of effective management is situated in that jurisdiction. the organisation for economic co-operation and development has proposed a number of measures relating to the tax treatment of multinationals, some of which are to be implemented by amending double tax treaties through a multilateral instrument (the mli ). the mli has been signed and ratified by a number of countries, including ireland and the u.k. the mli allows signatories to opt into or out of certain changes: the effect for a given double tax convention depends on the options chosen by the two contracting states. ireland and the u.k. have confirmed that they intend to change the residence tie-breaker so that a company will not cease being dual resident until there is a determination by the tax authorities of the two contracting states, instead of an objective application of the place of effective management test. the mli has not yet entered into force effect in order to amend the residence tie-breaker. under ireland's domestic tax residency rules, pentair should not be irish resident until january 1, 2021 (provided that there is no change in ownership and no major change in the nature or conduct of the business of the company before that date, in which case the residence tie-breaker should apply from the date of the change of ownership). accordingly, we do not expect the change to the residence tie-breaker to have effect until january 1, 2021 at the earliest. it is possible that in the future, whether as a result of a change in law (including the entry into force and effect of the mli) or the practice of any relevant tax authority or as a result of any change in the conduct of our affairs, we could become, or be regarded as having become, resident in a jurisdiction other than the u.k. if pentair ceases to be resident in the u.k. and becomes resident in another jurisdiction, it may be subject to u.k. exit charges, and could become liable for additional tax charges in the other jurisdiction (including dividend withholding taxes or corporate income tax charges). if pentair were to be treated as resident in more than one jurisdiction, it could be subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. if, for example, pentair were considered to be a tax resident of ireland, we could become liable for irish corporation tax and any dividends paid by it could be subject to irish dividend withholding tax. irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the u.s. against us in ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the u.s. currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in ireland. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the u.s. 13 transfers of our ordinary shares may be subject to irish stamp duty. transfers of our ordinary shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in the depository trust company ( dtc ) will not be subject to irish stamp duty. however, if you hold your ordinary shares directly rather than beneficially through dtc, any transfer of your ordinary shares could be subject to irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1 percent of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired). payment of irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. we currently intend to pay, or cause one of our affiliates to pay, stamp duty in connection with share transfers made in the ordinary course of trading by a seller who holds shares directly to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially. in other cases we may, in our absolute discretion, pay or cause one of our affiliates to pay any stamp duty. our articles of association provide that, in the event of any such payment, we (i) may seek reimbursement from the buyer, (ii) will have a lien against the shares acquired by such buyer and any dividends paid on such shares and (iii) may set-off the amount of the stamp duty against future dividends on such shares. parties to a share transfer may assume that any stamp duty arising in respect of a transaction in our shares has been paid unless one or both of such parties is otherwise notified by us. our ordinary shares, received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to irish capital acquisitions tax. irish capital acquisitions tax ( cat ) could apply to a gift or inheritance of our ordinary shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. this is because our shares will be regarded as property situated in ireland. the person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for cat. gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from cat. children have a tax-free threshold of 320,000 per lifetime in respect of taxable gifts or inheritances received from their parents for periods on or after october 10, 2018. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. periodically, we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. counterparties to all derivative contracts are major financial institutions. all instruments are entered into for other than trading purposes. the major accounting policies and utilization of these instruments is described more fully in item 8, note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. interest rate risk our debt portfolio as of december 31, 2018 , was comprised of debt predominantly denominated in u.s. dollars. this debt portfolio is comprised of 88% fixed-rate debt and 12% variable-rate debt. changes in interest rates have different impacts on the fixed and variable-rate portions of our debt portfolio. a change in interest rates on the fixed portion of the debt portfolio impacts the fair value, but has no impact on interest incurred or cash flows. a change in interest rates on the variable portion of the debt portfolio impacts the interest incurred and cash flows but does not impact the net financial instrument position. based on the fixed-rate debt included in our debt portfolio, as of december 31, 2018 , a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in an $11.6 million decrease or a $12.0 million increase in fair value, respectively. based on the variable-rate debt included in our debt portfolio as of december 31, 2018 , a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $1.0 million increase or decrease in interest incurred. foreign currency risk we conduct business in various locations throughout the world and are subject to market risk due to changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar. periodically, we use derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. the functional currencies of our foreign operating locations are generally the local currency in the country of domicile. we manage these operating activities at the local level and revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are generally denominated in local currencies, thereby mitigating the risk associated with changes in foreign exchange. however, our results of operations and assets and liabilities are reported in u.s. dollars and thus will fluctuate with changes in exchange rates between such local currencies and the u.s. dollar. from time to time, we may enter into short duration foreign currency contracts to hedge foreign currency risks. as the majority of our foreign currency contracts have an original maturity date of less than one year, there is no material foreign currency risk. at december 31, 2018 and 2017 , we had outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts with gross notional u.s. dollar equivalent amounts of $331.4 million and $481.4 million , respectively. changes in the fair value of all derivatives are recognized immediately in income unless the derivative qualifies as a hedge of future cash flows. gains and losses related to a hedge are deferred and recorded in the consolidated balance sheets as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss and subsequently recognized in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income when the hedged item affects earnings. at december 31, 2018, we had 136.6 million 2.45% senior notes due 2019 (the 2019 euro notes ) designated as a net investment hedge of our investments in certain international subsidiaries that use the euro as their functional currency. the hedge is intended to reduce, but will not eliminate, the impact on our financial results of changes in the exchange rate between the euro and the u.s. dollar. the currency risk related to the net investment hedge is measured by estimating the potential impact of a 10% change in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro. the rates used to perform this analysis were based on the market exchange rates in effect on december 31, 2018 . a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro would result in a $14.1 million net increase in accumulated other comprehensive loss . conversely, a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro would result in a $17.2 million net decrease in accumulated other comprehensive loss . however, 36 these increases and decreases in other comprehensive income would be offset by decreases or increases in the hedged net investments on our balance sheet due to currency translation. 37risk factors 5 risk factors you should carefully consider all of the information in this document and the following risk factors before making an investment decision regarding our securities. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this document. risks relating to our business general global economic and business conditions affect demand for our products. we compete in various geographic regions and product markets around the world. among these, the most significant are global industrial, commercial, and residential markets. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in revenues and results of operations due to economic and business cycles. important factors for our businesses and the businesses of our customers include the overall strength of the global economy and various regional economies and our customers' confidence in these economies, industrial and governmental capital spending, the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets, the residential housing market, the commercial business climate, unemployment rates, availability of consumer and commercial financing, interest rates, and energy and commodity prices. the businesses of many of our industrial customers are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. while we attempt to minimize our exposure to economic or market fluctuations by serving a balanced mix of end markets and geographic regions, any of the above factors, individually or in the aggregate, or a significant or sustained downturn in a specific end market or geographic region could reduce demand for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we compete in attractive markets with a high level of competition, which may result in pressure on our profit margins and limit our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products and services are geographically diverse and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies and lower cost manufacturers. competition may also result from new entrants into the markets we serve, offering products and/or services that compete with us. we compete based on technical expertise, intellectual property, reputation for quality and reliability, timeliness of delivery, previous installation history, contractual terms, service offerings, customer experience and service, and price. competition may also result from new entrants into the markets we serve, offering products and/or services that compete with us. some of our competitors, in particular smaller companies, attempt to compete based primarily on price, localized expertise and local relationships, especially with respect to products and applications that do not require a great deal of engineering or technical expertise. in addition, during economic downturns average selling prices tend to decrease as market participants compete more aggressively on price. moreover, demand for our products, which impacts profit margins, is affected by changes in customer order patterns, such as changes in the levels of inventory maintained by customers and the timing of customer purchases, and changes in customers' preferences for our products, including the success of products offered by our competitors. customer purchasing behavior may also shift by product mix in the market or result in a shift to new distribution channels, including e-commerce, which is a rapidly developing area. if we are unable to continue to differentiate our products, services and solutions or adapt to changes in customer purchasing behavior or shifts in distribution channels, or if we are forced to cut prices or to incur additional costs to remain competitive, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. volatility in currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. sales outside of the u.s. for the year ended december 31, 2019 accounted for 37% of our net sales. our financial statements reflect translation of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars. therefore, if the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the principal non-u.s. currencies from which we derive revenue as compared to a prior period, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will effectively be decreased to the extent of the change in currency valuations, and vice-versa. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, most notably the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro, could have a 5 material adverse effect on our reported revenue in future periods. in addition, currency variations could have a material adverse effect on margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the u.s. and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the u.s. our future growth is dependent upon our ability to transform and adapt our products, services, solutions, and organization to meet the demands of local markets in both developed and emerging economies and by developing or acquiring new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. we operate in global markets that are characterized by customer demand that is often global in scope but localized in delivery. we compete with thousands of smaller regional and local companies that may be positioned to offer products produced at lower cost than ours, or to capitalize on highly localized relationships and knowledge that are difficult for us to replicate. also, in several emerging markets, potential customers prefer local suppliers, in some cases because of existing relationships and in other cases because of local legal restrictions or incentives that favor local businesses. accordingly, our future success depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to transform and adapt our products, services, solutions, organization, workforce and sales strategies to fit localities throughout the world, particularly in high growth emerging markets; identify emerging technological and other trends in our target end markets; and develop or acquire competitive technologies, products, services, and solutions and bring them to market quickly and cost-effectively. the failure to effectively adapt our products, services, or solutions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to identify, finance and complete suitable acquisitions and investments, and any completed acquisitions and investments may be unsuccessful or consume significant resources. our business strategy includes acquiring businesses and making investments that complement our existing businesses. we continue to analyze and evaluate the acquisition of strategic businesses or product lines with the potential to strengthen our industry position or enhance our existing set of product, service, and solution offerings. we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, obtain financing or have sufficient cash necessary for acquisitions or successfully complete acquisitions in the future. any acquisitions that we complete may not be successful. acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrences, equity issuances, operating losses and expenses. acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; difficulties in obtaining and verifying the financial statements and other business information of acquired businesses; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of acquired companies or of ours; assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including risks relating to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) and privacy laws, including the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ); and dilution of interests of holders of our shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities. it may be difficult for us to integrate acquired operations, including those from our recent acquisitions of aquion, inc. and pelican water systems, efficiently into our business operations. any acquisitions or investments may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our business initiatives. during 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , we initiated and continued execution of certain business initiatives aimed at reducing our fixed cost structure and realigning our business. as a result, we have incurred substantial expense, including restructuring charges. we may not be able to achieve the operating efficiencies to reduce costs or realize benefits that were anticipated in connection with these initiatives. if we are unable to execute these initiatives as planned, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows . we are exposed to political, regulatory, economic, trade, and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. sales outside of the u.s. for the year ended december 31, 2019 accounted for 37% of our net sales. further, most of our businesses obtain some products, components and raw materials from non-u.s. suppliers. accordingly, our business is subject to the political, regulatory, economic, trade, and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. these risks include: changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; 6 relatively more severe economic conditions in some international markets than in the u.s.; the imposition of tariffs, duties, exchange controls or other trade restrictions; changes in tax treaties, laws or rulings that could have a material adverse impact on our effective tax rate; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through non-u.s. legal systems; the difficulty of communicating and monitoring evolving standards and directives across our product lines, services, and global facilities; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements and restrictions; the possibility of terrorist action affecting us or our operations; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations in non-u.s. labor markets; limitations on repatriation of earnings or other regionally-imposed capital requirements; the difficulty of protecting intellectual property in non-u.s. countries; and changes in and required compliance with a variety of non-u.s. laws and regulations. in 2016, the united kingdom voted in a referendum to exit the european union ( brexit ), which resulted in significant currency exchange rate fluctuations and volatility. the brexit bill was passed by the united kingdom on january 23, 2020, and it was passed by the european parliament on january 29, 2020. the united kingdom's exit from the european union became effective on january 31, 2020. given the lack of comparable precedent, the implications of brexit, or how such implications might affect our company, continue to remain unclear at this time. brexit could, among other impacts, disrupt trade and the movement of goods, services and people between the united kingdom and the european union or other countries as well as create legal and global economic uncertainty. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. we cannot assure that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business as a whole. changes in u.s. or foreign government administrative policy, including changes to existing trade agreements, could have a material adverse effect on us. as a result of changes to u.s. or foreign government administrative policy, there may be changes to existing trade agreements, like the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) and its anticipated successor agreement, the u.s.-mexico-canada agreement ( usmca ), which is still subject to approval by canada, greater restrictions on free trade generally, and significant increases in tariffs on goods imported into the u.s., particularly tariffs on products manufactured in mexico, china, or other u.s. trading countries where we have operations or manufacture or sell products, among other possible changes. if the usmca is ratified by canada, its provisions will go into effect shortly thereafter. while the usmca is somewhat similar to nafta, it contains several new compliance obligations addressing such issues as rules of origin, labor standard, certificate of origin documentation and de minimis thresholds, as well as new policies on labor and environmental standards, intellectual property protections and some digital trade provisions. we are currently analyzing the expected impact of the usmca. while certain aspects of the usmca are expected to be positive, others, including potentially higher regulatory compliance costs, may have an adverse impact on our business. it remains unclear what the u.s. administration or foreign governments, including china, will or will not do with respect to tariffs, nafta, usmca or other international trade agreements and policies. a trade war, other governmental action related to tariffs or international trade agreements, including nafta and usmca, changes in u.s. social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories and countries where we currently manufacture and sell products, and any resulting negative sentiments towards the u.s. as a result of such changes, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may experience cost and other inflation. in the past, we have experienced material cost and other inflation in a number of our businesses. we strive for productivity improvements and implement increases in selling prices to help mitigate cost increases in raw materials (especially metals and resins), energy and other costs including wages, pension, health care and insurance. we continue to implement operational initiatives in order to mitigate the impacts of this inflation and continuously reduce our costs. however, these actions may not be successful in managing our costs or increasing our productivity. continued cost inflation or failure of our initiatives to generate cost savings or improve productivity could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 7 intellectual property challenges may hinder our ability to develop, engineer and market our products. patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies, customer relationships, trademarks, trade names and brand names are important to our business. intellectual property protection, however, may not preclude competitors from developing products similar to ours or from challenging our names or products. our pending patent applications, and our pending copyright and trademark registration applications, may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. in addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. over the past few years, we have noticed an increasing tendency for participants in our markets to use challenges to intellectual property as a means to compete. patent and trademark challenges increase our costs to develop, engineer and market our products. we may need to spend significant resources monitoring, enforcing and defending our intellectual property rights, and we may or may not be able to detect infringement by third parties. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights or register new patents, our competitive position could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have significant goodwill and intangible assets and future impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on at least an annual basis, and more frequently if circumstances warrant. as of december 31, 2019 our goodwill and intangible assets were $2,598 million and represented 63% of our total assets. declines in fair market value could result in future goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges. a loss of, or material cancellation, reduction, or delay in purchases by, one or more of our largest customers could harm our business. our net sales to our largest customer represented approximately 15% of our consolidated net sales in 2019 . while we do not have any other customers that accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales in 2019 , we have other customers that are key to the success of our business. our concentration of sales to a relatively small number of larger customers makes our relationship with each of these customers important to our business. our success is dependent on retaining these customers, which requires us to successfully manage relationships and anticipate the needs of our customers in the channels in which we sell our products. our customers also may be impacted by economic conditions in the industries of those customers, which could result in reduced demand for our products. we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to retain our largest customers. in addition, some of our customers may shift their purchases to our competitors in the future. the loss of one or more of our largest customers, any material cancellation, reduction, or delay in purchases by these customers, or our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. catastrophic and other events beyond our control may disrupt operations at our manufacturing facilities and those of our suppliers, which could cause us to be unable to meet customer demands or increase our costs, or reduce customer spending. if operations at any of our manufacturing facilities or those of our suppliers were to be disrupted as a result of significant equipment failures, natural disasters, earthquakes, power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, adverse weather conditions, labor disputes, public health epidemics or other catastrophic events or events outside of our control, we may be unable to fill customer orders and otherwise meet customer demand for our products. in addition, these types of events may negatively impact residential, commercial and industrial spending in impacted regions or, depending on the severity, globally. as a result, any of such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for example, we are evaluating the potential impact of the coronavirus (covid-19) outbreak that originated in china, including evaluating the impact on our employees, customers, and global supply chain, and of governmental actions being taken to curtail the spread of the virus. the significance of the impact of the coronavirus outbreak to us remains unclear at this time; however, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. interruptions in production, in particular at our manufacturing facilities, could increase our costs and reduce our sales. any interruption in production capability could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to fill customer orders. we maintain property damage insurance that we believe to be adequate to provide for reconstruction of facilities and equipment, as well as business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from any production interruption or shutdown caused by an insured loss. however, any recovery under our insurance policies may not offset the lost sales or increased costs that may be experienced during the disruption of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. seasonality of sales and weather conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we experience seasonal demand with end-customers and end-users within each of our business segments. demand for pool equipment in the pool business, water treatment solutions in our water solutions and industrial filtration businesses, and residential water supply, infrastructure and agricultural products in the businesses within the industrial &amp; flow technologies segment follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs from april to august. while we attempt to mitigate the magnitude of the sales spike in the pool business and in the businesses within the industrial &amp; flow technologies segment by 8 employing some advance sale early buy programs (generally including extended payment terms and/or additional discounts), we cannot provide any assurance that such programs will be successful. in addition, seasonal effects in the pool business and in the businesses within the industrial &amp; flow technologies segment may vary from year to year and be impacted by weather patterns, particularly by temperature, heavy flooding and droughts. moreover, adverse weather conditions, such as cold or wet weather, may negatively impact demand for, and sales of, pool equipment in the pool business and residential water supply, commercial, infrastructure and agricultural products in the businesses within the industrial &amp; flow technologies segment. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our credit agreements and indentures contain customary financial covenants, including those that limit the amount of our debt, which may restrict the operations of our business and our ability to incur additional debt to finance acquisitions. our ability to meet the financial covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and, in the case of credit facility lenders, terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital, our credit ratings may be downgraded in the future, or our interest rates may increase, each of which could affect our financial condition, and may decrease our profitability. as of december 31, 2019 , we had $1,029.1 million of total debt outstanding. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, subject to restrictions in our debt agreements. if our cash flow from operations is less than we anticipate, if our cash requirements are more than we expect, or if we intend to finance acquisitions, we may require more financing. however, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. if we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of additional capital shares, the terms of the debt or capital shares issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our ordinary shares, particularly in the event of liquidation. the terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. if we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, the percentage ownership of existing shareholders in our company would decline. if we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, our financial condition could be adversely affected. unfavorable changes in the ratings that rating agencies assign to our debt may ultimately negatively impact our access to the debt capital markets and increase the costs we incur to borrow funds. if ratings for our debt fall below investment grade, our access to the debt capital markets may become restricted. additionally, our credit agreements generally include an increase in interest rates if the ratings for our debt are downgraded. in addition, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and term loans bear interest at a rate equal to an adjusted base rate or the london interbank offered rate ( libor ), plus, in each case, an applicable margin. the u.k. financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, has announced it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for calculation of libor after 2021. the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and term loans provides procedures for determining a replacement or alternative base rate in the event that libor is discontinued; however, any calculation of interest based upon such replacement or alternative base rate may result in higher interest rates. to the extent that our interest rates increase, our interest expense will increase, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our leverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our existing debt as well as any future debt that we may incur, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due, we may be forced to sell assets or take other disadvantageous actions, including (i) reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes or (ii) dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. the lenders who hold such debt could also accelerate amounts due, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of any of our other debt. disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect us, our customers and our suppliers by increasing funding costs or reducing availability of credit. in the normal course of our business, we may access credit markets for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, acquisitions, additions to working capital, repurchase of shares, capital expenditures and investments in our subsidiaries. although we expect to have sufficient liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets, which have occurred in the past and made financing terms for borrowers unattractive or unavailable. these factors may make it more difficult or expensive for us to 9 access credit markets if the need arises. in addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for prospective customers to commence new projects, as customers and suppliers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. disruptions in the financial markets have had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slowdown in general economic activity that may continue to adversely affect our businesses. one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our share price may fluctuate significantly. we cannot predict the prices at which our shares may trade. the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain third-party financing as needed; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; changes in earnings estimates or guidance by us or securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates or guidance; the operating and share price performance of other comparable companies; investor perception of us; overall market fluctuations; results from any material litigation or governmental investigation or environmental liabilities; natural or other environmental disasters; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our share price. risks relating to legal, regulatory and compliance matters violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, u.k. bribery act, and other anti-corruption laws outside the u.s. could have a material adverse effect on us. the fcpa, u.k. bribery act, and other anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the u.s. department of justice and the sec, increased enforcement activity by non-u.s. regulators and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. because many of our customers and end users are involved in infrastructure construction and energy production, they are often subject to increased scrutiny by regulators. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third-party intermediaries. in the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or agents have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the fcpa, we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. violations of these laws may require self-disclosure to government agencies and result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 10 our failure to satisfy international trade compliance regulations, and changes in u.s. government sanctions, could have a material adverse effect on us. our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. certain of the products we manufacture are dual use products, which are products that may have both civil and military applications, or may otherwise be involved in weapons proliferation, and are often subject to more stringent export controls. from time to time, we obtain or receive information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. our policy mandates strict compliance with u.s. and non-u.s. trade laws applicable to our products. however, even when we are in strict compliance with law and our policies, we may suffer reputational damage if certain of our products are sold through various intermediaries to entities operating in sanctioned countries. when we receive information alleging improper activity, our policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting our findings to relevant governmental authorities. nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not always protect us from actions that would violate u.s. and/or non-u.s. laws. any improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and business prospects. we are exposed to potential environmental laws, liabilities and litigation. we are subject to u.s. federal, state, local and non-u.s. laws and regulations governing our environmental practices, public and worker health and safety, and the indoor and outdoor environment. compliance with these environmental, health and safety regulations could require us to satisfy environmental liabilities, increase the cost of manufacturing our products or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. any violations of these laws by us could cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities. we are also required to comply with various environmental laws and maintain permits, some of which are subject to renewal from time to time, for many of our businesses, and we could suffer if we are unable to renew existing permits or to obtain any additional permits that we may require. compliance with environmental requirements also could require significant operating or capital expenditures or result in significant operational restrictions. we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. we have been named as defendant, target or a potentially responsible party ( prp ) in a number of environmental clean-ups relating to our current or former businesses. we have disposed of a number of businesses in recent years and in certain cases, we have retained responsibility and potential liability for certain environmental obligations. we have received claims for indemnification from certain purchasers. we may be named as a prp at other sites in the future for existing business units, as well as both divested and acquired businesses. in addition to clean-up actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. certain environmental laws impose liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. we have projects underway at several current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from our past operations or by other businesses that previously owned or used the properties. the cost of clean-up and other environmental liabilities can be difficult to accurately predict. in addition, environmental requirements change and tend to become more stringent over time. our eventual environmental clean-up costs and liabilities could exceed the amount of our current reserves. our subsidiaries are party to asbestos-related product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our subsidiaries, along with numerous other companies, are named as defendants in a substantial number of lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials, substantially all of which relate to our discontinued operations. these cases typically involve product liability claims based primarily on allegations of manufacture, sale or distribution of industrial products that either contained asbestos or were attached to or used with asbestos-containing components manufactured by third parties. each case typically names between several dozen to more than a hundred corporate defendants. historically, our subsidiaries have been identified as defendants in asbestos-related claims. our strategy has been, and continues to be, to mount a vigorous defense aimed at having unsubstantiated suits dismissed, and, only where appropriate, settling claims before trial. as of december 31, 2019 , there were approximately 730 claims pending against our subsidiaries, substantially all of which relate to our discontinued operations. we cannot predict with certainty the extent to which we will be successful in litigating or otherwise resolving lawsuits in the future, and we continue to evaluate different strategies related to asbestos claims filed against us including entity restructuring and judicial relief. unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit 11 greenhouse gas emissions. the u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) has published findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other greenhouse gases ( ghgs ) present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to the warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climate changes. based on these findings, the epa has implemented regulations that require reporting of ghg emissions, or that limit emissions of ghgs from certain mobile or stationary sources. in addition, the u.s. congress and federal and state regulatory agencies have considered other legislation and regulatory proposals to reduce emissions of ghgs, and many states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of ghgs, primarily through the development of ghg inventories, ghg permitting and/or regional ghg cap-and-trade programs. it is uncertain whether, when and in what form a federal mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program, or other state programs, may be adopted. similarly, certain countries have adopted the kyoto protocol and/or the paris accord, and these and other existing international initiatives and regulations or those under consideration could affect our international operations. to the extent our customers, particularly our energy and industrial customers, are subject to any of these or other similar proposed or newly enacted laws and regulations, we are exposed to risks that the additional costs by customers to comply with such laws and regulations could impact their ability or desire to continue to operate at similar levels in certain jurisdictions as historically seen or as currently anticipated, which could negatively impact their demand for our products and services. in addition, as customers become increasingly concerned about the environmental impact of their purchases, if we fail to keep up with changing regulations or innovate in ways that minimize the energy use of our products, customers may choose more energy efficient alternatives. these actions could also increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for raw materials and transportation. it is uncertain what laws will be enacted and therefore we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. increased information technology security threats and computer crime pose a risk to our systems, networks, products and services, and we are exposed to potential regulatory, financial and reputational risks relating to the protection of our data. we rely upon information technology systems and networks in connection with a variety of business activities, some of which are managed by third parties. as our business increasingly interfaces with employees, customers, dealers and suppliers using information technology systems and networks, we are subject to an increased risk to the secure operation of these systems and networks. our evolution into smart products, internet of things, business-to-consumer, and e-commerce subjects us to increased cyber and technology risks. the secure operation of our information technology systems and networks is critical to our business operations and strategy. information technology security threats -- from user error to attacks designed to gain unauthorized access to our systems, networks and data -- are increasing in frequency and sophistication. these threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the data we process and maintain. establishing systems and processes to address these threats may increase our costs. we have experienced data breaches, and, although we have determined such data breaches to be immaterial and such data breaches have not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, there can be no assurance of similar results in the future. should future attacks succeed in the theft of assets, exporting sensitive data or financial information or controlling sensitive systems or networks, it could expose us and our employees, customers, dealers and suppliers to the theft of assets, misuse of information or systems, compromising of confidential information, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operations disruptions. the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, such breaches in security could result in litigation, regulatory action and potential liability and the costs and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures. changes in data privacy laws and our ability to comply with them could have a material adverse effect on us. we collect and store data that is sensitive to pentair and its employees, customers, dealers and suppliers. a variety of state, national, foreign and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, security, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal and other data. many foreign data privacy regulations, including the gdpr, which became effective in the european union in 2018, are more stringent than federal regulations in the united states. within the united states, many states are considering adopting, or have already adopted privacy regulations, including, for example, the california consumer privacy act. these laws and regulations are rapidly evolving and changing, and could have an adverse effect on our operations. companies' obligations and requirements under these laws and regulations are subject to uncertainty in how they may be interpreted by courts and governmental authorities. the costs of compliance with, and the other burdens imposed by, these and other laws or regulatory actions may increase our operational costs, and/or result in interruptions or delays in the availability of systems. in the case of non-compliance of these laws, including the gdpr, regulators have the authority to levy significant fines. in addition, if there is a breach of privacy, we may be required to make notifications under data privacy regulations. the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 12 we may be negatively impacted by litigation and other claims. we are currently, and may in the future, become subject to litigation and other claims. these legal proceedings are typically claims that relate to the products or to the conduct of our business and include, without limitation, claims relating to commercial or contractual disputes with suppliers, customers or parties to acquisitions and divestitures, intellectual property matters, environmental, safety and health matters, product liability, the use or installation of our products, consumer protection matters, and employment and labor matters. the outcome of such legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty and some may be disposed of unfavorably to us. we also may not have insurance that covers such claims. while we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms, and this insurance may not provide adequate protection against potential or previously existing liabilities. in addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. further, some of our business involves the sale of our products to customers that are constructing large and complex systems, facilities or other capital projects, and while we generally try to limit our exposure liquidated damages, consequential damages and other damages in the contracts for these projects, we could be exposed to significant monetary damages and other liabilities in connection with the sale of our products for these projects for a variety of reasons. in addition, some of our businesses, customers, and dealers are subject to various laws and regulations regarding consumer protection and advertising and sales practices, and we have been named, and may be named in the future, as a defendant in litigation, some of which are or may be class action complaints, arising from alleged violation of these laws and regulations. successful claims or litigation against us for significant amounts could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our focus on consumer solutions for residential and commercial water treatment as a strategic priority exposes us to certain risks that could have a material adverse impact on our revenue and profitability as well as our reputation. as we introduce residential and commercial water solutions, we may have limited experience in markets we choose to enter, and our customers may not like our value propositions. new initiatives we test through trials and pilots may not scale or grow effectively or as we expected, which could limit our growth and negatively affect our operating results. designing, marketing and executing these solutions is subject to incremental risks. these risks include, for example: increased labor expense to fulfill our customer promises, which may be higher than the related revenue; the requirement to recruit, train and retain qualified personnel; increased risk of errors or omissions in the fulfillment of solutions or services; unpredictable extended warranty failure rates and related expenses; employees in transit using company vehicles to visit customer locations and employees being present in customer homes, which may increase our scope of liability; the potential for increased scope of liability relating to our consumer products, services and solutions and related business model; the engagement of third parties to assist with installation or servicing of our products and solutions, and the potential responsibility for the actions they take; and increased risk of non-compliance with new laws and regulations applicable to these solutions. these expanded risks increase the complexity of our business and place significant responsibility on our management, employees, operations, systems, technical expertise, financial resources, and internal controls and compliance functions. risks relating to the separation of nvent electric plc by spin-off the spin-off transaction could result in substantial tax liability to us and our shareholders if the spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction. on april 30, 2018, we completed the separation of our electrical business through the spin-off of nvent electric plc to our shareholders. the spin-off was conditioned on our receipt of opinions of tax advisors and tax rulings from taxing authorities. however, these tax opinions will not be binding on taxing authorities. accordingly, taxing authorities or the courts may reach conclusions with respect to the spin-off that are different from the conclusions reached in such opinions. moreover, such opinions were based on certain statements and representations made by us, which, if incomplete or inaccurate in any material respect, could invalidate the opinions. if the spin-off and certain related transactions were determined to be taxable, we could be subject to a substantial tax liability that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, if the spin-off were taxable, each holder of our ordinary shares who received shares of nvent electric plc in the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received. 13 we may be exposed to claims and liabilities as a result of the spin-off. in connection with the spin-off, we and nvent electric plc entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements, including a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement and an employee matters agreement. these agreements provide for the performance of services by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time after the spin-off and provide for specific indemnity and liability obligations. the indemnity rights we have against nvent under the agreements may not be sufficient to protect us. in addition, our indemnity obligations to nvent may be significant, and these risks could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation in ireland and tax residency in the u.k. we are subject to changes in law and other factors that may not allow us to maintain a worldwide effective corporate tax rate that is competitive in our industry. while we believe that we should be able to maintain a worldwide effective corporate tax rate that is competitive in our industry, we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be in the future because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. also, the tax laws of the u.s., the u.k., ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our worldwide effective corporate tax rate. these changes include the tax cuts and jobs act enacted in the u.s. in december 2017, which made significant changes to certain u.s. tax laws relevant to us, including limitations on the deductibility of certain interest expense and employee compensation, limitations on various other deductions and credits, the imposition of taxes in respect of certain cross-border payments or transfers, the imposition of taxes on certain earnings of non-u.s. entities on a current basis, and changes in the timing of the recognition of income or its character. these items and regulations and guidance implementing the tax cuts and jobs act could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods. in addition, legislative action could be taken by the u.s., the u.k., ireland or the european union that could override tax treaties or modify tax statutes or regulations upon which we expect to rely and adversely affect our effective tax rate. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding our incorporation in ireland or limiting our ability as an irish company to maintain tax residency in the u.k. and take advantage of the tax treaties among the u.s., the u.k. and ireland, we could be subject to increased taxation, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods. a change in our tax residency could have a negative effect on our future profitability, and may trigger taxes on dividends or exit charges. under current irish legislation, a company is regarded as resident for tax purposes in ireland if it is centrally managed and controlled in ireland, or, in certain circumstances, if it is incorporated in ireland. under current u.k. legislation, a company that is centrally managed and controlled in the u.k. is regarded as resident in the u.k. for taxation purposes unless it is treated as resident in another jurisdiction pursuant to any appropriate double tax treaty with the u.k. other jurisdictions may also seek to assert taxing jurisdiction over pentair. where a company is treated as tax resident under the domestic laws of both the u.k. and ireland, article 4(3) of the double tax convention between ireland and the u.k. (the residence tie-breaker ) historically provided that the company should be treated as resident only in one of those two jurisdictions if its place of effective management is situated in that jurisdiction. the organization for economic co-operation and development proposed a number of measures relating to the tax treatment of multinationals, some of which are implemented by amending double tax treaties through a multilateral instrument (the mli ). the mli has now entered into force for a number of countries, including ireland and the u.k. under the mli, the residence tie-breaker is amended so that a company will not cease being dual resident until there is a determination by the tax authorities of the two contracting states, instead of an objective application of the place of effective management test. under ireland's domestic tax residency rules, pentair should not be irish resident until january 1, 2021 (provided that there is no change in ownership and no major change in the nature or conduct of the business of the company before that date, in which case the residence tie-breaker should apply from the date of the change of ownership). accordingly, we do not expect the change to the residence tie-breaker to have effect until january 1, 2021 at the earliest. it is possible that in the future, whether as a result of a change in law or the practice of any relevant tax authority or as a result of any change in the conduct of our affairs, we could become, or be regarded as having become, resident in a jurisdiction other than the u.k. if pentair ceases to be resident in the u.k. and becomes resident in another jurisdiction, it may be subject to u.k. exit charges, and could become liable for additional tax charges in the other jurisdiction (including dividend withholding taxes or corporate income tax charges). if pentair were to be treated as resident in more than one jurisdiction, it could be subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. if, for example, pentair were considered to be a tax resident of ireland, we could become liable for irish corporation tax, and any dividends paid by it could be subject to irish dividend withholding tax. 14 irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the u.s. against us in ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the u.s. currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in ireland. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the u.s. transfers of our ordinary shares may be subject to irish stamp duty. transfers of our ordinary shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in the depository trust company ( dtc ) will not be subject to irish stamp duty. however, if you hold your ordinary shares directly rather than beneficially through dtc, any transfer of your ordinary shares could be subject to irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1 percent of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired). payment of irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. we currently intend to pay, or cause one of our affiliates to pay, stamp duty in connection with share transfers made in the ordinary course of trading by a seller who holds shares directly to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially. in other cases we may, in our absolute discretion, pay or cause one of our affiliates to pay any stamp duty. our articles of association provide that, in the event of any such payment, we (i) may seek reimbursement from the buyer, (ii) will have a lien against the shares acquired by such buyer and any dividends paid on such shares and (iii) may set-off the amount of the stamp duty against future dividends on such shares. parties to a share transfer may assume that any stamp duty arising in respect of a transaction in our shares has been paid unless one or both of such parties is otherwise notified by us. our ordinary shares, received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to irish capital acquisitions tax. irish capital acquisitions tax ( cat ) could apply to a gift or inheritance of our ordinary shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. this is because our shares will be regarded as property situated in ireland. the person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for cat. gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from cat. children have a tax-free threshold of 335,000 per lifetime in respect of taxable gifts or inheritances received from their parents for periods on or after october 9, 2019. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. periodically, we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. counterparties to all derivative contracts are major financial institutions. all instruments are entered into for other than trading purposes. the major accounting policies and utilization of these instruments is described more fully in item 8, note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 38 interest rate risk our debt portfolio as of december 31, 2019 , was comprised of debt predominantly denominated in u.s. dollars. this debt portfolio is comprised of 66% fixed-rate debt and 34% variable-rate debt. changes in interest rates have different impacts on the fixed and variable-rate portions of our debt portfolio. a change in interest rates on the fixed portion of the debt portfolio impacts the fair value, but has no impact on interest incurred or cash flows. a change in interest rates on the variable portion of the debt portfolio impacts the interest incurred and cash flows but does not impact the net financial instrument position. based on the fixed-rate debt included in our debt portfolio, as of december 31, 2019 , a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $39.8 million decrease or $43.4 million increase in fair value, respectively. based on the variable-rate debt included in our debt portfolio as of december 31, 2019 , a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $3.5 million increase or decrease in interest incurred. foreign currency risk we conduct business in various locations throughout the world and are subject to market risk due to changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar. periodically, we use derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. the functional currencies of our foreign operating locations are generally the local currency in the country of domicile. we manage these operating activities at the local level and revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are generally denominated in local currencies, thereby mitigating the risk associated with changes in foreign exchange. however, our results of operations and assets and liabilities are reported in u.s. dollars and thus will fluctuate with changes in exchange rates between such local currencies and the u.s. dollar. from time to time, we may enter into short duration foreign currency contracts to hedge foreign currency risks. as the majority of our foreign currency contracts have an original maturity date of less than one year, there is no material foreign currency risk. at december 31, 2019 and 2018 , we had outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts with gross notional u.s. dollar equivalent amounts of $17.0 million and $47.6 million , respectively. changes in the fair value of all derivatives are recognized immediately in income unless the derivative qualifies as a hedge of future cash flows. gains and losses related to a hedge are deferred and recorded in the consolidated balance sheets as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss and subsequently recognized in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income when the hedged item affects earnings. at december 31, 2019, we had outstanding cross currency swap agreements with a combined notional amount of $777.0 million . the cross currency swap agreements are accounted for as either cash flow hedges to hedge foreign currency fluctuations on certain intercompany debt, or as net investment hedges to manage our exposure to fluctuations in the euro-u.s. dollar exchange rate. the currency risk related to the cross currency swap agreements is measured by estimating the potential impact of a 10% change in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro would result in a $57.9 million net increase in accumulated other comprehensive loss . conversely, a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro would result in a $55.2 million net decrease in accumulated other comprehensive loss . however, these increases and decreases in other comprehensive income would be offset by decreases or increases in the hedged items on our balance sheet. 39risk factors 8 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risk factors and warnings before making an investment decision. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. you should also understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and should not consider the following list to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. if any of the risks described below actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in that case, the price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. you should also refer to other information set forth in this document. general economic conditions, including difficult credit and residential construction markets, affect demand for our products. we compete around the world in various geographic regions and product markets. among these, the most significant are global industrial and commercial markets (for both the water and technical products groups) and residential markets (for the water group). the global recession adversely affected the robustness of our markets throughout 2009. important factors that impact our businesses include the overall strength of the economy and our customers confidence in the economy; industrial and governmental capital spending; the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets; unemployment rates; availability of consumer and commercial financing for our customers and end-users; and interest rates. new construction for residential housing and home improvement activity fell in each of the past three years, and particularly in 2009, which reduced revenue in each of the businesses within our water group over this period. we believe that weakness in the residential housing market and the recent dramatic slowdown in our industrial and commercial markets will likely continue to affect our revenues and margins into 2010. any continuing weakness in these markets beyond 2009 will negatively affect our sales and financial performance in future periods. continuing market weakness is likely to limit recovery in our revenues and profitability from pre-recessionary levels. over the past four years, our organic growth has been generated in part from expanding international sales, entering new distribution channels, price increases and introducing new products. to grow more rapidly than our end markets, we would have to continue to expand our geographic reach, further diversify our distribution channels, continue to introduce new products, and increase sales of existing products to our customer base. difficult economic and competitive factors in late 2008 and throughout 2009 adversely affected our ability to grow our revenues over this period. these economic conditions materially and adversely impacted our financial performance in 2009; we did not meet our projected revenue growth or earnings targets for the year 2009. we believe that these market weaknesses have started to stabilize in many of our end markets, but we can not assure you that these markets will continue to improve nor that we will be able to increase revenues and profitability to match our earlier financial performance. rather than focus our sales efforts primarily on broad-based revenue growth, we have chosen to limit our growth initiatives to specific end markets and geographies. we cannot assure you that these growth initiatives will be sufficient to offset revenue declines in other markets. our businesses operate in highly competitive markets, so we may be forced to cut prices or to incur additional costs. our businesses generally face substantial competition in each of their respective markets. competition may force us to cut prices or to incur additional costs to remain competitive. we compete on the basis of product design, quality, availability, performance, customer service and price. present or future competitors may have greater financial, technical or other resources which could put us at a disadvantage in the affected business or businesses. we cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. 8 table of contents material cost and other inflation have adversely affected and could continue to affect our results of operations. in previous years, we have experienced material cost and other inflation in a number of our businesses. we are striving for greater productivity improvements and implementing selective increases in selling prices to help mitigate cost increases in raw materials (especially metals and resins), energy and other costs such as pension, health care and insurance. while these inflationary pressures dramatically weakened in late 2008 and early 2009 as a result of general economic conditions, the recent reversal of material cost inflation may not be sustainable once the economy begins to strengthen. we also are continuing to implement our excellence in operations initiatives in order to continuously reduce our costs. we cannot assure you, however, that these actions will be successful in managing our costs or increasing our productivity. continued cost inflation or failure of our initiatives to generate cost savings or improve productivity would likely negatively impact our results of operations. seasonality of sales and weather conditions may adversely affect our financial results. we experience seasonal demand in a number of markets within our water group. end-user demand for pool equipment in our primary markets follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs from april to august. the magnitude of the sales spike is partially mitigated by employing some advance sale or early buy programs (generally including extended payment terms and/or additional discounts). demand for residential and agricultural water systems is also impacted by weather patterns, particularly by heavy flooding and droughts. we cannot assure you that seasonality and weather conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. intellectual property challenges may hinder product development and marketing. patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies, customer relationships, trade marks and trade names are important to our business. intellectual property protection, however, may not preclude competitors from developing products similar to ours or from challenging our names or products. over the past few years, we have noticed an increasing tendency for participants in our markets to use conflicts over and challenges to intellectual property as a means to compete. patent and trademark challenges increase our costs to develop, engineer and market our products, and increased costs may hinder our product development and marketing. our results of operations may be negatively impacted by litigation. our business exposes us to potential litigation, such as product liability claims relating to the design, manufacture, and sale of our products. while we have an active product safety program, and we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms or that this insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. in addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. a series of successful claims against us for significant amounts could materially and adversely affect our product reputation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. reductions in our acquisition activity will likely slow our revenue growth or otherwise adversely affect our financial performance. over the past four years, much of our growth has resulted from acquisitions of businesses within our current business segments. while we intend to continue to evaluate acquisitions in these segments, given the current financial and economic environment, we are uncertain whether we will be able to make major acquisitions until business conditions improve further. we cannot assure you that we would be able to continue to grow our revenue or to limit revenue declines without making acquisitions. acquisitions we may undertake could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, particularly in the fiscal quarters immediately following the acquisitions, while we attempt to integrate operations of the acquired businesses into our operations. once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve the levels of profitability originally anticipated. 9 table of contents the availability and cost of capital could have a negative impact on our financial performance. our plans to vigorously compete in our chosen markets will require additional capital for future acquisitions, capital expenditures, growth of working capital, and continued international and regional expansion. in the past, we have financed growth of our businesses primarily through cash from operations and debt financing. while we refinanced our primary credit agreements in the second quarter of 2007 on what we believe to be favorable terms, future acquisitions or other uses of funds may require us to expand our debt financing resources or to issue equity securities. our financial results may be adversely affected if new financing is not available on favorable terms or if interest costs under our debt financings are higher than the income generated by acquisitions or other internal growth. in addition, future share issuances could be dilutive to your equity investment if we sell shares into the market or issue additional stock as consideration in any acquisition. we cannot assure you that we will be able to issue equity securities or obtain future debt financing at favorable terms. without sufficient financing, we will not be able to pursue our targeted growth strategy, and our acquisition program, which will limit our revenue growth and future financial performance. we are exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. sales outside of the united states, including export sales from our domestic businesses, accounted for approximately 34% of our net sales in 2009, down from 35% in 2008. further, most of our businesses obtain some products, components and raw materials from foreign suppliers. accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. these risks include: changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; relatively more severe economic conditions in some international markets than in the united states; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; the possibility of terrorist action against us or our operations; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other trade restrictions; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations in non-u.s. labor markets; changes in tax laws or rulings could have an adverse impact on our effective tax rate; the difficulty of protecting intellectual property in foreign countries; and required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations. our business success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. we cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business as a whole. our international operations are subject to foreign market and currency fluctuation risks. we expect the percentage of our sales outside of north america to increase in the future. over the past few years, the economies of some of the foreign countries in which we do business have had slower growth than the u.s. economy. the european union currently accounts for the majority of our foreign sales and income, in which our most significant european market is germany; each market area is currently experiencing similar economic difficulties to those in the united states, and sales in those markets slowed significantly through 2009. in addition, we have a significant and growing business in the asia-pacific area, but the economic conditions in countries in this region are subject to different growth expectations, market weaknesses and business practices. we cannot predict how changing market conditions in these regions will impact our financial results. 10 table of contents we are also exposed to the risk of fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates which may affect our financial results. in 2009, the weakness of the us dollar slightly benefited our financial results in foreign jurisdictions. we are uncertain whether weakness in the us dollar will continue, and if so, the extent to which it may hurt our financial results on a comparative basis. in addition, we source certain products, components and raw materials throughout the world, the import of which into the united states has raised the cost of these goods in us dollars and has impacted the results of our domestic businesses as well. we have significant goodwill and intangible assets, and future impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material negative impact on our financial results. we test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis as required by the accounting guidance, by comparing the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units to their respective carrying values on our balance sheet. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment annually as of the first day of our third quarter using management operating budget and internal five-year forecast to estimate expected future cash flows. projecting discounted future cash flows requires us to make significant estimates regarding future revenues and expenses, projected capital expenditures, changes in working capital and the appropriate discount rate. the projections also take into account several factors including current and estimated economic trends and outlook, costs of raw materials, and consideration of our market capitalization in comparison to the estimated fair values of our reporting units. during the fourth quarter of 2009, we completed our annual impairment test for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and recorded an impairment charge of $11.3 million to write-down certain trade name intangible assets to their current estimated fair value. at december 31, 2009 our goodwill and intangible assets were approximately $2,575.2 million, and represented approximately 65.8% of our total assets. if we experience further declines in sales and operating profit or do not meet our operating forecasts, we may be subject to future impairments. additionally, changes in assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses, increases in the discount rate used to determine the discounted cash flows of our businesses, or significant declines in our stock price could be indicators of impairment losses. because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we are exposed to potential environmental and other laws, liabilities and litigation. we are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing our environmental practices, public and worker health and safety and the indoor and outdoor environment. compliance with these environmental, health and safety regulations could require us to satisfy environmental liabilities, increase the cost of manufacturing our products or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. any violations of these laws by us could cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities that could harm our operating results and cause our business to suffer. we are also required to comply with various environmental laws and maintain permits, some of which are subject to discretionary renewal from time to time, for many of our businesses, and we could suffer if we are unable to renew existing permits or to obtain any additional permits that we may require. we have been named as defendants, targets, or potentially responsible parties ( prp ) in a number of environmental clean-ups relating to our current or former business units. we have disposed of a number of businesses in recent years and, in certain cases, we have retained responsibility and potential liability for certain environmental obligations. we have received claims for indemnification from certain purchasers. we may be named as a prp at other sites in the future for existing business units, as well as both divested and acquired businesses. we have also made claims against third parties for indemnification against potential liabilities for environmental remediations or other obligations. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining indemnity or reimbursement for such costs. we cannot ensure you that environmental requirements will not change or become more stringent over time or that our eventual environmental clean-up costs and liabilities will not exceed the amount of our current reserves. 11 table of contents we may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. there are a number of pending legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions. for example, in june 2009 the u.s. house of representatives passed the american clean energy and security act that would phase-in significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions if enacted into law. the u.s. senate is considering a different bill, and it is uncertain whether, when and in what form a federal mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program may be adopted. similarly, certain countries have adopted the kyoto protocol, and this and other international initiatives under consideration could affect our international operations. these actions could increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for raw materials and transportation. because it is uncertain what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. provisions of our restated articles of incorporation, bylaws and minnesota law could deter takeover attempts. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, under minnesota law, and in our shareholder rights plan could prevent or delay transactions that our shareholders may favor. our restated articles of incorporation and bylaws include provisions relating to the election, appointment and removal of directors, as well as shareholder notice and shareholder voting requirements which could delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or other change of control. in addition, our common share purchase rights could cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us, which could deter some acquirers from making takeover proposals or tender offers. also, the minnesota business corporations act contains control share acquisition and business combination provisions which could delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or other change of control. our shareholders might view any such transaction as being in their best interests since the transaction could result in a higher stock price than the current market price for our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of changes in interest rates. counterparties to all derivative contracts are major financial institutions. all instruments are entered into for other than trading purposes. the major accounting policies and utilization of these instruments is described more fully in item 8, note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. failure of one or more of our swap counterparties would result in the loss of any benefit to us of the swap agreement. in this case, we would continue to be obligated to pay the variable interest payments per the underlying debt agreements which are at variable interest rates of 3 month libor plus .50% for $105 million of debt and 3 month libor plus .60% for $100 million of debt. additionally, failure of one or all of our swap counterparties would not eliminate our obligation to continue to make payments under our existing swap agreements if we continue to be in a net pay position. interest rate risk our debt portfolio, excluding impact of swap agreements, as of december 31, 2009 was comprised of debt predominantly denominated in u.s. dollars. this debt portfolio is comprised of 50% fixed-rate debt and 50% 38 table of contents variable-rate debt, not considering the effects of our interest rate swaps. taking into account the variable to fixed rate swap agreements we entered with an effective date of april 2006 and august 2007, our debt portfolio is comprised of 75% fixed-rate debt and 25% variable-rate debt. changes in interest rates have different impacts on the fixed and variable-rate portions of our debt portfolio. a change in interest rates on the fixed portion of the debt portfolio impacts the fair value but has no impact on interest incurred or cash flows. a change in interest rates on the variable portion of the debt portfolio impacts the interest incurred and cash flows but does not impact the net financial instrument position. based on the fixed-rate debt included in our debt portfolio, as of december 31, 2009, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $20.0 million increase or decrease in fair value. based on the variable-rate debt included in our debt portfolio, including the interest rate swap agreements, as of december 31, 2009, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $2.0 million increase or decrease in interest incurred. foreign currency risk we conduct business in various locations throughout the world and are subject to market risk due to changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar. we generally do not use derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. the functional currencies of our foreign operating locations are the local currency in the country of domicile. we manage these operating activities at the local level and revenues, costs, assets, and liabilities are generally denominated in local currencies, thereby mitigating the risk associated with changes in foreign exchange. however, our results of operations and assets and liabilities are reported in u.s. dollars and thus will fluctuate with changes in exchange rates between such local currencies and the u.s. dollar. 39 table of contentsrisk factors 7 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risk factors and warnings before making an investment decision. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. you should also understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and should not consider the following list to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. if any of the risks described below actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in that case, the price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. you should also refer to other information set forth in this document. general economic conditions, including difficult credit and residential construction markets, affect demand for our products. we compete around the world in various geographic regions and product markets. among these, the most significant are global industrial markets (for both the technical products and water groups) and residential markets (for the water group). important factors for our businesses include the overall strength of the economy and our customers confidence in the economy; industrial and governmental capital spending; the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets; unemployment rates; availability of consumer and commercial financing for our customers and end-users; and interest rates. new construction for residential 7 table of contents housing and home improvement activity fell in 2007, 2008 and 2009, which reduced revenue growth in the residential businesses within our water group. while we saw some stabilization in 2010, we believe that weakness in this market could negatively impact our revenues and margins in future periods. further, while we attempt to minimize our exposure to economic or market fluctuations by serving a balanced mix of end markets and geographic regions, we cannot assure you that a significant or sustained downturn in a specific end market or geographic region would not have a material adverse effect on us. our inability to sustain organic growth could adversely affect our financial performance. over the past five years, our organic growth has been generated in part from expanding international sales, entering new distribution channels, introducing new products and price increases. to grow more rapidly than our end markets, we would have to continue to expand our geographic reach, further diversify our distribution channels, continue to introduce new products and increase sales of existing products to our customer base. difficult economic and competitive factors materially and adversely impacted our financial performance in 2009. these conditions started to improve in many of our end markets in 2010, but we cannot assure you that these markets will continue to improve nor that we will be able to increase revenues and profitability to match our earlier financial performance. we have chosen to focus our growth initiatives in specific end markets and geographies. we cannot assure you that these growth initiatives will be sufficient to offset revenue declines in other markets. our businesses operate in highly competitive markets, so we may be forced to cut prices or to incur additional costs. our businesses generally face substantial competition in each of their respective markets. competition may force us to cut prices or to incur additional costs to remain competitive. we compete on the basis of product design, quality, availability, performance, customer service and price. present or future competitors may have greater financial, technical or other resources which could put us at a disadvantage in the affected business or businesses. we cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. material cost and other inflation have adversely affected and could continue to affect our results of operations. in the past, we have experienced material cost and other inflation in a number of our businesses. we strive for productivity improvements and implement increases in selling prices to help mitigate cost increases in raw materials (especially metals and resins), energy and other costs such as pension, health care and insurance. we continue to implement our excellence in operations initiatives in order to mitigate the impacts of this inflation and continuously reduce our costs. we cannot assure you, however, that these actions will be successful in managing our costs or increasing our productivity. continued cost inflation or failure of our initiatives to generate cost savings or improve productivity would likely negatively impact our results of operations. seasonality of sales and weather conditions may adversely affect our financial results. we experience seasonal demand in a number of markets within our water group. end-user demand for pool equipment in our primary markets follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs from april to august. the magnitude of the sales increase is partially mitigated by employing some advance sale or early buy programs (generally including extended payment terms and/or additional discounts). demand for residential and agricultural water systems is also impacted by weather patterns, particularly by heavy flooding and droughts. we cannot assure you that seasonality and weather conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. intellectual property challenges may hinder product development and marketing. patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies, customer relationships, trade marks, trade names and brand names are important to our business. intellectual property protection, however, may not preclude 8 table of contents competitors from developing products similar to ours or from challenging our names or products. over the past few years, we have noticed an increasing tendency for participants in our markets to use conflicts over and challenges to intellectual property as a means to compete. patent and trademark challenges increase our costs to develop, engineer and market our products. our results of operations may be negatively impacted by litigation. our businesses expose us to potential litigation, such as product liability claims relating to the design, manufacture and sale of our products. while we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms or that this insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. in addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. a series of successful claims against us for significant amounts could materially and adversely affect our product reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to expand through acquisitions and acquisitions we complete may adversely affect our financial performance. we intend to continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions primarily in our current business segments, though we may consider acquisitions outside of these segments as well. our ability to expand through acquisitions is subject to various risks, including the following: higher acquisition prices; lack of suitable acquisition candidates in targeted product or market areas; increased competition for acquisitions, especially in the water industry; inability to integrate acquired businesses effectively or profitably; and inability to achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits from acquisitions. acquisitions we may undertake could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, particularly in the fiscal quarters immediately following the acquisitions, while we attempt to integrate operations of the acquired businesses into our operations. once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve the levels of financial performance originally anticipated. the availability and cost of capital could have a negative impact on our financial performance. our plans to vigorously compete in our chosen markets will require additional capital for future acquisitions, capital expenditures, growth of working capital and continued international and regional expansion. in the past, we have financed growth of our businesses primarily through cash from operations and debt financing. while we refinanced our primary credit agreements in 2007 on what we believe to be favorable terms, future acquisitions or other uses of funds may require us to expand our debt financing resources or to issue equity securities. our financial results may be adversely affected if new financing is not available on favorable terms or if interest costs under our debt financings are higher than the income generated by acquisitions or other internal growth. in addition, future share issuances could be dilutive to your equity investment if we sell shares into the market or issue additional stock as consideration in any acquisition. we cannot assure you that we will be able to issue equity securities or obtain future debt financing at favorable terms. without sufficient financing, we will not be able to pursue our targeted growth strategy and our acquisition program, which may limit our revenue growth and future financial performance. we are exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. sales outside of the united states, including export sales from our domestic businesses, accounted for approximately 34% of our net sales in both 2010 and 2009. further, most of our businesses obtain some 9 table of contents products, components and raw materials from foreign suppliers. accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. these risks include: changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; relatively more severe economic conditions in some international markets than in the united states; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; the possibility of terrorist action against us or our operations; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other trade restrictions; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations in non-u.s. labor markets; changes in tax laws or rulings could have an adverse impact on our effective tax rate; the difficulty of protecting intellectual property in foreign countries; and required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations. our business success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. we cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business as a whole. our international operations are subject to foreign market and currency fluctuation risks. we expect the percentage of our sales outside of the united states to increase in the future. over the past few years, the economies of some of the foreign countries in which we do business have had slower growth than the u.s. economy. the european union currently accounts for the majority of our foreign sales and income, in which our most significant european market is germany. in addition, we have a significant and growing business in the asia-pacific region, but the economic conditions in countries in this region are subject to different growth expectations, market weaknesses and business practices. we cannot predict how changing market conditions in these regions will impact our financial results. we are also exposed to the risk of fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates which may affect our financial results as we manufacture and source certain products, components and raw materials throughout the world. we have significant goodwill and intangible assets and future impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material negative impact on our financial results. we test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, by comparing the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units to their respective carrying values on their balance sheets. at december 31, 2010 our goodwill and intangible assets were approximately $2,519.6 million and represented approximately 63.4% of our total assets. long-term declines in projected future cash flows could result in future goodwill and intangible asset impairments. because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we are exposed to potential environmental and other laws, liabilities and litigation. we are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing our environmental practices, public and worker health and safety and the indoor and outdoor environment. compliance with these environmental, health and safety regulations could require us to satisfy environmental liabilities, increase the cost of manufacturing our products or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. any violations of these laws by us could cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities that could 10 table of contents harm our operating results and cause our business to suffer. we are also required to comply with various environmental laws and maintain permits, some of which are subject to discretionary renewal from time to time, for many of our businesses and we could suffer if we are unable to renew existing permits or to obtain any additional permits that we may require. we have been named as defendants, targets or potentially responsible parties ( prp ) in a number of environmental clean-ups relating to our current or former business units. we have disposed of a number of businesses in recent years and in certain cases, we have retained responsibility and potential liability for certain environmental obligations. we have received claims for indemnification from certain purchasers. we may be named as a prp at other sites in the future for existing business units, as well as both divested and acquired businesses. we cannot ensure you that environmental requirements will not change or become more stringent over time or that our eventual environmental clean-up costs and liabilities will not exceed the amount of our current reserves. we are exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. the u.s. congress and federal and state regulatory agencies have been considering legislation and regulatory proposals that would regulate and limit greenhouse gas emissions. it is uncertain whether, when and in what form a federal mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program may be adopted. similarly, certain countries have adopted the kyoto protocol and this and other international initiatives under consideration could affect our international operations. these actions could increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for raw materials and transportation. because it is uncertain what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. provisions of our restated articles of incorporation, bylaws and minnesota law could deter takeover attempts. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, under minnesota law and in our shareholder rights plan could prevent or delay transactions that our shareholders may favor. our restated articles of incorporation and bylaws include provisions relating to the election, appointment and removal of directors, as well as shareholder notice and shareholder voting requirements which could delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or other change of control. in addition, our common share purchase rights could cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us, which could deter some acquirers from making takeover proposals or tender offers. also, the minnesota business corporations act contains control share acquisition and business combination provisions which could delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or other change of control. our shareholders might view any such transaction as being in their best interests since the transaction could result in a higher stock price than the current market price for our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of changes in interest rates. counterparties to all derivative contracts are major financial institutions. all instruments are entered into for other than trading purposes. the major accounting policies and utilization of these instruments is described more fully in item 8, note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 35 table of contents failure of one or more of our swap counterparties would result in the loss of any benefit to us of the swap agreement. in this case, we would continue to be obligated to pay the variable interest payments per the underlying debt agreements which are at variable interest rates of 3 month libor plus .50% for $105 million of debt and 3 month libor plus .60% for $100 million of debt. additionally, failure of one or all of our swap counterparties would not eliminate our obligation to continue to make payments under our existing swap agreements if we continue to be in a net pay position. interest rate risk our debt portfolio, excluding impact of swap agreements, as of december 31, 2010, was comprised of debt predominantly denominated in u.s. dollars. this debt portfolio is comprised of 56% fixed-rate debt and 44% variable-rate debt, not considering the effects of our interest rate swaps. taking into account the variable to fixed-rate swap agreements we entered into with an effective date of april 2006 and august 2007, our debt portfolio is comprised of 85% fixed-rate debt and 15% variable-rate debt. changes in interest rates have different impacts on the fixed and variable-rate portions of our debt portfolio. a change in interest rates on the fixed portion of the debt portfolio impacts the fair value but has no impact on interest incurred or cash flows. a change in interest rates on the variable portion of the debt portfolio impacts the interest incurred and cash flows but does not impact the net financial instrument position. based on the fixed-rate debt included in our debt portfolio, as of december 31, 2010, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $20.0 million increase or decrease in fair value. based on the variable-rate debt included in our debt portfolio, including the interest rate swap agreements, as of december 31, 2010, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $1.0 million increase or decrease in interest incurred. foreign currency risk we conduct business in various locations throughout the world and are subject to market risk due to changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar. we generally do not use derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. the functional currencies of our foreign operating locations are the local currency in the country of domicile. we manage these operating activities at the local level and revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are generally denominated in local currencies, thereby mitigating the risk associated with changes in foreign exchange. however, our results of operations and assets and liabilities are reported in u.s. dollars and thus will fluctuate with changes in exchange rates between such local currencies and the u.s. dollar. from time to time, we may enter in to short duration foreign currency contracts to hedge foreign currency risk on intercompany transactions. 36 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risk factors and warnings before making an investment decision. if any of the risks described below actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in that case, the price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. you should also refer to the other information set forth in this document. demand for our products will be affected by general economic conditions. demand for our residential and commercial products is influenced by many economic conditions, including but not limited to new construction activity and the level of repair and remodeling activity. the level of new construction and repair and remodeling activity is affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as the overall strength of the economy (including confidence in the economy by our customers), the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets, institutional building activity, the age of existing housing stock, unemployment rates, availability of consumer financing and interest rates. any declines in new housing or commercial construction starts or demand for replacement building and home improvement products may adversely impact us, and there can be no assurance that any such adverse effects would not be material and would not continue for an indeterminate period of time. further, while we attempt to minimize our exposure to economic or market fluctuations by serving a balanced mix of end markets and geographic regions, we cannot assure you that a significant or sustained downturn in a specific end market or geographic region would not have a material adverse effect on us. our businesses operate in highly competitive markets, so we may be forced to cut prices or to incur additional costs. our businesses generally face substantial competition in each of their respective markets. competition may force us to cut prices or to incur additional costs to remain competitive. we compete on the basis of product design, quality, availability, performance, customer service and price. present or future competitors may have greater financial, technical or other resources which could put us at a disadvantage in the affected business or businesses. we cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our inability to sustain consistent organic growth could adversely affect our financial performance. in 2005, our organic growth was generated in part from expanding international sales, entering new distribution channels, and introducing new products. to grow more rapidly than our end markets, we will have to continue to expand our geographic reach, further diversify our distribution channels, continue to introduce new products, and increase sales of existing products to our customer base. we may not be able to successfully meet those challenges, which could adversely affect our ability to sustain consistent organic growth. if we are unable to sustain consistent organic growth, we will be less likely to meet our stated revenue growth targets, which could adversely affect our net income growth, and, in turn, the market price of our stock. our inability to complete or successfully complete and integrate acquisitions could adversely affect our financial performance. a significant percentage of our net sales growth in 2005 and 2004 was generated as a result of acquisitions completed during those periods, including our acquisition of wicor and everpure. we may not be able to sustain this level of growth from acquisition activity in the future. we intend to continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions primarily in our current business segments, and we may consider acquisitions outside of these segments as well. our ability to expand through acquisitions is subject to various risks, including the following: increased competition for acquisitions, especially in the water industry; higher acquisition prices; 8 table of contents lack of suitable acquisition candidates in targeted product or market areas; diversion of management time and attention to acquisitions and acquired businesses; inability to integrate acquired businesses effectively or profitably; and inability to achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits from acquisitions. acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, particularly in the fiscal quarters immediately following the acquisitions, while we attempt to integrate operations of the acquired businesses into our operations. once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve the levels of profitability originally anticipated. material cost inflation could adversely affect our results of operations. we are experiencing material cost inflation in a number of our businesses. we are striving for greater productivity improvements and implementing selective increases in selling prices to help mitigate cost increases in base materials such as steel, resins, ocean freight and fuel, health care and insurance. we also are continuing to implement our excellence in operations initiatives in order to continuously reduce our costs. we cannot assure you, however, that these actions will be successful to manage our costs or increase our productivity. continued cost inflation or failure of our initiatives to generate cost savings or improve productivity may negatively impact our results of operations. seasonality of sales and weather conditions may adversely affect our financial results. we experience seasonal demand in a number of markets within our water group. end-user demand for pool/spa equipment follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs from march to july. the magnitude of the sales spike is partially mitigated by effective use of the distribution channel by employing advance sales programs (generally including extended payment terms and/or additional discounts). demand for residential and agricultural water systems is also impacted by water patterns particularly related to heavy flooding and droughts. we cannot assure you that seasonality and weather conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. intellectual property challenges may hinder product development and marketing. patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies, customer relationships, trade marks, trade names, and brand names are important to our business. intellectual property protection, however, may not preclude competitors from developing products similar to ours or from challenging our names or products. over the past few years, we have noticed an increasing tendency for participants in our markets to use conflicts over and challenges to intellectual property as a means to compete. patent and trademark challenges increase our costs to develop, engineer and market our products. our results of operations may be negatively impacted by litigation. our business exposes us to potential litigation, especially product liability suits that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and sale of our products. while we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we cannot be assured that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms or that this insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. in addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. a series of successful claims against us could materially and adversely affect our product reputation and our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we may be required to make payments in respect of businesses that we have sold. we have sold a number of businesses over the last ten years, including the sale of our former tools group to bdk in october 2004. in this and other dispositions, we typically agree to indemnify the buyers with respect to certain matters relating to the businesses that we have sold, and we may from time to time be required to make payments to the buyers under those indemnities. to the extent we are required to make any 9 table of contents such payments in the future, those payments could be substantial, which could require us to borrow additional amounts at unfavorable borrowing terms and cause a significant decrease in our liquidity, both of which could severely harm our business. the availability and cost of capital could have a negative impact on our continued growth. our plans to continue our growth in our chosen markets will require additional capital for future acquisitions, capital expenditures for existing businesses, growth of working capital, and continued international and regional expansion. in the past, we have financed our growth primarily through debt financings. any significant future acquisitions will require us to expand our debt financing resources or to issue equity securities. our financial results may be adversely affected if interest costs under our debt financings are higher than the income generated by acquisitions or other internal growth. in addition, future acquisitions could be dilutive to your equity investment if we issue additional stock to fund acquisitions. we cannot be assured that we will be able to issue equity securities or to obtain future debt financing at favorable terms. without sufficient financing, we will not be able to pursue our growth strategy, which will limit our growth and revenues in the future. our international operations are subject to foreign market and currency fluctuation risks. we expect the percentage of sales outside of north america to increase in the future. over the past few years, the economies of many of the foreign countries in which we do business have had slower growth than the u.s. economy. the european union currently accounts for the majority of our foreign sales and income. our most significant european market is germany, where the capital goods market has been very slow. we cannot predict how changing european market conditions will impact our financial results. we are also exposed to the risk of fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates which may affect our financial results. as of december 31, 2005, we held immaterial positions in foreign exchange-forward contracts. we are exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. sales outside of north america, including export sales from north american businesses, accounted for approximately 22% of our net sales in 2005. further, certain of our businesses obtain raw materials and finished goods from foreign suppliers. accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. these risks include: the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the u.s. and the imposition of withholding requirements on foreign earnings; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of foreign labor regulations; the protection of intellectual property in foreign countries may be more difficult; required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; and changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets. our business success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. we cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business as a whole. 10 table of contents we are exposed to potential environmental liabilities and litigation. compliance with environmental regulations could require us to discharge environmental liabilities, increase the cost of manufacturing our products or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing public and worker health and safety and the indoor and outdoor environment. any violations of these laws by us could cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities that could harm our operating results and cause our business to suffer. we are also required to comply with various environmental laws and maintain permits, some of which are subject to discretionary renewal from time to time, for many of our businesses, and we could suffer if we are unable to renew existing permits or to obtain any additional permits that we may require. we have been named as defendants, targets, or potentially responsible parties (prps) in a number of environmental clean-ups relating to our current or former business units. we have disposed of a number of businesses over the last ten years and, in certain cases, we have retained responsibility and potential liability for certain environmental obligations. we have received claims for indemnification from certain purchasers. we may be named as a prp at other sites in the future for existing business units, as well as both divested and acquired businesses. we cannot ensure that environmental requirements will not change or become more stringent over time or that our eventual environmental clean-up costs and liabilities will not exceed the amount of our current reserves. provisions of our restated articles of incorporation, bylaws and minnesota law could deter takeover attempts. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, under minnesota law and in our shareholder rights plan could prevent or delay transactions that our shareholders may favor. our restated articles of incorporation and bylaws include provisions relating to the election, appointment and removal of directors, as well as shareholder notice and shareholder voting requirements which could delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or other change of control. in addition, our common share purchase rights could cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us, which could deter some acquirers from making takeover proposals or tender offers. also, the minnesota business corporations act contains control share acquisition and business combination provisions which could delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or other change of control. our shareholders might view any such a transaction as being in their best interests since the transaction could result in a higher stock price than the current market price for our common stock.risk factors 8 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risk factors and warnings before making an investment decision. if any of the risks described below actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in that case, the price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. you should also refer to other information set forth in this document. demand for our products will be affected by general economic conditions. we compete globally in varied markets. among these, the most significant are north american industrial and commercial markets (for both the water and technical products groups) and the north american residential market (for the water group). economic conditions in the united states affect the robustness of our north american markets; important factors include the overall strength of the economy and our customers confidence in the economy; industrial and municipal capital spending; the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets; the age of existing housing stock; unemployment rates; availability of consumer financing; and, interest rates. new construction for residential housing and home improvement activity fell dramatically in 2006, which reduced revenue growth in our water group, especially in the pool and spa and pump markets we address. we cannot give any assurance that we will not continue to encounter 8 weakness in these markets. further, while we attempt to minimize our exposure to economic or market fluctuations by serving a balanced mix of end markets and geographic regions, we cannot assure you that a significant or sustained downturn in a specific end market or geographic region would not have a material adverse effect on us. our businesses operate in highly competitive markets, so we may be forced to cut prices or to incur additional costs. our businesses generally face substantial competition in each of their respective markets. competition may force us to cut prices or to incur additional costs to remain competitive. we compete on the basis of product design, quality, availability, performance, customer service and price. present or future competitors may have greater financial, technical or other resources which could put us at a disadvantage in the affected business or businesses. we cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. our inability to sustain consistent organic growth could adversely affect our financial performance. in 2006 and 2005, our organic growth was generated in part from expanding international sales, entering new distribution channels, and introducing new products. to grow more rapidly than our end markets, we will have to continue to expand our geographic reach, further diversify our distribution channels, continue to introduce new products, and increase sales of existing products to our customer base. we may not be able to successfully meet those challenges, which could adversely affect our ability to sustain consistent organic growth. if we are unable to sustain consistent organic growth, we will be less likely to meet our stated revenue growth targets, which together with any resulting impact on our net income growth, would likely adversely affect the market price of our stock. our inability to complete or successfully complete and integrate acquisitions could adversely affect our financial performance. a significant percentage of our net sales growth in 2006 and 2005 was generated as a result of acquisitions completed in 2004 or subsequent periods, including our acquisition of wicor and the thermal businesses. we may not be able to sustain this level of growth from acquisition activity in the future. we intend to continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions primarily in our current business segments, and we may consider acquisitions outside of these segments as well. our ability to expand through acquisitions is subject to various risks, including the following: increased competition for acquisitions, especially in the water industry; higher acquisition prices; lack of suitable acquisition candidates in targeted product or market areas; diversion of management time and attention to acquisitions and acquired businesses; inability to integrate acquired businesses effectively or profitably; and inability to achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits from acquisitions. acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, particularly in the fiscal quarters immediately following the acquisitions, while we attempt to integrate operations of the acquired businesses into our operations. once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve the levels of profitability originally anticipated. material cost and other inflation could adversely affect our results of operations. we are experiencing material cost and other inflation in a number of our businesses. we are striving for greater productivity improvements and implementing selective increases in selling prices to help mitigate cost increases in base materials such as metals and other costs such as pension, health care and insurance. we also 9 are continuing to implement our excellence in operations initiatives in order to continuously reduce our costs. we cannot assure you, however, that these actions will be successful in managing our costs or increasing our productivity. continued cost inflation or failure of our initiatives to generate cost savings or improve productivity may negatively impact our results of operations. seasonality of sales and weather conditions may adversely affect our financial results. we experience seasonal demand in a number of markets within our water group. end-user demand for pool equipment follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs from april to august. the magnitude of the sales spike is partially mitigated by employing some advance sales early buy programs (generally including extended payment terms and/or additional discounts). demand for residential and agricultural water systems is also impacted by weather patterns, particularly by heavy flooding and droughts. we cannot assure you that seasonality and weather conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. intellectual property challenges may hinder product development and marketing. patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies, customer relationships, trade marks, trade names, and brand names are important to our business. intellectual property protection, however, may not preclude competitors from developing products similar to ours or from challenging our names or products. over the past few years, we have noticed an increasing tendency for participants in our markets to use conflicts over and challenges to intellectual property as a means to compete. patent and trademark challenges increase our costs to develop, engineer and market our products. our results of operations may be negatively impacted by litigation. our business exposes us to potential litigation, especially product liability suits that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and sale of our products, such as the horizon litigation discussed in item 3 of this annual report on form 10-k. while we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms or that this insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. in addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. a series of successful claims against us could materially and adversely affect our product reputation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the availability and cost of capital could have a negative impact on our continued growth. our plans to continue growth in our chosen markets will require additional capital for future acquisitions, capital expenditures for existing businesses, growth of working capital, and continued international and regional expansion. in the past, we have financed our growth primarily through debt financing. any significant future acquisitions will require us to expand our debt financing resources or to issue equity securities. our financial results may be adversely affected if interest costs under our debt financings are higher than the income generated by acquisitions or other internal growth. in addition, future acquisitions could be dilutive to your equity investment if we issue additional stock to fund acquisitions. there can be no assurance that we will be able to issue equity securities or to obtain future debt financing at favorable terms. without sufficient financing, we will not be able to pursue our growth strategy, which will limit our growth and revenues in the future. our international operations are subject to foreign market and currency fluctuation risks. we expect the percentage of our sales outside of north america to increase in the future. over the past few years, the economies of some of the foreign countries in which we do business have had slower growth than the u.s. economy. the european union currently accounts for the majority of our foreign sales and income, in which our most significant european market is germany. in addition, we have a significant and growing business in the asia-pacific area. we cannot predict how changing market conditions in these regions will impact our financial results. 10 we are also exposed to the risk of fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates which may affect our financial results. as of december 31, 2006, we held immaterial positions in foreign exchange-forward contracts. we are exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. sales outside of north america, including export sales from north american businesses, accounted for approximately 23% of our net sales in 2006. further, most of our businesses obtain some raw materials and finished goods from foreign suppliers. accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. these risks include: the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the u.s. and the imposition of withholding requirements on foreign earnings; the possibility of terrorist action against us or our operations; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations in non-u.s. labor markets; the protection of intellectual property in foreign countries may be more difficult; required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; and changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets. our business success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. we cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business as a whole. we are exposed to potential environmental liabilities and litigation. compliance with environmental regulations could require us to satisfy environmental liabilities, increase the cost of manufacturing our products or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing public and worker health and safety and the indoor and outdoor environment. any violations of these laws by us could cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities that could harm our operating results and cause our business to suffer. we are also required to comply with various environmental laws and maintain permits, some of which are subject to discretionary renewal from time to time, for many of our businesses, and we could suffer if we are unable to renew existing permits or to obtain any additional permits that we may require. we have been named as defendants, targets, or potentially responsible parties ( prp ) in a number of environmental clean-ups relating to our current or former business units. we have disposed of a number of businesses in recent years and, in certain cases, we have retained responsibility and potential liability for certain environmental obligations. we have received claims for indemnification from certain purchasers. we may be named as a prp at other sites in the future for existing business units, as well as both divested and acquired businesses. we cannot ensure that environmental requirements will not change or become more stringent over time or that our eventual environmental clean-up costs and liabilities will not exceed the amount of our current reserves. 11 provisions of our restated articles of incorporation, bylaws and minnesota law could deter takeover attempts. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, under minnesota law, and in our shareholder rights plan could prevent or delay transactions that our shareholders may favor. our restated articles of incorporation and bylaws include provisions relating to the election, appointment and removal of directors, as well as shareholder notice and shareholder voting requirements which could delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or other change of control. in addition, our common share purchase rights could cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us, which could deter some acquirers from making takeover proposals or tender offers. also, the minnesota business corporations act contains control share acquisition and business combination provisions which could delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or other change of control. our shareholders might view any such transaction as being in their best interests since the transaction could result in a higher stock price than the current market price for our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of some of these risks. counterparties to all derivative contracts are major financial institutions, thereby minimizing the risk of credit loss. all instruments are entered into for other than trading purposes. the major accounting policies and utilization of these instruments is described more fully in item 8, note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. our derivatives and other financial instruments consist of long-term debt (including current portion), short-term borrowing, interest rate swaps, and foreign exchange-forward contracts. the net market value of these financial instruments combined is referred to below as the net financial instrument position. as of december 31, 2006 and december 31, 2005, the net financial instrument position was a liability of $753.6 million and $769.0 million, respectively. interest rate risk our debt portfolio, including swap agreements, as of december 31, 2006 was primarily comprised of debt predominantly denominated in u.s. dollars (97%). this debt portfolio is comprised of 53% fixed-rate debt and 47% variable-rate debt, not considering the effects of our interest rate swaps. taking into account the variable to fixed rate swap agreement we entered with an effective date of april 2006, our debt portfolio is comprised of 67% fixed-rate debt and 33% variable-rate debt. changes in interest rates have different impacts on the fixed and variable-rate portions of our debt portfolio. a change in interest rates on the fixed portion of the debt portfolio impacts the net financial instrument position but has no impact on interest incurred or cash flows. a change in interest rates on the variable portion of the debt portfolio impacts the interest incurred and cash flows but does not impact the net financial instrument position. based on the variable-rate debt included in our debt portfolio, including the interest rate swap agreements, as of december 31, 2006, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $2.5 million increase or decrease in interest incurred. foreign currency risk we are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates because some sales transactions, and the assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries, are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the euro. we held immaterial positions in foreign exchange-forward contracts as of december 31, 2006. we do not expect the effect of foreign exchange rates to have a material impact on our operations. 39risk factors 9 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risk factors and warnings before making an investment decision. if any of the risks described below actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in that case, the price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. you should also refer to other information set forth in this document. general economic conditions, including credit and residential construction markets, affect demand for our products. we compete globally in varied markets. among these, the most significant are north american industrial and commercial markets (for both the water and technical products groups) and the north american residential market (for the water group). economic conditions in the united states affect the robustness of our north american markets. important factors include the overall strength of the economy and our customers confidence in the economy; industrial and municipal capital spending; the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets; the age of existing housing stock; unemployment rates; availability of consumer and commercial financing; and interest rates. new construction for residential housing and home improvement activity fell dramatically in 2007, which reduced revenue growth in our water group, especially in the pool and spa and flow technologies markets we address. we believe that recent weaknesses in these markets will likely continue to affect our revenues and margins throughout 2008. further, while we attempt to minimize our exposure to economic or market fluctuations by serving a balanced mix of end markets and geographic regions, we cannot assure you that a significant or sustained downturn in a specific end market or geographic region would not have a material adverse effect on us. our businesses operate in highly competitive markets, so we may be forced to cut prices or to incur additional costs. our businesses generally face substantial competition in each of their respective markets. competition may force us to cut prices or to incur additional costs to remain competitive. we compete on the basis of product design, quality, availability, performance, customer service and price. present or future competitors may have 9 table of contents greater financial, technical or other resources which could put us at a disadvantage in the affected business or businesses. we cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. our inability to sustain consistent organic growth could adversely affect our financial performance. in 2007 and 2006, our organic growth was generated in part from expanding international sales, entering new distribution channels, price increases and introducing new products. to grow more rapidly than our end markets, we will have to continue to expand our geographic reach, further diversify our distribution channels, continue to introduce new products, and increase sales of existing products to our customer base. competitive and economic factors could adversely affect our ability to sustain consistent organic growth. if we are unable to sustain consistent organic growth, we will be less likely to meet our stated revenue growth targets, which together with any resulting impact on our net income growth, would likely adversely affect the market price of our stock. our inability to complete, or successfully complete and integrate, acquisitions could adversely affect our financial performance. over the past three years, we have grown through acquisitions of businesses within our current business segments, that have generated a significant percentage of our net revenue growth. we may not be able to sustain this level of growth from acquisition activity in the future. we intend to continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions primarily in our current business segments, though we may consider acquisitions outside of these segments as well. our ability to expand through acquisitions is subject to various risks, including the following: higher acquisition prices; lack of suitable acquisition candidates in targeted product or market areas; increased competition for acquisitions, especially in the water industry; diversion of management time and attention to acquisitions and acquired businesses; inability to integrate acquired businesses effectively or profitably; and inability to achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits from acquisitions. acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, particularly in the fiscal quarters immediately following the acquisitions, while we attempt to integrate operations of the acquired businesses into our operations. once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve the levels of profitability originally anticipated. material cost and other inflation could adversely affect our results of operations. we are experiencing material cost and other inflation in a number of our businesses. we are striving for greater productivity improvements and implementing selective increases in selling prices to help mitigate cost increases in raw materials, especially metals, energy and other costs such as pension, health care and insurance. we also are continuing to implement our excellence in operations initiatives in order to continuously reduce our costs. we cannot assure you, however, that these actions will be successful in managing our costs or increasing our productivity. continued cost inflation or failure of our initiatives to generate cost savings or improve productivity would likely negatively impact our results of operations. seasonality of sales and weather conditions may adversely affect our financial results. we experience seasonal demand in a number of markets within our water group. end-user demand for pool equipment follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs from april to august. the magnitude of the sales spike is partially mitigated by employing some advance sale or early buy programs (generally including extended payment terms and/or additional discounts). demand for residential and agricultural water 10 table of contents systems is also impacted by weather patterns, particularly by heavy flooding and droughts. we cannot assure you that seasonality and weather conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. intellectual property challenges may hinder product development and marketing. patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies, customer relationships, trade marks, trade names, and brand names are important to our business. intellectual property protection, however, may not preclude competitors from developing products similar to ours or from challenging our names or products. over the past few years, we have noticed an increasing tendency for participants in our markets to use conflicts over and challenges to intellectual property as a means to compete. patent and trademark challenges increase our costs to develop, engineer and market our products. our results of operations may be negatively impacted by litigation. our business exposes us to potential litigation, especially product liability suits that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and sale of our products, such as the horizon litigation discussed in item 3 and item 8, note 15 of this annual report on form 10-k. while we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms or that this insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. in addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. a series of successful claims against us could materially and adversely affect our product reputation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. the availability and cost of capital could have a negative impact on our continued growth. our plans to continue growth in our chosen markets will require additional capital for future acquisitions, capital expenditures for existing businesses, growth of working capital, and continued international and regional expansion. in the past, we have financed our growth primarily through debt financing. while we refinanced our primary credit agreements in the second quarter of 2007, future acquisitions may require us to expand our debt financing resources or to issue equity securities. our financial results may be adversely affected if interest costs under our debt financings are higher than the income generated by acquisitions or other internal growth. in addition, future acquisitions could be dilutive to your equity investment if we issue additional stock as consideration. there can be no assurance that we will be able to issue equity securities or to obtain future debt financing at favorable terms. without sufficient financing, we will not be able to pursue our growth strategy, especially our acquisition program, which will limit our growth and revenues in the future. our international operations are subject to foreign market and currency fluctuation risks. we expect the percentage of our sales outside of north america to increase in the future. over the past few years, the economies of some of the foreign countries in which we do business have had slower growth than the u.s. economy. the european union currently accounts for the majority of our foreign sales and income, in which our most significant european market is germany. in addition, we have a significant and growing business in the asia-pacific area. we cannot predict how changing market conditions in these regions will impact our financial results. we are also exposed to the risk of fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates which may affect our financial results. in 2007, the weakness of the us dollar benefited our financial results in foreign jurisdictions significantly. we do not anticipate continuing us dollar weakness in foreign exchange markets in 2008 of a similar magnitude, which may hurt our financial results on a comparative basis. in addition, we source certain products, components and raw materials throughout the world, the import of which into the united states has raised the cost of these goods in us dollars and has impacted the results of our domestic businesses as well. we expect a continuing impact of the weak dollar in 2008, as well, although we expect that we should be able to offset this continuing impact through increased focus on our sourcing programs, productivity gains in our facilities and other cost reductions. 11 table of contents we are exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. sales outside of the united states, including export sales from our domestic businesses, accounted for approximately 32% of our net sales in 2007, up from 27% in 2006. further, most of our businesses obtain some products, components and raw materials from foreign suppliers. accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. these risks include: the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the u.s. and the imposition of withholding requirements on foreign earnings; the possibility of terrorist action against us or our operations; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations in non-u.s. labor markets; the difficulty of protecting intellectual property in foreign countries; required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; and changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets. our business success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. we cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business as a whole. we are exposed to potential environmental and other laws, liabilities and litigation. we are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing our environmental practices, public and worker health and safety and the indoor and outdoor environment. compliance with environmental regulations could require us to satisfy environmental liabilities, increase the cost of manufacturing our products or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. any violations of these laws by us could cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities that could harm our operating results and cause our business to suffer. we are also required to comply with various environmental laws and maintain permits, some of which are subject to discretionary renewal from time to time, for many of our businesses, and we could suffer if we are unable to renew existing permits or to obtain any additional permits that we may require. we have been named as defendants, targets, or potentially responsible parties ( prp ) in a number of environmental clean-ups relating to our current or former business units. we have disposed of a number of businesses in recent years and, in certain cases, we have retained responsibility and potential liability for certain environmental obligations. we have received claims for indemnification from certain purchasers. we may be named as a prp at other sites in the future for existing business units, as well as both divested and acquired businesses. we cannot ensure that environmental requirements will not change or become more stringent over time or that our eventual environmental clean-up costs and liabilities will not exceed the amount of our current reserves. provisions of our restated articles of incorporation, bylaws and minnesota law could deter takeover attempts. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, under minnesota law, and in our shareholder rights plan could prevent or delay transactions that our shareholders may favor. 12 table of contents our restated articles of incorporation and bylaws include provisions relating to the election, appointment and removal of directors, as well as shareholder notice and shareholder voting requirements which could delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or other change of control. in addition, our common share purchase rights could cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us, which could deter some acquirers from making takeover proposals or tender offers. also, the minnesota business corporations act contains control share acquisition and business combination provisions which could delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or other change of control. our shareholders might view any such transaction as being in their best interests since the transaction could result in a higher stock price than the current market price for our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of some of these risks. counterparties to all derivative contracts are major financial institutions, thereby minimizing the risk of credit loss. all instruments are entered into for other than trading purposes. the major accounting policies and utilization of these instruments is described more fully in item 8, note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. our derivatives and other financial instruments consist of long-term debt (including current portion), short-term borrowing and interest rate swaps. the net market value of these financial instruments combined is referred to below as the net financial instrument position. as of december 31, 2007 and december 31, 2006, the net financial instrument position was a liability of $1,076.5 million and $753.6 million, respectively. interest rate risk our debt portfolio, including swap agreements, as of december 31, 2007 was primarily comprised of debt predominantly denominated in u.s. dollars (97%). this debt portfolio is comprised of 62% fixed-rate debt and 38% variable-rate debt, not considering the effects of our interest rate swaps. taking into account the variable to fixed rate swap agreement we entered with an effective date of april 2006 and august 2007, our debt portfolio is comprised of 81% fixed-rate debt and 19% variable-rate debt. changes in interest rates have different impacts on the fixed and variable-rate portions of our debt portfolio. a change in interest rates on the fixed portion of the debt portfolio impacts the net financial instrument position but has no impact on interest incurred or cash flows. a change in interest rates on the variable portion of the debt portfolio impacts the interest incurred and cash flows but does not impact the net financial instrument position. based on the variable-rate debt included in our debt portfolio, including the interest rate swap agreements, as of december 31, 2007, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $2.0 million increase or decrease in interest incurred. foreign currency risk we are exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates because some sales transactions, and the assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries, are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the euro. 39 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risk factors and warnings before making an investment decision. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. you should also understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and should not consider the following list to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. if any of the risks described below actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in that case, the price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. you should also refer to other information set forth in this document. general economic conditions, including difficult credit and residential construction markets, affect demand for our products. we compete around the world in various geographic regions and product markets. among these, the most significant are global industrial and commercial markets (for both the water and technical products groups) and residential markets (for the water group). the global credit crisis and recession have adversely affected the robustness of our markets as exemplified in the fourth quarter of 2008. important factors for our businesses include the overall strength of the economy and our customers confidence in the economy; industrial and governmental capital spending; the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets; unemployment rates; availability of consumer and commercial financing for our customers and end-users; and interest rates. new construction for residential housing and home improvement activity fell dramatically in both 2007 and 2008, which reduced revenue growth in each of the businesses within our water group. we believe that weakness in this market and the recent dramatic slowdown in our industrial and commercial markets will 8 table of contents likely continue to affect our revenues and margins throughout 2009. any continuing weakness in these markets beyond 2009 will negatively affect our sales and financial performance in future periods. our inability to sustain consistent organic growth or limit revenue decreases could adversely affect our financial performance. over the past three years, our organic growth was generated in part from expanding international sales, entering new distribution channels, price increases and introducing new products. to grow more rapidly than our end markets, we would have to continue to expand our geographic reach, further diversify our distribution channels, continue to introduce new products, and increase sales of existing products to our customer base. difficult economic and competitive factors adversely affected our ability to sustain consistent organic growth in 2008, as revenues contracted in the fourth quarter. as a result of these economic conditions, that adversely impacted our anticipated financial performance, we did not meet our stated revenue growth targets in the fourth quarter and for the year 2008. we believe that our revenues will continue to decline as our markets weaken. rather than focus our efforts primarily on broad-based revenue growth, we have chosen to limit our growth initiatives to specific end markets and geographies. we cannot assure you that these growth initiatives will be sufficient to offset revenue declines in other markets. our businesses operate in highly competitive markets, so we may be forced to cut prices or to incur additional costs. our businesses generally face substantial competition in each of their respective markets. competition may force us to cut prices or to incur additional costs to remain competitive. we compete on the basis of product design, quality, availability, performance, customer service and price. present or future competitors may have greater financial, technical or other resources which could put us at a disadvantage in the affected business or businesses. we cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. material cost and other inflation have adversely affected and could continue to affect our results of operations. over the past few years, we have experienced material cost and other inflation in a number of our businesses. we are striving for greater productivity improvements and implementing selective increases in selling prices to help mitigate cost increases in raw materials (especially metals and resins), energy and other costs such as pension, health care and insurance. while these inflationary pressures have begun to abate in late 2008 and early 2009 as a result of general economic conditions, we may not be able to recognize the full benefit from this moderating or reversal of material cost and other inflation. in addition, the recent reversal of material cost inflation may not be sustainable once the economy begins to strengthen. we also are continuing to implement our excellence in operations initiatives in order to continuously reduce our costs. we cannot assure you, however, that these actions will be successful in managing our costs or increasing our productivity. continued cost inflation or failure of our initiatives to generate cost savings or improve productivity would likely negatively impact our results of operations. seasonality of sales and weather conditions may adversely affect our financial results. we experience seasonal demand in a number of markets within our water group. end-user demand for pool equipment in our primary markets follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs from april to august. the magnitude of the sales spike is partially mitigated by employing some advance sale or early buy programs (generally including extended payment terms and/or additional discounts). demand for residential and agricultural water systems is also impacted by weather patterns, particularly by heavy flooding and droughts. we cannot assure you that seasonality and weather conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 9 table of contents intellectual property challenges may hinder product development and marketing. patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies, customer relationships, trade marks, trade names, and brand names are important to our business. intellectual property protection, however, may not preclude competitors from developing products similar to ours or from challenging our names or products. over the past few years, we have noticed an increasing tendency for participants in our markets to use conflicts over and challenges to intellectual property as a means to compete. patent and trademark challenges increase our costs to develop, engineer and market our products. our results of operations may be negatively impacted by litigation. our business exposes us to potential litigation, such as product liability claims relating to the design, manufacture, and sale of our products. while we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms or that this insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. in addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. a series of successful claims against us for significant amounts could materially and adversely affect our product reputation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. reductions in our acquisition activity will likely slow our revenue growth or otherwise adversely affect our financial performance. over the past four years, much of our growth has resulted from acquisitions of businesses within our current business segments. while we intend to continue to evaluate acquisitions in these segments, given the current financial and economic environment, we currently do not expect to make significant acquisitions until credit markets and business conditions stabilize. we cannot assure you that we would be able to continue to grow or to limit revenue declines without making acquisitions. acquisitions we may undertake could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, particularly in the fiscal quarters immediately following the acquisitions, while we attempt to integrate operations of the acquired businesses into our operations. once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve the levels of profitability originally anticipated. the availability and cost of capital could have a negative impact on our financial performance. our plans to vigorously compete in our chosen markets will require additional capital for future acquisitions, capital expenditures, growth of working capital, and continued international and regional expansion. in the past, we have financed growth of our businesses primarily through cash from operations and debt financing. while we refinanced our primary credit agreements in the second quarter of 2007 on what we believe to be favorable terms, future acquisitions or other uses of funds may require us to expand our debt financing resources or to issue equity securities. our financial results may be adversely affected if new financing is not available on favorable terms or if interest costs under our debt financings are higher than the income generated by acquisitions or other internal growth. in addition, future acquisitions could be dilutive to your equity investment if we issue additional stock as consideration. we cannot assure you that we will be able to issue equity securities or obtain future debt financing at favorable terms. without sufficient financing, we will not be able to pursue our targeted growth strategy, and our acquisition program, which will limit our revenue growth and future financial performance. we are exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. sales outside of the united states, including export sales from our domestic businesses, accounted for approximately 35% of our gross sales in 2008, up from 32% in 2007. further, most of our businesses obtain some products, components and raw materials from foreign suppliers. accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. these risks include: changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; 10 table of contents relatively more severe economic conditions in some international markets than in the united states; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the u.s. and the imposition of withholding requirements on foreign earnings; the possibility of terrorist action against us or our operations; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other trade restrictions; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations in non-u.s. labor markets; the difficulty of protecting intellectual property in foreign countries; and required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations. our business success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. we cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business as a whole. our international operations are subject to foreign market and currency fluctuation risks. we expect the percentage of our sales outside of north america to increase in the future. over the past few years, the economies of some of the foreign countries in which we do business have had slower growth than the u.s. economy. the european union currently accounts for the majority of our foreign sales and income, in which our most significant european market is germany; each market area is currently experiencing similar economic difficulties to those in the united states, and sales in those markets slowed significantly by the end of 2008. in addition, we have a significant and growing business in the asia-pacific area, but the economic conditions in countries in this region are subject to different growth expectations, market weaknesses and business practices. we cannot predict how changing market conditions in these regions will impact our financial results. we are also exposed to the risk of fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates which may affect our financial results. in 2008, the weakness of the us dollar slightly benefited our financial results in foreign jurisdictions. we do not anticipate continuing us dollar weakness in foreign exchange markets in 2009 of a similar magnitude, which may hurt our financial results on a comparative basis. in addition, we source certain products, components and raw materials throughout the world, the import of which into the united states has raised the cost of these goods in us dollars and has impacted the results of our domestic businesses as well. we have significant goodwill and intangible assets, and future impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material negative impact on our financial results. we test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis as required by statement of accounting standards no. 142, goodwill and other intangible assets (sfas no. 142), by comparing the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units to their respective carrying values on our balance sheet. at december 31, 2008 our goodwill and intangible assets were approximately $2,617.4 million, and represented approximately 64.6% of our total assets. while our annual assessment in 2008 did not indicate an impairment of goodwill at that time, long-term declines in projected future cash flows could result in future goodwill and intangible asset impairments. because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. we are exposed to potential environmental and other laws, liabilities and litigation. we are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing our environmental practices, public and worker health and safety and the indoor and outdoor environment. compliance with these environmental, health and safety regulations could require us to satisfy environmental liabilities, increase the 11 table of contents cost of manufacturing our products or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. any violations of these laws by us could cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities that could harm our operating results and cause our business to suffer. we are also required to comply with various environmental laws and maintain permits, some of which are subject to discretionary renewal from time to time, for many of our businesses, and we could suffer if we are unable to renew existing permits or to obtain any additional permits that we may require. we have been named as defendants, targets, or potentially responsible parties ( prp ) in a number of environmental clean-ups relating to our current or former business units. we have disposed of a number of businesses in recent years and, in certain cases, we have retained responsibility and potential liability for certain environmental obligations. we have received claims for indemnification from certain purchasers. we may be named as a prp at other sites in the future for existing business units, as well as both divested and acquired businesses. we have also made claims against third parties for indemnification against potential liabilities for environmental remediations or other obligations. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining indemnity or reimbursement for such costs. we cannot ensure you that environmental requirements will not change or become more stringent over time or that our eventual environmental clean-up costs and liabilities will not exceed the amount of our current reserves. provisions of our restated articles of incorporation, bylaws and minnesota law could deter takeover attempts. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, under minnesota law, and in our shareholder rights plan could prevent or delay transactions that our shareholders may favor. our restated articles of incorporation and bylaws include provisions relating to the election, appointment and removal of directors, as well as shareholder notice and shareholder voting requirements which could delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or other change of control. in addition, our common share purchase rights could cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us, which could deter some acquirers from making takeover proposals or tender offers. also, the minnesota business corporations act contains control share acquisition and business combination provisions which could delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or other change of control. our shareholders might view any such transaction as being in their best interests since the transaction could result in a higher stock price than the current market price for our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of some of these risks. 38 table of contents counterparties to all derivative contracts are major financial institutions. all instruments are entered into for other than trading purposes. the major accounting policies and utilization of these instruments is described more fully in item 8, note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. our derivatives and other financial instruments consist of long-term debt (including current portion), short-term borrowing and interest rate swaps. the net market value of these financial instruments combined is referred to below as the net financial instrument position. as of december 31, 2008 and december 31, 2007, the net financial instrument position was a liability of $923.9 million and $1,076.5 million, respectively. failure of one or more of our swap counterparties would result in the loss of any benefit to us of the swap agreement. in this case, we would continue to be obligated to pay the variable interest payments per the underlying debt agreements which are at variable interest rates of 3 month libor plus .50% for $105 million of debt and 3 month libor plus .60% for $100 million of debt. additionally, failure of one or all of our swap counterparties would not eliminate our obligation to continue to make payments under our existing swap agreements if we continue to be in a net pay position. interest rate risk our debt portfolio, including swap agreements, as of december 31, 2008 was comprised of debt predominantly denominated in u.s. dollars. this debt portfolio is comprised of 56% fixed-rate debt and 44% variable-rate debt, not considering the effects of our interest rate swaps. taking into account the variable to fixed rate swap agreement we entered with an effective date of april 2006 and august 2007, our debt portfolio is comprised of 78% fixed-rate debt and 22% variable-rate debt. changes in interest rates have different impacts on the fixed and variable-rate portions of our debt portfolio. a change in interest rates on the fixed portion of the debt portfolio impacts the net financial instrument position but has no impact on interest incurred or cash flows. a change in interest rates on the variable portion of the debt portfolio impacts the interest incurred and cash flows but does not impact the net financial instrument position. based on the variable-rate debt included in our debt portfolio, including the interest rate swap agreements, as of december 31, 2008, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $2.1 million increase or decrease in interest incurred. foreign currency risk we conduct business in various locations throughout the world and are subject to market risk due to changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar. we generally do not use derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. the functional currencies of our foreign operating locations are the local currency in the country of domicile. we manage these operating activities at the local level and revenues, costs, assets, and liabilities are generally denominated in local currencies, thereby mitigating the risk associated with changes in foreign exchange. however, our results of operations and assets and liabilities are reported in u.s. dollars and thus will fluctuate with changes in exchange rates between such local currencies and the u.s. dollar. 39 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we use derivative financial instruments to manage and reduce the impact of some of these risks. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of our borrowing activities used to fund operations. interest rate swaps are used to manage a portion of our interest rate risk. the table below summarizes our floating and fixed rate debt obligations including the impact of interest rate swap agreements as of december 31, 2002. the average variable rates depicted below for the interest rate swaps are based on implied forward rates in the yield curve at december 31, 2002. expected year of maturity dollars in thousands 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 thereafter total fair value long-term debt, including current portion variable rate $ $ 330,400 $ $ $ $ $ 330,400 $ 330,400 average interest rate 2.62 % 2.62 % fixed rate 59,322 46,714 1,306 101 37,530 250,000 394,973 441,464 average interest rate 6.25 % 6.62 % 3.09 % 3.09 % 6.73 % 7.85 % 7.34 % portion subject to interest rate swaps variable to fixed 15,000 20,000 20,000 55,000 (3,809 ) average rate to be received 1.32 % 2.04 % 3.27 % 1.86 % average rate to be paid 6.31 % 6.31 % 6.31 % 6.31 % fixed to variable 100,000 100,000 1,154 average rate to be received 7.85 % 7.85 % average rate to be paid 7.65 % 7.65 % foreign currency risk we have entered into foreign currency swap agreements with a major financial institution to hedge firm foreign currency commitments. as of december 31, 2002, the following table presents principal cash flows of our open currency swap agreements: expected year of maturity in thousands 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 thereafter total fair value forward exchange agreements (1) receive u.s. dollars $ 50,000 $ $ $ $ $ $ 50,000 $ 7,144 pay canadian dollars 69,385 69,385 receive canadian dollars 69,385 69,385 (3,772 ) pay euros 45,313 45,313 receive euros 34,601 34,601 679 pay swiss francs 500 500 pay u.s. dollars 31,164 31,164 pay british pounds 2,000 2,000 pay singapore dollars 1,320 1,320 total exchange gain $ 4,051 (1) foreign exchange information is presented in local currency by maturity; however, the fair value is presented in u.s. dollars 30 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. we use derivative financial instruments to manage and reduce the impact of some of these risks. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of our borrowing activities used to fund operations. interest rate swaps are used to manage a portion of our interest rate risk. the table below presents principal cash flows and related interest rates by year of maturity for variable rate and fixed rate debt obligations. variable interest rates disclosed represent the weighted-average rate of the portfolio at each period end. notional amounts and related interest rate of interest rate swaps are presented by year of maturity. for the swaps, variable rates are the average forward rates for the term of each contract. expected year of maturity dollars in thousands 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 thereafter total fair value long-term debt, including current portion variable rate $ 20,000 $ $ 239,006 $ $ $ 100,000 $ 359,006 $ 359,006 average interest rate 1.96 % 2.16 % 2.26 % 2.17 % fixed rate 52,465 396 1,086 37,822 350,000 441,769 483,233 average interest rate 6.39 % 1.83 % 1.83 % 6.61 % 7.03 % 6.90 % portion subject to interest rate swaps variable to fixed 20,000 20,000 40,000 (1,865 ) average rate to be received 1.23 % 2.55 % 1.61 % average rate to be paid 6.31 % 6.31 % 6.31 % fixed to variable 100,000 100,000 (987 ) average rate to be received 7.85 % 7.85 % average rate to be paid 8.01 % 8.01 % foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign exchange risk as a result of transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of certain subsidiaries, including subsidiary debt. we have entered into foreign currency forward exchange agreements with a major financial institution to hedge firm foreign currency commitments. in 2003, the following forward exchange agreements matured: receive $50.0 million u.s. dollars, pay $69.4 million canadian dollars, receive $69.4 million canadian dollars, and pay $45.3 million euros. as of december 31, 2003, the following table presents principal cash flows and fair values of our open currency forward exchange agreements: expected year of maturity in thousands 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 thereafter total fair value forward exchange agreements (1) pay euros $ (13,844 ) $ $ $ $ $ $ (13,844 ) pay singapore dollars (20 ) (20 ) pay swiss francs (1,202 ) (1,202 ) pay british pounds (4,286 ) (4,286 ) receive usd 25,744 25,744 total exchange loss $ (327 ) (1) foreign exchange information is presented in local currency by maturity, however, the fair value is presented in u.s. dollars. 33 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of some of these risks. counterparties to all derivative contracts are major financial institutions, thereby minimizing the risk of credit loss. all instruments are entered into for other than trading purposes. the major accounting policies and utilization of these instruments is described more fully in item 8, note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. our derivatives and other financial instruments consist of long-term debt (including current portion), interest rate swaps, and foreign exchange-forward contracts. the net market value of these financial instruments combined is referred to below as the net financial instrument position. as of december 31, 2004 and december 31, 2003, the net financial instrument position was a liability of $766.5 million and $839.4 million, respectively. the decrease in the net financial instrument position was due primarily to the pay down of fixed rate debt in 2004. we have changed the format of our market risk disclosure to more definitively illustrate the sensitivity of the company financial instruments to selected changes in interest rates. interest rate risk our debt portfolio, including swap agreements, as of december 31, 2004, was primarily comprised of debt predominantly denominated in u.s. dollars (99%). this debt portfolio is composed of 43% fixed-rate debt and 57% variable-rate debt, considering the effects of our interest rate swaps. changes in interest rates have different impacts on the fixed-and variable-rate portions of our debt portfolio. a change in interest rates on the fixed portion of the debt portfolio impacts the net financial instrument position but has no impact on interest incurred or cash flows. a change in interest rates on the variable portion of the debt portfolio impacts the interest incurred and cash flows but does not impact the net financial instrument position. based on the variable-rate debt included in our debt portfolio, including the interest rate swap agreements, as of december 31, 2004 and december 31, 2003, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $4.2 million increase or decrease in interest incurred per year, respectively. foreign currency risk we held immaterial positions in foreign exchange-forward contracts as of december 31, 2004. 29 table of contentsrisk factors 5 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risk factors and warnings before making an investment decision. you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. you should also understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and should not consider the following list to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. if any of the risks described below actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. in that case, the price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. you should also refer to other information set forth in this document. we assume no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to update risk factors in this report except as required by law. general economic conditions, including difficult credit and residential construction markets, affect demand for our products. we compete around the world in various geographic regions and product markets. among these, the most significant are global industrial markets (for both technical products and water &amp; fluid solutions) and residential markets (for water &amp; fluid solutions). important factors for our businesses include the overall strength of the economy and our customers confidence in the economy; industrial and governmental capital spending; the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets; unemployment rates; availability of consumer and commercial financing for our customers and end-users; and interest rates. new construction for housing and home improvement activity fell in 2007, 2008 and 2009, which reduced revenue growth in the residential business within water &amp; fluid solutions. while we saw some stabilization in 2010 and 2011, we believe that weakness in this market could negatively impact our revenues and margins in future periods. while we attempt to minimize our exposure to economic or market fluctuations by serving a balanced mix of end markets and geographic regions, we cannot assure you that a significant or sustained downturn in a specific end market or geographic region would not have a material adverse effect on us. we are exposed to political, regulatory, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. sales outside of the united states, including export sales from our domestic businesses, accounted for approximately 40% of our net sales in 2011. further, most of our businesses obtain some products, components and raw materials from foreign suppliers. accordingly, our business is subject to the political, regulatory, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. these risks include: changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; relatively more severe economic conditions in some international markets than in the united states; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; 5 table of contents trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements and restrictions; the possibility of terrorist action affecting us or our operations; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other trade restrictions; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations in non-u.s. labor markets; changes in tax laws or rulings could have an adverse impact on our effective tax rate; the difficulty of protecting intellectual property in foreign countries; and changes in and required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations. as a result of our international operations and sales, we are subject to the foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom bribery act and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of improper payments. our international activities create risk under such laws because our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors are not always subject to our direct control. any violations or alleged violations of these laws could result in significant fines or settlements, criminal sanctions against us or our employees, reputational damage and prohibitions on the conduct of our business, including our business with the u.s. government. our business success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. we cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business as a whole. our international operations are subject to foreign market and currency fluctuation risks and the european union debt crisis could adversely affect our results. we expect the percentage of our sales outside of the united states to continue to increase in the future. in some cases, foreign markets are susceptible to greater political, economic and social volatility than in our other markets. furthermore, our increased foreign business operations expose us to currency fluctuations which could materially affect our financial results. the european union currently accounts for the majority of our foreign sales and income. the current debt crisis in europe could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in certain european union countries or in the wholesale dissolution of the euro currency. the resulting impact on euro-denominated obligations and assets is impossible to predict, but it could adversely affect the value of such obligations and assets. also, the effect of the debt crisis in europe could have an adverse affect on the capital markets generally, specifically impacting the ability of our business and financial partners to finance their businesses on acceptable terms, if at all, the availability of materials and supplies and demand for our products. our inability to sustain organic growth could adversely affect our financial performance. over the past five years, our organic growth has been generated in part from expanding international sales, entering new distribution channels, introducing new products and price increases. to grow more rapidly than our end markets, we would have to continue to expand our geographic reach, further diversify our distribution channels, continue to introduce new products and increase sales of existing products to our customer base. difficult economic and competitive factors may materially and adversely impact our financial performance. we have chosen to focus our growth initiatives in specific end markets and geographies. we cannot assure you that these growth initiatives will be sufficient to offset revenue declines in other markets. we may not be able to expand through acquisitions and acquisitions we complete may adversely affect our financial performance. we intend to continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions primarily in our current business segments, though we may consider acquisitions outside of these segments as well. our ability to expand through acquisitions is subject to various risks, including the following: limitations on pursuing acquisitions due to increased leverage; 6 table of contents higher acquisition prices; lack of suitable acquisition candidates in targeted product or market areas; and increased competition for acquisitions, especially in the water industry. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, any benefits may take longer to realize than we expect and acquisitions we complete may adversely affect our financial performance. any acquisition involves the integration of acquired operations with our existing operations and there are uncertainties inherent in such an integration. we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to such an integration and delays or unexpected difficulties in the integration process could adversely affect our business, financial results and financial condition. even if we are successful in integrating acquired operations, we may not achieve the full benefits of revenue synergies, cost savings and operational efficiencies that we expect or within the time we expect. acquisitions we may undertake could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, particularly in the fiscal quarters immediately following the acquisitions, while we attempt to integrate operations of the acquired businesses into our operations. in addition, we may have not discovered during due diligence all facts and factors that could produce unintended or unexpected consequences for us, including financial liabilities, which could be material and result in us not achieving the expected benefits from the acquisition within our desired time frames, if at all. as we continue our integration of cpt operations with our existing operations, uncertainties remain and we may not achieve the full expected benefits of that acquisition, including revenue synergies, cost savings and operational efficiencies, or within the time we expect. increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2011, we had $1,309.1 million of total debt on a consolidated basis. any future increase in our level of indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation: cash requirements to support the payment of interest on our outstanding indebtedness may increase; increases in our outstanding indebtedness and leverage may increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes may be reduced; our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry may be reduced; and our flexibility to make acquisitions and develop technology may be limited. our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements, we may be required, among other things: to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; to sell selected assets or businesses; or to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. 7 table of contents such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements. in addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms, if at all. the availability and cost of capital could have a negative impact on our financial performance. our plans to vigorously compete in our chosen markets will require additional capital for future acquisitions, capital expenditures, growth of working capital and continued international and regional expansion. in the past, we have financed growth of our businesses primarily through cash from operations and debt financing. while we have availability under our primary credit agreements on what we believe to be favorable terms, future acquisitions or other uses of funds may require us to expand our debt financing resources or to issue equity securities. our financial results may be adversely affected if new financing is not available on favorable terms or if interest costs under our debt financings are higher than the income generated by acquisitions or other internal growth. in addition, future share issuances could be dilutive to your equity investment if we sell shares into the market or issue additional stock as consideration in any acquisition. we cannot assure you that we will be able to issue equity securities or obtain future debt financing at favorable terms. without sufficient financing, we will not be able to pursue our targeted growth strategy and our acquisition program, which may limit our revenue growth and future financial performance. we have significant goodwill and intangible assets and future impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material negative impact on our financial results. we test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, by comparing the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units to their respective carrying values on their balance sheets. at december 31, 2011 our goodwill and intangible assets were approximately $2,866.2 million and represented approximately 62.5% of our total assets. long-term declines in projected future cash flows could result in future goodwill and intangible asset impairments. because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. in the fourth quarter of 2011, we completed our annual goodwill impairment review. as a result, we recorded a pre-tax non-cash impairment charge of $200.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2011. this represents impairment of goodwill in our residential filtration reporting unit, part of water &amp; fluid solutions. the impairment charge resulted from changes in our forecasts in light of economic conditions prevailing in these markets and due to continued softness in the end-markets served by residential water treatment components. material cost and other inflation have adversely affected and could continue to affect our results of operations. in the past, we have experienced material cost and other inflation in a number of our businesses. we strive for productivity improvements and implement increases in selling prices to help mitigate cost increases in raw materials (especially metals and resins), energy and other costs such as pension, health care and insurance. we continue to implement operational initiatives in order to mitigate the impacts of this inflation and continuously reduce our costs. we cannot assure you, however, that these actions will be successful in managing our costs or increasing our productivity. continued cost inflation or failure of our initiatives to generate cost savings or improve productivity would likely negatively impact our results of operations. our businesses operate in highly competitive markets, so we may be forced to cut prices or to incur additional costs. our businesses generally face substantial competition in each of their respective markets. competition may force us to cut prices or to incur additional costs to remain competitive. we compete on the basis of product design, quality, availability, performance, customer service and price. present or future competitors may have greater 8 table of contents financial, technical or other resources which could put us at a disadvantage in the affected business or businesses. we cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. seasonality of sales and weather conditions may adversely affect our financial results. we experience seasonal demand in a number of markets within water &amp; fluid solutions. end-user demand for pool equipment in our primary markets follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs from april to august. the magnitude of the sales increase is partially mitigated by employing some advance sale or early buy programs (generally including extended payment terms and/or additional discounts). demand for residential and agricultural water systems is also impacted by weather patterns, particularly by heavy flooding and droughts. we cannot assure you that seasonality and weather conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. intellectual property challenges may hinder product development and marketing. patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies, customer relationships, trade marks, trade names and brand names are important to our business. intellectual property protection, however, may not preclude competitors from developing products similar to ours or from challenging our names or products. our pending patent applications, and our pending copyright and trademark registration applications, may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. in addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. over the past few years, we have noticed an increasing tendency for participants in our markets to use conflicts over and challenges to intellectual property as a means to compete. patent and trademark challenges increase our costs to develop, engineer and market our products. we may need to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights and we may or may not be able to detect infringement by third parties our results of operations may be negatively impacted by litigation. our businesses expose us to potential litigation, such as product liability claims relating to the design, manufacture and sale of our products. while we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms or that this insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. in addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. a series of successful claims against us for significant amounts could materially and adversely affect our product reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are exposed to potential environmental and other laws, liabilities and litigation. we are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing our environmental practices, public and worker health and safety and the indoor and outdoor environment. compliance with these environmental, health and safety regulations could require us to satisfy environmental liabilities, increase the cost of manufacturing our products or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. any violations of these laws by us could cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities that could harm our operating results and cause our business to suffer. we are also required to comply with various environmental laws and maintain permits, some of which are subject to discretionary renewal from time to time, for many of our businesses and we could suffer if we are unable to renew existing permits or to obtain any additional permits that we may require. we have been named as defendants, targets or potentially responsible parties ( prp ) in a number of environmental clean-ups relating to our current or former business units. we have disposed of a number of businesses in recent years and in certain cases, we have retained responsibility and potential liability for certain environmental obligations. we have received claims for indemnification from certain purchasers. we may be named as a prp at other sites in the future for existing business units, as well as both divested and acquired businesses. 9 table of contents we cannot ensure you that environmental requirements will not change or become more stringent over time or that our eventual environmental clean-up costs and liabilities will not exceed the amount of our current reserves. we are exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. the u.s. congress and federal and state regulatory agencies have been considering legislation and regulatory proposals that would regulate and limit greenhouse gas emissions. it is uncertain whether, when and in what form a federal mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program may be adopted. similarly, certain countries have adopted the kyoto protocol and this and other international initiatives under consideration could affect our international operations. these actions could increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for raw materials and transportation. because it is uncertain what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 10 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential economic loss that may result from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. we use derivative financial instruments to manage or reduce the impact of changes in interest rates. counterparties to all derivative contracts are major financial institutions. all instruments are entered into for other than trading purposes. the major accounting policies and utilization of these instruments is described more fully in item 8, note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. failure of one or more of our swap counterparties would result in the loss of any benefit to us of the swap agreement. in this case, we would continue to be obligated to pay the variable interest payments per the underlying debt agreements which are at variable interest rates of 3 month libor plus .50% for $105 million of debt and 3 month libor plus ..60% for $100 million of debt. additionally, failure of one or all of our swap counterparties would not eliminate our obligation to continue to make payments under our existing swap agreements if we continue to be in a net pay position. interest rate risk our debt portfolio, excluding the impact of swap agreements, as of december 31, 2011, was comprised of debt predominantly denominated in u.s. dollars. this debt portfolio is comprised of 69% fixed-rate debt and 31% variable-rate debt, not considering the effects of our interest rate swaps. taking into account the variable to fixed-rate swap agreements we entered into with an effective date of april 2006 and august 2007, our debt portfolio is comprised of 85% fixed-rate debt and 15% variable-rate debt. changes in interest rates have different impacts on the fixed and variable-rate portions of our debt portfolio. a change in interest rates on the fixed portion of the debt portfolio impacts the fair value but has no impact on interest incurred or cash flows. a change in interest rates on the variable portion of the debt portfolio impacts the interest incurred and cash flows but does not impact the net financial instrument position. based on the fixed-rate debt included in our debt portfolio, as of december 31, 2011, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $53.0 million increase or $58.0 million decrease in fair value. based on the variable-rate debt included in our debt portfolio, including the interest rate swap agreements, as of december 31, 2011, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a $2.0 million increase or decrease in interest incurred. foreign currency risk we conduct business in various locations throughout the world and are subject to market risk due to changes in the value of foreign currencies in relation to our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar. we use derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. the functional currencies of our foreign operating locations are the local currency in the country of domicile. we manage these operating activities at the local level and revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are generally denominated in local currencies, thereby mitigating the risk associated with changes in foreign exchange. however, our results of operations and assets and liabilities are reported in u.s. dollars and thus will fluctuate with changes in exchange rates between such local currencies and the u.s. dollar. from time to time, we may enter in to short duration foreign currency contracts to hedge foreign currency risks. 36 table of contentsrisk factors 5 risk factors you should carefully consider all of the information in this document and the following risk factors before making an investment decision regarding our securities. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this document. while we believe we have identified and discussed below the material risks affecting us, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we do not currently believe to be material that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the future. 5 risks relating to our business general global economic and business conditions affect demand for our products. we compete in various geographic regions and product markets around the world. among these, the most significant are global industrial markets and residential markets. many of our businesses have experienced periodic economic downturns. important factors for our businesses and the businesses of our customers include the overall strength of the economy and our customers confidence in the economy; industrial and governmental capital spending; the strength of the residential and commercial real estate markets; unemployment rates; availability of consumer and commercial financing; interest rates; and energy and commodity prices. while we attempt to minimize our exposure to economic or market fluctuations by serving a balanced mix of end markets and geographic regions, any of these factors, individually or in the aggregate, or a significant or sustained downturn in a specific end market or geographic region could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we compete in attractive markets with a high level of competition, which may result in pressure on our profit margins and limit our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products and services are geographically diverse and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies and lower cost manufacturers. we compete based on technical expertise, reputation for quality and reliability, timeliness of delivery, previous installation history, contractual terms and price. some of our competitors, in particular smaller companies, attempt to compete based primarily on price, localized expertise and local relationships, especially with respect to products and applications that do not require a great deal of engineering or technical expertise. in addition, during economic downturns average selling prices tend to decrease as market participants compete more aggressively on price. if we are unable to continue to differentiate our products, services and solutions, or if we are forced to cut prices or to incur additional costs to remain competitive, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our future growth is dependent upon our ability to continue to adapt our products, services and organization to meet the demands of local markets in both developed and emerging economies and by developing or acquiring new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. we operate in global markets that are characterized by customer demand that is often global in scope but localized in delivery. we compete with thousands of smaller regional and local companies that may be positioned to offer products produced at lower cost than ours, or to capitalize on highly localized relationships and knowledge that are difficult for us to replicate. also, in several emerging markets potential customers prefer local suppliers, in some cases because of existing relationships and in other cases because of local legal restrictions or incentives that favor local businesses. accordingly, our future success depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to adapt our products, services, organization, workforce and sales strategies to fit localities throughout the world, particularly in high growth emerging markets; identify emerging technological and other trends in our target end-markets; and develop or acquire competitive products and services and bring them to market quickly and cost-effectively. we have chosen to focus our growth initiatives in specific end markets and geographies, but we cannot provide assurance that these growth initiatives will be sufficient to offset revenue declines in other markets. the failure to effectively adapt our products or services could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 6 our business strategy includes acquiring companies and making investments that complement our existing businesses. these acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. we continue to analyze and evaluate the acquisition of strategic businesses or product lines with the potential to strengthen our industry position or enhance our existing set of product and services offerings. there can be no assurance that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable acquisition candidates in the future or that completed acquisitions will be successful. acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; difficulties in obtaining and verifying the financial statements and other business information of acquired businesses; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of acquired companies or of ours; assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including risks related to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ); and dilution of interests of holders of our common shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our business operations. any acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as such acquisitions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. we are exposed to political, regulatory, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. the unaudited pro forma combined sales for pentair, inc. and flow control outside of the united states for the last twelve months ended december 31, 2012 accounted for 60% of our net sales, and we expect this percentage to be representative of our future sales mix. further, most of our businesses obtain some products, components and raw materials from foreign suppliers. accordingly, our business is subject to the political, regulatory, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. these risks include: changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; relatively more severe economic conditions in some international markets than in the united states; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; the difficulty of communicating and monitoring standards and directives across our global network of after-market service centers and manufacturing facilities; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements and restrictions; the possibility of terrorist action affecting us or our operations; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other trade restrictions; 7 difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations in non-u.s. labor markets; changes in tax treaties, laws or rulings that could have an adverse impact on our effective tax rate; limitations on repatriation of earnings; the difficulty of protecting intellectual property in foreign countries; and changes in and required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. we cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business as a whole. volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the unaudited pro forma combined sales for pentair, inc. and flow control outside of the united states for the last twelve months ended december 31, 2012 accounted for 60% of our net sales, and we expect this percentage to be representative of our future sales mix. our financial statements reflect translation of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars. therefore, if the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the principle non-u.s. currencies from which we derive revenue as compared to a prior period, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will effectively be decreased to the extent of the change in currency valuations, and vice-versa. changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and in some instances, may have a significant effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our future revenue depends in part on the existence of and our ability to win new contracts for major capital projects. an increasing portion of our revenue in our thermal management and water &amp; environmental systems gbus is derived from major capital projects, including water pipeline and desalination projects in water &amp; fluid solutions. the number of such projects we may win in any year fluctuates, and is dependent upon the general availability of such projects and our ability to bid successfully for them. if negative market conditions arise, fewer such projects may be available, and if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or required governmental approvals we may not be able to pursue particular projects. either condition could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we maintain a sizable backlog and the timing of our conversion of revenue out of backlog is uncertain. our inability to convert backlog into revenue, whether due to factors that are within or outside of our control, could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. the timing of our conversion of revenue out of backlog is subject to a variety of factors that may cause delays, many of which, including fluctuations in our customers delivery schedules, are beyond our control. this is especially true with respect to major global capital projects, where the extended timeline for project completion and invoice satisfaction increases the likelihood for delays in the conversion of backlog related to modifications and order cancellations. such delays may lead to significant fluctuations in results of operations and cash flows from quarter to quarter, making it difficult to predict our financial performance on a quarterly basis. further, while we believe that historical order cancellations have not been significant, if we were to experience a significant amount of cancellations of or reductions in orders, it would reduce our backlog and, consequently, our future sales and results of operations. material cost and other inflation have adversely affected and could continue to affect our results of operations. in the past, we have experienced material cost and other inflation in a number of our businesses. we strive for productivity improvements and implement increases in selling prices to help mitigate cost increases in raw materials (especially metals and resins), energy and other costs such as pension, health care and insurance. we continue to implement operational initiatives in order to mitigate the impacts of this inflation and continuously reduce our costs. we cannot provide assurance, however, that these actions will be successful in managing our 8 costs or increasing our productivity. continued cost inflation or failure of our initiatives to generate cost savings or improve productivity would likely negatively impact our results of operations. we are exposed to liquidated damages in many of our customer contracts. many of our customer contracts contain liquidated damages provisions in the event that we fail to perform our obligations thereunder in a timely manner or in accordance with agreed terms, conditions and standards. liquidated damages provisions typically provide for a payment to be made by us to the customer if we fail to deliver a product or service on time. we generally try to limit our exposure to a maximum penalty within a contract. however, because our products are often components of large and complex systems or capital projects, if we incur liquidated damages they may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. certain of our products require certifications by regulators or standards organizations, and our failure to obtain or maintain such certifications could negatively impact our business. in certain industries and for certain applications, in particular with respect to our pressure relief valves and valves used in the nuclear power generation industry, we must obtain certifications for our products or installations by regulators or standards organizations. as we expand our products offering into emerging markets, we will need to comply with additional and potentially different certification requirements. if we fail to obtain required certifications for our products, or if we fail to maintain such certifications on our products after they have been certified, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. intellectual property challenges may hinder our ability to develop, engineer and market our products. patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies, customer relationships, trademarks, trade names and brand names are important to our business. intellectual property protection, however, may not preclude competitors from developing products similar to ours or from challenging our names or products. our pending patent applications, and our pending copyright and trademark registration applications, may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. in addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. over the past few years, we have noticed an increasing tendency for participants in our markets to use conflicts over and challenges to intellectual property as a means to compete. patent and trademark challenges increase our costs to develop, engineer and market our products. we may need to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights and we may or may not be able to detect infringement by third parties. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights or register new patents, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have significant goodwill and intangible assets and future impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material negative impact on our financial results. we test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, by comparing the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units to their respective carrying values on their balance sheets. as of december 31, 2012 our goodwill and intangible assets were $6,804.2 million and represented 58% of our total assets. long-term declines in projected future cash flows could result in future goodwill and intangible asset impairments. because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. in the fourth quarter of 2012 and 2011, we completed our annual goodwill and intangible assets impairment reviews. as a result, we recorded a pre-tax non-cash impairment charge of $60.7 million for trade names intangibles and $200.5 million for goodwill in the fourth quarter of 2012 and 2011, respectively. these represent impairments of trade names in water &amp; fluid solutions and technical solutions in 2012. the impairment charge was the result of a rebranding strategy implemented in the fourth quarter of 2012. in 2011, the goodwill impairment occurred in water &amp; fluid solutions. the impairment charges resulted from changes in our forecasts in light of economic conditions and due to continued softness in the end-markets served by residential water treatment components. 9 we may be adversely affected by work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force. as of december 31, 2012, 15,000 of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils. although we believe that our relations with the labor unions and work councils that represent our employees are generally good and we have experienced no material strikes and only minor work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not experience in the future these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. seasonality of sales and weather conditions may adversely affect our financial results. we experience seasonal demand in a number of markets within water &amp; fluid solutions and technical solutions. in the aquatic systems gbu of water &amp; fluid solutions, end-user demand for pool equipment in our primary markets follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs from april to august. in the flow technologies gbu of water &amp; fluid solutions, demand for residential water supply products and agricultural products follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs from april to august. the magnitude of the sales increase in both aquatic systems and flow technologies is partially mitigated by employing some advance sale or early buy programs (generally including extended payment terms and/or additional discounts). also in water &amp; fluid solutions, our water &amp; environmental systems gbu generally experiences increased demand during australia prime agricultural seasons. seasonal effects may vary from year to year and are impacted by weather patterns, particularly by temperatures, heavy flooding and droughts. the thermal management gbu in technical solutions generally experiences increased demand for products and services during the fall and winter months in the northern hemisphere. we cannot provide assurance that seasonality and weather conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our share price may fluctuate significantly. we cannot predict the prices at which our common shares may trade. the market price of our common shares may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; success or failure of our business strategy; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; our ability to obtain third-party financing as needed; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; changes in earnings estimates by us or securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the operating and share price performance of other comparable companies; investor perception of us; natural or other environmental disasters that investors believe may affect us; overall market fluctuations; results from any material litigation, including asbestos claims, government investigations or environmental liabilities; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; and general economic conditions and other external factors. 10 stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common shares. risks relating to legal, regulatory and compliance matters our subsidiaries are party to asbestos-related product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our subsidiaries, along with numerous other companies, are named as defendants in a substantial number of lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. these cases typically involve product liability claims based primarily on allegations of manufacture, sale or distribution of industrial products that either contained asbestos or were attached to or used with asbestos-containing components manufactured by third parties. each case typically names between dozens to hundreds of corporate defendants. historically, our subsidiaries have been identified as defendants in asbestos-related claims. we have experienced an increase in the number of asbestos-related lawsuits over the past several years, including lawsuits by plaintiffs with mesothelioma-related claims. a large percentage of these suits have not presented viable legal claims and, as a result, have been dismissed or withdrawn. our strategy has been, and continues to be, to mount a vigorous defense aimed at having unsubstantiated suits dismissed, and, only where appropriate, settling claims before trial. as of december 31, 2012, there were approximately 1,900 lawsuits pending against our subsidiaries. a lawsuit might include several claims, and we have approximately 2,300 claims outstanding as of december 31, 2012. we cannot predict with certainty the extent to which we will be successful in litigating or otherwise resolving lawsuits in the future and we continue to evaluate different strategies related to asbestos claims filed against us including entity restructuring and judicial relief. unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we currently record an estimated liability related to pending claims and future claims, including related defense costs, based on a number of key assumptions and estimation methodologies. these assumptions are derived from historical claims experience and reflect our expectations about future claim activities. these assumptions about the future may or may not prove accurate, and accordingly, we may incur additional liabilities in the future. a change in one or more of the inputs or the methodology that we use to estimate the asbestos liability could materially change the estimated liability and associated cash flows for pending and future claims. although it is possible that we will incur additional costs for asbestos claims filed beyond what we have currently recorded, we do not believe there is a reasonable basis for estimating those costs at this time. on a quarterly and annual basis, we review and update as appropriate, such estimated asbestos liabilities and assets and the underlying assumptions. such an update could result in a material change in such estimated assets and liabilities. we also record an asset that represents our best estimate of probable recoveries from insurers or other responsible parties for the estimated asbestos liabilities. there are significant assumptions made in developing estimates of asbestos-related recoveries, such as policy triggers, policy or contract interpretation, success in litigation in certain cases, the methodology for allocating claims to policies and the continued solvency of the insurers or other responsible parties. the assumptions underlying the recorded asset may not prove accurate, and as a result, actual performance by our insurers and other responsible parties could result in lower receivables and cash flows expected to reduce our asbestos costs. we believe it is possible that the cost of asbestos claims filed beyond our estimation period, net of expected recoveries, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption laws outside the united states. the fcpa and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the u.s. department of justice ( doj ) and the u.s. securities and exchange commission ( sec ), increased 11 enforcement activity by non-u.s. regulators and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. because many of our customers and end users are involved in infrastructure construction and energy production, they are often subject to increased scrutiny by regulators. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third-party intermediaries. in the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or agents have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the fcpa we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. prior to the merger, the flow control business was subject to investigations by the doj and the sec related to allegations that improper payments were made by the flow control business and other tyco subsidiaries and third-party intermediaries in recent years in violation of the fcpa. tyco reported to the doj and the sec the remedial measures that it had taken in response to the allegations and tyco own internal investigations. as a result of discussions with the doj and sec aimed at resolving these matters, on september 24, 2012, tyco entered into a settlement with the sec and a non-prosecution agreement with the doj, pursuant to which the flow control business is for a three year period subject to yearly reporting to the doj concerning its continuing compliance efforts. as a result, the flow control business may be subject to investigations in other jurisdictions or suffer other criminal or civil penalties or adverse impacts, including being subject to lawsuits brought by private litigants, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our failure to satisfy international trade compliance regulations may adversely affect us. our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. certain of the products we manufacture are dual use products, which are products that may have both civil and military applications, or may otherwise be involved in weapons proliferation, and are often subject to more stringent export controls. from time to time, we obtain or receive information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. our policy mandates strict compliance with u.s. and non-u.s. trade laws applicable to our products. however, even when we are in strict compliance with law and our policies, we may suffer reputational damage if certain of our products are sold through various intermediaries to entities operating in sanctioned countries. when we receive information alleging improper activity, our policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting our findings to relevant governmental authorities. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our policies and procedures will always protect us from actions that would violate u.s. and/or non-u.s. laws. any improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and business prospects. legislative action by the u.s. congress could adversely affect us. legislative action could be taken by the u.s. congress which, if ultimately enacted, could override tax treaties, or modify tax statutes or regulation upon which we rely. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding our incorporation in switzerland or limiting our ability as a swiss company to take advantage of the tax treaties between switzerland and the united states, we could be subject to increased taxation, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods. we are exposed to potential environmental and other laws, liabilities and litigation. we are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing our environmental practices, public and worker health and safety, and the indoor and outdoor environment. compliance with these environmental, health and safety regulations could require us to satisfy environmental liabilities, increase the cost 12 of manufacturing our products or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. any violations of these laws by us could cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities that could harm our operating results and cause our business to suffer. we are also required to comply with various environmental laws and maintain permits, some of which are subject to discretionary renewal from time to time, for many of our businesses and we could suffer if we are unable to renew existing permits or to obtain any additional permits that we may require. compliance with environmental requirements also could require significant operating or capital expenditures or result in significant operational restrictions. we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. we have been named as defendant, target or a potentially responsible party ( prp ) in a number of environmental clean-ups relating to our current or former business units. we have disposed of a number of businesses in recent years and in certain cases, we have retained responsibility and potential liability for certain environmental obligations. we have received claims for indemnification from certain purchasers. we may be named as a prp at other sites in the future for existing business units, as well as both divested and acquired businesses. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. certain environmental laws impose liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. we have projects underway at several current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from our past operations or by other businesses that previously owned or used the properties. the cost of cleanup and other environmental liabilities can be difficult to accurately predict. in addition, environmental requirements change and tend to become more stringent over time. thus, we cannot provide assurance that our eventual environmental clean-up costs and liabilities will not exceed the amount of our current reserves. we are exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. the u.s. congress and federal and state regulatory agencies have been considering legislation and regulatory proposals that would regulate and limit greenhouse gas emissions. it is uncertain whether, when and in what form a federal mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program may be adopted. similarly, certain countries have adopted the kyoto protocol and this and other existing international initiatives or those under consideration could affect our international operations. to the extent our customers, particularly those involved in the oil and gas, power generation, petrochemical processing or petroleum refining industries, are subject to any of these or other similar proposed or newly enacted laws and regulations, we are exposed to risks that the additional costs by customers to comply with such laws and regulations could impact their ability or desire to continue to operate at similar levels in certain jurisdictions as historically seen or as currently anticipated, which could negatively impact their demand for our products and services. in addition, new laws and regulations that might favor the increased use of non-fossil fuels, including nuclear, wind, solar and bio-fuels or that are designed to increase energy efficiency, could dampen demand for oil and gas production or power generation resulting in lower spending by customers for our products and services. these actions could also increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for raw materials and transportation. because it is uncertain what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our results of operations may be negatively impacted by litigation. our businesses expose us to potential litigation, such as product liability claims relating to the design, manufacture and sale of our products. while we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms or that this insurance will provide adequate protection against potential or previously existing liabilities. in 13 addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. successful claims against us for significant amounts could materially and adversely affect our product reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks relating to the distribution and the merger we may not realize the growth opportunities and cost synergies that are anticipated from the merger. the benefits that are expected to result from the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies as a result of the merger. our success in realizing these growth opportunities and cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses. even if we are able to integrate the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities and cost synergies that we currently expect from this integration or that these benefits will be achieved within the anticipated time frame or at all. for example, we may not be able to eliminate duplicative costs. moreover, we may incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses. while we anticipate that certain expenses will be incurred, such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately, and may exceed current estimates. accordingly, the benefits from the merger may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the businesses. the integration of the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses following the merger may present significant challenges. there is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of integrating the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses. these difficulties include: the challenge of integrating the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses while carrying on the ongoing operations of each entity; the necessity of coordinating geographically separate organizations; the challenge of integrating the business cultures of the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses, which may prove to be incompatible; the challenge and cost of integrating the information technology systems of the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses; and the potential difficulty in retaining key executives and personnel of the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses. the process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses. members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our company, service existing customers, attract new customers and develop new products or strategies. if senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses could suffer. there can be no assurance that we will successfully or cost-effectively integrate the pentair, inc. and flow control businesses. the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we share responsibility for certain income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the date of the distribution. in connection with the distribution, we entered into a tax sharing agreement (the 2012 tax sharing agreement ) with tyco and the adt corporation ( adt ), which governs the rights and obligations of adt, tyco and us for certain pre-distribution tax liabilities, including tyco obligations under a separate tax sharing agreement (the 2007 tax sharing agreement ) entered into by tyco, covidien ltd. ( covidien ) and te 14 connectivity ltd. ( te connectivity ) in connection with the 2007 distributions of covidien and te connectivity by tyco (the 2007 separation ). the 2012 tax sharing agreement provides that we, tyco and adt will share (i) certain pre-distribution income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, tyco and adt u.s. income tax returns, and (ii) payments required to be made by tyco with respect to the 2007 tax sharing agreement (the liabilities in clauses (i) and (ii) collectively, shared tax liabilities ). tyco is responsible for the first $500 million of shared tax liabilities. we and adt will share 42% and 58%, respectively, of the next $225 million of shared tax liabilities. we, adt and tyco will share 20%, 27.5% and 52.5%, respectively, of shared tax liabilities above $725 million. the 2007 tax sharing agreement governs the rights and obligations of tyco, covidien and te connectivity with respect to certain pre-2007 separation tax liabilities and certain tax liabilities arising in connection with the 2007 separation. more specifically, tyco, covidien and te connectivity share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to tyco s, covidien and te connectivity u.s. and certain non-u.s. income tax returns and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the 2007 separation. in addition, in the event that the 2007 separation or certain related transactions are determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the 2007 separation by tyco, covidien or te connectivity, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on tyco, covidien or te connectivity as a result thereof. if none of the companies is responsible for such failure, then tyco, covidien and te connectivity would be responsible for such taxes, in the same manner and in the same proportions as other shared tax liabilities under the 2007 tax sharing agreement. costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities are generally shared equally among the parties. with respect to years prior to and including the 2007 separation, tax authorities have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments that are generally subject to the sharing provisions of the 2007 tax sharing agreement and which may require tyco to make a payment to a taxing authority, covidien or te connectivity. with respect to adjustments raised by the irs, although tyco has resolved a substantial number of these adjustments, a few significant items remain open with respect to the audit of the 1997 through 2004 years. as of the date hereof, tyco has not been able to resolve certain open items, which primarily involve the treatment of certain intercompany debt issued during the period, through the irs appeals process. as a result, tyco expects to litigate these matters once it receives the requisite statutory notices from the irs, which is likely to occur within the next six months. however, the ultimate resolution of these matters is uncertain and could result in tyco being responsible for a greater amount than it expects under the 2007 tax sharing agreement. any payment that tyco is required to make under the 2007 tax sharing agreement could result in a material liability for us under the 2012 tax sharing agreement. to the extent we are responsible for any liability under the 2012 tax sharing agreement, and indirectly the 2007 tax sharing agreement, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods. if the merger, distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we, our shareholders or tyco could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. pentair, inc. and tyco received private letter rulings from the irs in connection with the distribution and the merger regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distribution and the merger to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes: the distribution will qualify as tax-free under sections 355 and 361 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares; certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution will qualify for favorable treatment under the code; the merger will qualify as a reorganization under section 368(a) of the code; certain anticipated post-closing transactions will not prevent the tax-free treatment of the distribution or the merger; and section 367(a)(1) of the code will not cause the merger to be taxable to pentair, inc. shareholders (except for a u.s. shareholder who is or will be a five-percent transferee shareholder within the meaning of applicable treasury regulations but who does not enter into a gain recognition agreement with the irs). in addition, tyco received a legal opinion confirming the tax-free status of the distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes 15 and tyco and pentair, inc. received legal opinions to the effect that the merger will qualify as a reorganization under section 368(a) of the code and that section 367(a)(1) of the code will not cause the merger to be taxable to pentair, inc. shareholders (except for a u.s. shareholder who is or will be a five-percent transferee shareholder within the meaning of applicable treasury regulations but who does not enter into a gain recognition agreement with the irs). the private letter rulings and opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from us, tyco and pentair, inc. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution, the internal transactions or the merger should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distribution, the internal transactions or the merger should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in share or asset ownership after the merger. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, the distribution could be treated as a taxable dividend or capital gain to tyco shareholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and tyco shareholders could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. in addition, tyco would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of our common shares distributed to tyco shareholders on the distribution date over tyco tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, tyco could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution are taxable. if the merger ultimately is determined to be taxable, pentair, inc. shareholders would recognize taxable gain or loss on their disposition of pentair, inc. common shares in the merger. under the terms of the 2012 tax sharing agreement, in the event the distribution, the adt distribution, the internal transactions or the merger were determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the distribution by us, adt or tyco, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed as a result thereof. if such failure is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, adt or tyco, then we, adt and tyco would be responsible for any taxes imposed as a result of such determination in the same manner and in the same proportions as we, adt and tyco are responsible for shared tax liabilities. such tax amounts could be significant. in the event that any party to the 2012 tax sharing agreement defaults in its obligation to pay certain taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party taxes. in addition, if another party to the 2012 tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, tyco and adt tax liabilities. if the distribution or the merger are determined to be taxable for swiss withholding or other tax purposes, we could incur significant swiss withholding tax or other tax liabilities. generally, swiss withholding tax of 35% is due on dividends and similar distributions to tyco shareholders, regardless of the place of residency of the shareholder. as of january 1, 2011, distributions to shareholders out of qualifying contributed surplus ( kapitaleinlage ) accumulated on or after january 1, 1997 are exempt from swiss withholding tax if certain conditions are met ( kapitaleinlageprinzip ). tyco has obtained a ruling from the swiss federal tax administration confirming that the distribution qualifies as payment out of such qualifying contributed surplus and no amount will be withheld by tyco when making the distribution. as a condition to closing of the merger, tyco obtained rulings from the swiss federal tax administration confirming: (i) that the merger will be a transaction that is generally tax-free for swiss federal, cantonal, and communal tax purposes (including with respect to swiss stamp tax and swiss withholding tax); (ii) the relevant swiss tax base of an acquisition subsidiary of ours for swiss tax (including federal and cantonal and communal) purposes; (iii) the relevant amount of capital contribution reserves ( kapitaleinlageprinzip ) which will be exempt 16 from swiss withholding tax in the event of a distribution to our shareholders after the merger; and (iv) that no swiss stamp tax will be levied on certain post-merger restructuring transactions. these tax rulings rely on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from tyco. notwithstanding these tax rulings, the swiss federal tax administration could determine on audit that the distribution or the merger or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction for withholding tax or other tax purposes if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated. if the distribution or the merger or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution ultimately are determined to be taxable for withholding tax or other tax purposes, we and tyco could incur material swiss withholding tax or other tax liabilities that could significantly detract from, or eliminate, the benefits of the distribution and the merger. in addition, we could become liable to indemnify tyco for part of any swiss withholding tax liabilities to the extent provided under the 2012 tax sharing agreement. we might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances because of restrictions relating to u.s. federal income tax requirements for tax-free distributions. our ability to engage in desirable strategic transactions or equity issuances could be significantly limited or restricted in order to preserve, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the tax-free nature of the distribution and certain related transactions. even if the distribution otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code, it may result in corporate-level gain to tyco under section 355(e) of the code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our shares or tyco shares are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. any acquisitions or issuances of our shares or tyco shares within two years after the distribution are generally presumed to be part of such a plan, although we or tyco may be able to rebut that presumption. for purposes of this test, the merger might be treated as part of such a plan or series of related transactions, but if so would not, by itself, cause the distribution to be taxable to tyco since pentair, inc. shareholders acquired less than 50% of our common shares in the merger. the change in ownership resulting from the merger, if treated as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution, would be aggregated with other acquisitions or issuances of our shares that occur as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the distribution in determining whether a 50% change in ownership has occurred. the process for determining whether a change of ownership has occurred under the tax rules is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case. if we do not carefully monitor our compliance with these rules, we could inadvertently cause or permit a change of ownership to occur, triggering our obligation to indemnify tyco or adt pursuant to the 2012 tax sharing agreement. to preserve the tax-free treatment to tyco of the distribution, under the 2012 tax sharing agreement, we are prohibited from taking or failing to take any action that prevents the distribution and related transactions from being tax-free. further, for the two-year period following the distribution, without obtaining the consent of tyco and adt, a private letter ruling from the irs or an unqualified opinion of a nationally recognized law firm, we may be prohibited from, among other things: approving or allowing any transaction that results in a change in ownership of more than 35% of our common shares, when combined with any other changes in ownership of our common shares, redeeming equity securities, selling or otherwise disposing of more than 35% of our assets, or engaging in certain internal transactions. these restrictions may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. moreover, the 2012 tax sharing agreement also 17 provides that we are responsible for any taxes imposed on tyco or any of its affiliates or on adt or any of its affiliates as a result of the failure of the distribution or the internal transactions to qualify for favorable treatment under the code if such failure is attributable to certain actions taken after the distribution by or in respect of us, any of our affiliates or our shareholders. our accounting and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared to quickly integrate and update the financial reporting systems of the flow control business. the financial results of the flow control business previously were included within the consolidated results of tyco, and were not directly subject to the reporting and other requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act ). as a result of the distribution and the merger, we are subject to reporting and other obligations under the exchange act. the exchange act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. we are responsible for ensuring that all aspects of our business comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the sarbanes-oxley act ), which will require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and a report by an independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. although our management has experience with these reporting and related obligations, ensuring compliance with respect to the flow control business may place significant demands on management, administrative and operational resources, including accounting systems and resources. our report on our internal control over financial reporting ( icfr ) in the annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2012 includes a scope exception for the acquired flow control business because it is a significant acquisition for which our management would otherwise have had only three months to evaluate and implement icfr. under the sarbanes-oxley act, we are required to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. to comply with these requirements with respect to the flow control business, we may need to upgrade our systems; implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; and hire additional accounting and finance staff. it is expected that we will incur annual expenses for the purpose of addressing these requirements, and those expenses may be significant. if we are unable to upgrade its financial and management controls, reporting systems, information technology systems and procedures in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies under the exchange act could be impaired. any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks relating to our liquidity disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect us, our customers and our suppliers by increasing funding costs or reducing availability of credit. in the normal course of our business, we may access credit markets for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, acquisitions, additions to working capital, repurchase of common shares, capital expenditures and investments in our subsidiaries. although we expect to have sufficient liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets, which have occurred in the past and made financing terms for borrowers unattractive or unavailable. these factors may make it more difficult or expensive for us to access credit markets if the need arises. in addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for prospective customers to commence new projects, as customers and suppliers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. disruptions in the financial markets have had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slowdown in general economic activity that may continue to adversely affect our businesses. these disruptions may have other unknown adverse effects. one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 18 covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our credit agreements and indentures contain customary financial covenants. our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and, in the case of credit facility lenders, terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, which could affect our financial condition, and may decrease our profitability. as of december 31, 2012, we had $2.5 billion of total debt outstanding. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, subject to restrictions in our debt agreements. if our cash flow from operations is less than we anticipate, or if our cash requirements are more than we expect, we may require more financing. however, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. if we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of additional capital shares, the terms of the debt or capital shares issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common shares, particularly in the event of liquidation. the terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. if we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, the percentage ownership of existing shareholders in our company would decline. if we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, our financial condition could be adversely affected. also, regardless of the terms of our financings, the amount of our shares that we can issue may be limited because the issuance of our shares may cause the distribution to be a taxable event for tyco under section 355(e) of the code, and under the 2012 tax sharing agreement, we could be required to indemnify tyco for that tax. see discussion under we might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances following the distribution and the merger because of restrictions relating to u.s. federal income tax requirements for tax-free distributions. our leverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our existing debt as well as any future debt that we may incur, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. if we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due, we may be forced to sell assets or take other disadvantageous actions, including (i) reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes or (ii) dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. the lenders who hold such debt could also accelerate amounts due, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of any of our other debt. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation in switzerland our status as a swiss corporation may limit our flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management and may cause us to be unable to make distributions without subjecting our shareholders to swiss withholding tax. swiss law allows shareholders to authorize share capital that can be issued by the board of directors without additional shareholder approval. this authorization is limited to 50% of the existing registered share capital and must be renewed by the shareholders every two years. additionally, subject to specified exceptions, swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe to any new issuance of shares. swiss law also does not provide as much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares as the laws of 19 some other jurisdictions. swiss law also reserves for approval by shareholders certain corporate actions over which a board of directors would have authority in some other jurisdictions. these swiss law requirements relating to our capital management may limit our flexibility, and situations may arise where greater flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders. under swiss law, a swiss corporation may pay dividends only if the corporation has sufficient distributable profits from previous fiscal years, or if the corporation has distributable reserves, each as evidenced by its audited statutory balance sheet. distributable reserves are generally recorded either as free reserves or as qualifying contributed surplus (contributions received from shareholders) in capital contribution reserve. distributions may be made out of registered share capital the aggregate par value of a company registered shares only by way of a capital reduction. after the merger, the amount available for future dividends or capital reductions from reserve from capital contributions on a swiss withholding tax free basis is chf 8.7 billion. we are awaiting approval from the swiss tax authorities of the reserve from capital contributions. we will not be able to pay dividends or make other distributions to shareholders on a swiss withholding tax free basis in excess of that amount unless we increase our share capital or our reserves from capital contributions. we would also be able to pay dividends out of distributable profits or freely distributable reserves, but such dividends would be subject to swiss withholding tax. there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient distributable profits, free reserves, reserves from capital contributions or registered share capital to pay a dividend or effect a capital reduction or that we will be able to meet the other legal requirements for dividend payments or distributions as a result of capital reductions. generally, swiss withholding tax of 35% is due on dividends and similar distributions to our shareholders, regardless of the place of residency of the shareholder, unless the distribution is made to shareholders out of (i) a reduction of par value or (ii) assuming certain conditions are met, qualifying contributed surplus accumulated on or after january 1, 1997. a u.s. holder that qualifies for benefits under the convention between the united states of america and the swiss confederation for the avoidance of double taxation with respect to taxes on income (the u.s.-swiss treaty ) may apply for a refund of the tax withheld in excess of the 15% treaty rate (or in excess of the 5% reduced treaty rate for qualifying corporate shareholders with at least 10% participation in our voting shares, or for a full refund in the case of qualified pension funds). there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient qualifying contributed surplus to pay dividends free from swiss withholding tax or that swiss withholding rules will not be changed in the future. in addition, there can be no assurance that the current swiss law with respect to distributions out of qualifying contributed surplus will not be changed or that a change in swiss law will not adversely affect us or our shareholders, in particular as a result of distributions out of qualifying contributed surplus becoming subject to additional corporate law or other restrictions. there are currently motions pending in the swiss parliament that purport to limit the distribution of qualifying contributed surplus. in addition, over the long term, the amount of par value available to us for par value reductions or qualifying contributed surplus available to us to pay out as distributions is limited. if we are unable to make a distribution through a reduction in par value or out of qualifying contributed surplus, we may not be able to make distributions without subjecting our shareholders to swiss withholding taxes. under present swiss tax laws, repurchases of shares for the purposes of cancellation are treated as a partial liquidation subject to 35% swiss withholding tax on the difference between the repurchase price and the par value except, since january 1, 2011, to the extent attributable to qualifying contributed surplus ( kapitaleinlagereserven ) if any. if, and to the extent that, the repurchase of shares is out of retained earnings or other taxable reserves, the swiss withholding tax becomes due. no partial liquidation treatment applies and no withholding tax is triggered if the shares are not repurchased for cancellation but held by us as treasury shares. however, should we not resell such treasury shares within six years, the withholding tax becomes due at the end of the six year period. although we may follow a share repurchase process for future share repurchases, if any, similar to a second trading line on the six swiss exchange in which swiss institutional investors sell shares to us and are generally able to receive a refund of the swiss withholding tax, if we are unable to use this process successfully, we may 20 not be able to repurchase shares for the purposes of capital reduction without triggering swiss withholding tax if and to the extent that the repurchase of shares is made out of retained earnings or other taxable reserves. no withholding tax would be applicable if and to the extent that tax-free qualifying contributed surplus is attributable to the share repurchase. changes in the u.s. dollar/swiss franc exchange rate could limit the amount of dividends authorized on our common shares, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to pay dividends on our common shares. prior to the consummation of the merger, our board of directors proposed, and tyco as our sole shareholder authorized, us to pay quarterly cash dividends through the first annual general meeting of our shareholders in 2013. the authorization provides that a dividend will be made out of our contributed surplus equity position in our statutory accounts to our shareholders in the amount of $0.23 for the second quarter of 2013. the deduction to our contributed surplus in our statutory accounts, which is required to be made in swiss francs, will be determined based on the aggregate amount of the dividend and will be calculated based on the u.s. dollar/swiss franc exchange rate in effect on september 14, 2012. the u.s. dollar amount of the dividend will be capped at an amount such that the aggregate reduction to our contributed surplus will not exceed 240 million swiss francs. to the extent that a dividend payment would exceed the cap, the u.s. dollar per share amount of the current or future dividends will be reduced on a pro rata basis so that the aggregate amount of all dividends paid does not exceed the cap. in addition, the aggregate reduction in contributed surplus will be increased for any shares issued, and decreased for any shares acquired, after september 14, 2012 and before the record date for the applicable dividend payment. any future dividends that may be proposed by our board of directors will be subject to approval by our shareholders at our annual general meeting. there can be no assurance that our shareholders will approve dividends. whether our board of directors exercises its discretion to propose any dividends to holders of our common shares will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our business, covenants associated with debt obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay any dividend in the future. swiss laws differ from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. because of differences between swiss law and u.s. state and federal laws and differences between the governing documents of swiss companies and those incorporated in the u.s., it may not be possible to enforce in switzerland court judgments obtained in the united states against us based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the united states. as a result, in a lawsuit based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws, u.s. investors may find it difficult to: effect service within the united states upon us or our directors and officers located outside the united states; enforce judgments obtained against those persons in u.s. courts or in courts in jurisdictions outside the united states; and enforce against those persons in switzerland, whether in original actions or in actions for the enforcement of judgments of u.s. courts, civil liabilities based solely upon the u.s. federal or state securities laws. original actions against persons in switzerland based solely upon the u.s. federal or state securities laws are governed, among other things, by the principles set forth in the swiss federal act on private international law. this statute provides that the application of provisions of non-swiss law by the courts in switzerland shall be precluded if the result was incompatible with swiss public policy. also, mandatory provisions of swiss law may be applicable regardless of any other law that would otherwise apply. 21 switzerland and the united states do not have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition of and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the recognition and enforcement of a judgment of the courts of the united states in switzerland is governed by the principles set forth in the swiss federal act on private international law. this statute provides in principle that a judgment rendered by a non-swiss court may be enforced in switzerland only if: the non-swiss court had jurisdiction pursuant to the swiss federal act on private international law; the judgment of such non-swiss court has become final and non-appealable; the judgment does not contravene swiss public policy; the court procedures and the service of documents leading to the judgment were in accordance with the due process of law; and no proceeding involving the same position and the same subject matter was first brought in switzerland, or adjudicated in switzerland, or that it was earlier adjudicated in a third state and this decision is recognizable in switzerland. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53