risk factors 26 risk factors forward-looking statements and risk factors this section discusses the most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial condition. it does not describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our industry or ownership of our securities. if any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently think are not material, actually occur, we could be materially adversely affected. in that event, the value of our securities could decline. this annual report on form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements that constitute forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the federal securities laws. these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those regarding: the possible expansion of our portfolio, including our ability to close our anticipated acquisitions and investments on currently anticipated terms, or within currently anticipated timeframes, or at all; the sale of properties; the performance of our operators/tenants and properties; our ability to enter into agreements with new viable tenants for vacant space or for properties that we take back from financially troubled tenants, if any; our occupancy rates; our ability to acquire, develop and/or manage properties; our ability to make distributions to stockholders; 27 our policies and plans regarding investments, financings and other matters; our ability to successfully manage the risks associated with international expansion and operations; our tax status as a real estate investment trust; our critical accounting policies; our ability to appropriately balance the use of debt and equity; our ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds; and our ability to meet our earnings guidance. when we use words such as may, will, intend, should, believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate or similar expressions, we are making forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. our expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from our expectations. this may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital; issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government investigations and punitive settlements and operators'/tenants' difficulty in cost-effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the health care, seniors housing and life science industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; our ability to transition or sell facilities with profitable results; the failure to make new investments as and when anticipated; acts of god affecting our properties; our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; our ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies; the cooperation of joint venture partners; government regulations affecting medicare and medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements; regulatory approval and market acceptance of the products and technologies of life science tenants; liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future acquisitions; environmental laws affecting our properties; 28 changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting; the movement of u.s. and foreign currency exchange rates; qualification as a reit; key management personnel recruitment and retention; and the risks described below: risk factors related to our operators' revenues and expenses our operators' revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, private pay rates, and medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable. expenses for these facilities are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. operating costs continue to increase for our operators. to the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. to the extent the value of such property is reduced, we may need to record an impairment for such asset. furthermore, if we determine to dispose of an underperforming property, such sale may result in a loss. any such impairment or loss on sale would negatively affect our financial results. the continued weakened economy may have an adverse effect on our operators and tenants, including their ability to access credit or maintain occupancy and/or private pay rates. if the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our operators are materially adversely impacted by economic conditions, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected. increased competition may affect our operators' ability to meet their obligations to us the operators of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators of properties and other health care providers that provide comparable services. we cannot be certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. our operators are expected to encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses. risk factors related to obligor bankruptcies we are exposed to the risk that our obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in an obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that an obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons. although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. an obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies. we may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new tenant. in some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. in some of those situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. if we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected. transfers of health care facilities may require regulatory approvals and these facilities may not have efficient alternative uses transfers of health care facilities to successor operators frequently are subject to regulatory approvals or notifications, including, but not limited to, change of ownership approvals under certificate of need ( con ) or determination of need laws, state licensure laws and medicare and medicaid provider arrangements, that are not required for transfers of other types of real estate. the replacement of a health care facility operator could be delayed by the approval process of any federal, state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. alternatively, given the specialized nature of our facilities, we may be required to spend substantial time and funds to adapt these properties to other uses. if we are unable 29 to timely transfer properties to successor operators or find efficient alternative uses, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected. risk factors related to government regulations some of our obligors' businesses are affected by government reimbursement. to the extent that an operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from government payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, court decisions, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing government investigations and audits at such property. in recent years, government payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures. health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives reimbursement from medicare, medicaid or private payors. significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an obligor's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor to meet its obligations to us. see item 1 business certain government regulations reimbursement above. our operators and tenants generally are subject to varying levels of federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards. our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension, decertification or exclusion from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. such actions may have an effect on our operators' or tenants' ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. see item 1 business certain government regulations other related laws above. many of our properties may require a license, registration, and/or con to operate. failure to obtain a license, registration, or con, or loss of a required license, registration, or con would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. these events could materially adversely affect our operators' or tenants' ability to make rent payments to us. state and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a con or other similar approval from a state agency. see item 1 business certain government regulations licensing and certification above. the patient protection and affordable care act of 2010, as modified by the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (collectively, the health reform laws ), provides states with an increased federal medical assistance percentage under certain conditions. on june 28, 2012, the united states supreme court upheld the individual mandate of the health reform laws but partially invalidated the expansion of medicaid. the ruling on medicaid expansion will allow states not to participate in the expansion and to forego funding for the medicaid expansion without losing their existing medicaid funding. given that the federal government substantially funds the medicaid expansion, it is unclear whether any state will pursue this option, although at least some appear to be considering this option at this time. the participation by states in the medicaid expansion could have the dual effect of increasing our tenants' revenues, through new patients, but further straining state budgets. while the federal government will pay for approximately 100% of those additional costs from 2014 to 2016, states will be expected to begin paying for part of those additional costs in 2017. with increasingly strained budgets, it is unclear how states will pay their share of these additional medicaid costs and what other health care expenditures could be reduced as a result. a significant reduction in other health care related spending by states to pay for increased medicaid costs could affect our tenants' revenue streams. see item 1 business certain government regulations reimbursement above and item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations health care industry health reform laws below. more generally, and because of the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory environment for health care products and services, and in light of existing federal deficit and budgetary concerns, we cannot predict the impact that broad-based, far-reaching legislative or regulatory changes could have on the u.s. economy, our business or that of our tenants. risk factors related to liability claims and insurance costs in recent years, skilled nursing and seniors housing operators have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims. as a result, general and professional liability costs have increased in some markets. general and professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the property operators' future 30 operations, cash flows and financial condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the property operators' ability to meet their obligations to us. unfavorable resolution of pending and future litigation matters and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. from time to time, we may be directly involved in a number of legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. we may also be named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our actions or the actions of our operators/tenants or managers in which such operators/tenants or managers have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses. an unfavorable resolution of pending or future litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management. there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, pending or future litigation. in addition, pending litigation or future litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations. risk factors related to acquisitions we are exposed to the risk that some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. we could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. if we agree to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project. such expenditures may negatively affect our results of operations. furthermore, there can be no assurance that our anticipated acquisitions and investments, the completion of which is subject to various conditions, will be consummated in accordance with anticipated timing, on anticipated terms, or at all. risk factors related to joint ventures we have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other persons or entities. joint venture investments involve risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including the possibility that our partner might become insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when due or otherwise fail to meet its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; that our partner might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged in a dispute with our partner, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such disputes and could have an adverse impact on the operations and profitability of the joint venture; and that our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests. in addition, our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted. in some instances, we and/or our partner may have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner's interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. our ability to acquire our partner's interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. in such event, we may be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. joint ventures may require us to share decision-making authority with our partners, which could limit our ability to control the properties in the joint ventures. even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions may require partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition or financing of a property. risk factors related to our seniors housing operating properties we are exposed to various operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. these risks include fluctuations in occupancy, medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates; economic conditions; competition; federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; the availability and increases in cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage; state regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; the availability and increases in the cost of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise). any one or a combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue and operations. risk factors related to life science facilities our tenants in the life science industry face high levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty that may adversely affect their ability to make payments to us. research, development and clinical testing of products and technologies can be very expensive and sources of funds may not be available to our life science tenants in the future. the products and technologies that are developed and 31 manufactured by our life science tenants may require regulatory approval prior to being made, marketed, sold and used. the regulatory process can be costly, long and unpredictable. even after a tenant gains regulatory approval and market acceptance, the product still presents regulatory and liability risks, such as safety concerns, competition from new products and eventually the expiration of patent protection. these factors may affect the ability of our life science tenants to make timely payments to us, which may adversely affect our revenue and operations. risk factors related to indebtedness permanent financing for our investments is typically provided through a combination of public offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt. the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or (4) negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the rating agencies. our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments. these defaults could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, adverse economic conditions may impact the availability of additional funds or could cause the terms on which we are able to borrow additional funds to become unfavorable. in those circumstances, we may be required to raise additional equity in the capital markets. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions and the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of the shares of our capital stock. we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. risk factors related to our credit ratings we plan to manage the company to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. risk factors related to swaps we enter into interest rate swap agreements from time to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate volatility. these swap agreements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. when we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a risk that we will not complete the long-term borrowing against which the swap is intended to hedge. if such events occur, our results of operations may be adversely affected. risk factors related to environmental laws under various federal and state laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. we may become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person's relationship to the property. our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property. moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. those assessments are designed to meet the all appropriate inquiry standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material environmental contamination. however, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors. risk factors related to facilities that require entrance fees 32 certain of our seniors housing facilities require the payment of an upfront entrance fee by the resident, a portion of which may be refundable by the operator. some of these facilities are subject to substantial oversight by state regulators relating to these funds. as a result of this oversight, residents of these facilities may have a variety of rights, including, for example, the right to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time and certain lien rights. the oversight and rights of residents within these facilities may have an effect on the revenue or operations of the operators of such facilities and therefore may negatively impact us. risk factors related to facilities under construction or development at any given time, we may be in the process of constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will require a con and license before they can be utilized by the operator for their intended use. the operator also may need to obtain medicare and medicaid certification and enter into medicare and medicaid provider agreements and/or third party payor contracts. in the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary con, licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary provider agreements or contracts or we find and contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use and the necessary provider agreements or contracts. in connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. these factors could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. in addition, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may not be able to complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs. additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such distributions. newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. in deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. in particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy, rental rates and capital costs. if our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate as a result of increases in capital costs or other factors, the property may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. additionally, we may acquire new properties that are not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with that property. we do not know if our tenants will renew their existing leases, and if they do not, we may be unable to lease the properties on as favorable terms, or at all we cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times. if these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties or sell them. there can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground leases we have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. as the lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us. illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties real estate investments are relatively illiquid. our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. no assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could 33 adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and health care industries. a downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. risk factors related to reinvestment of sale proceeds from time to time, we will have cash available from (1) the proceeds of sales of our securities, (2) principal payments on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. in order to maintain current revenues and continue generating attractive returns, we expect to re-invest these proceeds in a timely manner. we compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. this competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. failure to properly manage our rapid growth could distract our management or increase our expenses we have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to continue this rapid growth in the future. this growth has resulted in increased levels of responsibility for our management. future property acquisitions could place significant additional demands on, and require us to expand, our management, resources and personnel. our failure to manage any such rapid growth effectively could harm our business and, in particular, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to stockholders. our growth could also increase our capital requirements, which may require us to issue potentially dilutive equity securities and incur additional debt. ownership of property outside the united states may subject us to different or greater risks than those associated with our domestic operations we have operations in canada and the united kingdom. international development, ownership, and operating activities involve risks that are different from those we face with respect to our domestic properties and operations. these risks include, but are not limited to, any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a reit; challenges with respect to the repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; changes in foreign political, regulatory, and economic conditions, including regionally, nationally, and locally; challenges in managing international operations; challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to real estate, corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment and legal proceedings; foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in countries; differences in lending practices and the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide financing; regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability; and changes in applicable laws and regulations in the united states that affect foreign operations. if we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with international expansion and operations, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. risk factors related to changes in currency exchange rates as we expand our operations internationally, currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial position. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as the canadian dollar and the british pound. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions and/or obtain local currency mortgage debt in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, we cannot assure you that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on us. we might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit we intend to operate as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), and believe we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. if we lose our status as a reit, we will face serious income tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders because: we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to u.s. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a reit for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. 34 since reit qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of u.s. federal and other income taxes owed. a reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. if we do not qualify as a reit, we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-reit is not required to pay dividends to stockholders in order to maintain reit status or avoid an excise tax. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations for a discussion of the provisions of the code that apply to us and the effects of failure to qualify as a reit. in addition, if we fail to qualify as a reit, all distributions to stockholders would continue to be treated as dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction, and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to long-term capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 20%) with respect to distributions. as a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a reit. although we believe that we qualify as a reit, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations included in this annual report on form 10-k. the 90% annual distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions to comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to reits and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit annual distribution requirements included in this annual report on form 10-k. although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the reit distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement, or we may decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. this may be due to timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. in addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. in the event that timing differences occur, or we deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in another transaction intended to enable us to meet the reit distribution requirements. this may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations. the lease of qualified health care properties to a taxable reit subsidiary is subject to special requirements we lease certain qualified health care properties to taxable reit subsidiaries (or limited liability companies of which the taxable reit subsidiaries are members), which lessees contract with managers (or related parties) to manage the health care operations at these properties. the rents from this taxable reit subsidiary lessee structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property if (1) they are paid pursuant to an arms-length lease of a qualified health care property with a taxable reit subsidiary and (2) the manager qualifies as an eligible independent contractor (as defined in the code). if any of these conditions are not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit income tests. if certain sale-leaseback transactions are not characterized by the internal revenue service as true leases, we may be subject to adverse tax consequences we have purchased certain properties and leased them back to the sellers of such properties, and we may enter into similar transactions in the future. we intend for any such sale-leaseback transaction to be structured in such a manner that the lease will be characterized as a true lease, thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for u.s. federal income tax purposes. however, depending on the terms of any specific transaction, the internal revenue service might take the position that the transaction is not a true lease but is more properly treated in some other manner. in the event any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and successfully re-characterized by the internal revenue service, we would not be entitled to claim the deductions for depreciation and 35 cost recovery generally available to an owner of property. furthermore, if a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the reit asset tests or income tests and, consequently, could lose our reit status effective with the year of re-characterization. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit asset tests and income tests. alternatively, the amount of our reit taxable income could be recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet the reit annual distribution requirements for a taxable year. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit annual distribution requirements. other risk factors we are also subject to other risks. first, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (restrictions on share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. additionally, we are dependent on key personnel. although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an adverse impact on our operations. we believe that losing more than one could have a material adverse impact on our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we seek to mitigate the underlying foreign currency exposures with gains and losses on derivative contracts hedging these exposures. we seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. we may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. these decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. this section is presented to provide a discussion of the risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates. we historically borrow on our primary unsecured line of credit arrangement to acquire, construct or make loans relating to health care and seniors housing properties. then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under our unsecured line of credit arrangements. a change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt. changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt or equity or repaid by the sale of assets. to illustrate the impact of changes in the interest rate markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our fixed rate debt instruments whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates to determine the instruments' change in fair value. the following table summarizes the analysis performed as of the dates indicated (in thousands): december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 principal change in principal change in balance fair value balance fair value senior unsecured notes (1) $ 6,145,457 $ (451,478) $ 4,464,927 $ (342,460) secured debt 2,024,454 (96,290) 1,693,283 (82,583) totals $ 8,169,911 $ (547,768) $ 6,158,210 $ (425,043) (1) 2012 amounts include the canadian denominated unsecured term loan. our variable rate debt, including our unsecured line of credit arrangements, is reflected at fair value. at december 31, 2012, we had no amounts outstanding related to our variable rate lines of credit and $276,006,000 outstanding related to our variable rate secured debt. assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $2,760,000. at december 31, 2011, we had $610,000,000 outstanding related to our variable rate line of credit and $415,101,000 outstanding related to our variable rate secured debt. assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have resulted in increased annual interest expense of $10,251,000. see note 11 of our consolidated financial statements for information on our derivative instruments. we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. the majority of our borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited. for additional information regarding fair values of financial instruments, see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and note 16 to our audited consolidated financial statements. 70risk factors this section discusses the most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial condition. it does not describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our industry or ownership of our securities. if any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently think are not material, actually occur, we could be materially adversely affected. in that event, the value of our securities could decline. we group these risk factors into three categories: risks arising from our business; risks arising from our capital structure; and risks arising from our status as a reit. risks arising from our business our investments in and acquisitions of health care and seniors housing properties may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our expectations we are exposed to the risk that some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. we could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. if we agree to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project. such expenditures may negatively affect our results of operations. furthermore, there can be no assurance that our anticipated acquisitions and investments, the completion of which is subject to various conditions, will be consummated in accordance with anticipated timing, on anticipated terms, or at all. we also may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 31 our investments in joint ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of exclusive control over these investments, our partners' insolvency or failure to meet its obligations and disputes between us and our partners we have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other persons or entities. joint venture investments involve risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including the possibility that our partner might become insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when due or otherwise fail to meet its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; that our partner might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged in a dispute with our partner, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such disputes and could have an adverse impact on the operations and profitability of the joint venture; and that our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests. in addition, our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted. in some instances, we and/or our partner may have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner's interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. our ability to acquire our partner's interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. in such event, we may be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. joint ventures may require us to share decision-making authority with our partners, which could limit our ability to control the properties in the joint ventures. even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions may require partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition or financing of a property. we are exposed to operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that could adversely affect our revenue and operations we are exposed to various operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. these risks include fluctuations in occupancy, medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates; economic conditions; competition; federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; the availability and increases in cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage; state regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; and the availability and increases in the cost of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise). any one or a combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue and operations. decreases in our operators' revenues or increases in our operators' expenses could affect our operators' ability to make payments to us our operators' revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, private pay rates, and medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable. expenses for these facilities are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. operating costs continue to increase for our operators. to the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. to the extent the value of such property is reduced, we may need to record an impairment for such asset. furthermore, if we determine to dispose of an underperforming property, such sale may result in a loss. any such impairment or loss on sale would negatively affect our financial results. the continued weakened economy may also have an adverse effect on our operators and tenants, including their ability to access credit or maintain occupancy and/or private pay rates. if the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our operators are materially adversely impacted by economic conditions, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected. increased competition may affect our operators' ability to meet their obligations to us the operators of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators of properties and other health care providers that provide comparable services. we cannot be certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. our operators are expected to encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses. the insolvency or bankruptcy of our obligors may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition we are exposed to the risk that our obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in an obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that an obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons. although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant, demand immediate 32 payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. an obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies. we may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new tenant. in some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. in some of those situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. if we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected. we may not be able to timely reinvest our sale proceeds on terms acceptable to us from time to time, we will have cash available from (1) the proceeds of sales of our securities, (2) principal payments on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. in order to maintain current revenues and continue generating attractive returns, we expect to re-invest these proceeds in a timely manner. we compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. this competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. failure to properly manage our rapid growth could distract our management or increase our expenses we have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to continue this rapid growth in the future. this growth has resulted in increased levels of responsibility for our management. future property acquisitions could place significant additional demands on, and require us to expand, our management, resources and personnel. our failure to manage any such rapid growth effectively could harm our business and, in particular, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to stockholders. our growth could also increase our capital requirements, which may require us to issue potentially dilutive equity securities and incur additional debt. we depend on genesis healthcare, llc ( genesis ) for a significant portion of our revenues and any inability or unwillingness by genesis to satisfy its obligations under its agreements with us could adversely affect us the properties we lease to genesis account for a significant portion of our revenues, and because our leases with genesis are triple-net leases, we also depend on genesis to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair expenses in connection with the leased properties. we cannot assure you that genesis will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable it to make rental payments to us or to otherwise satisfy its obligations under our leases, and any inability or unwillingness by genesis to do so could have an adverse effect on us. genesis has also agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with its business, and we cannot assure you that genesis will have sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable it to satisfy its indemnification obligations. the properties managed by sunrise senior living, llc account for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income and any adverse developments in its business or financial condition could adversely affect us sunrise senior living, llc manages our entire sunrise property portfolio, which as of december 31, 2013, consisted of 125 seniors housing properties. these properties account for a significant portion of our revenues, and we rely on sunrise senior living, llc to manage these properties efficiently and effectively. any adverse developments in sunrise senior living, llc's business or financial condition could impair its ability to manage our properties efficiently and effectively, which could adversely affect us. ownership of property outside the united states may subject us to different or greater risks than those associated with our domestic operations we have operations in canada and the united kingdom. international development, ownership, and operating activities involve risks that are different from those we face with respect to our domestic properties and operations. these risks include, but are not limited to, any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a reit; challenges with respect to the repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; changes in foreign political, regulatory, and economic conditions, including regionally, nationally, and locally; challenges in managing international operations; challenges of complying 33 with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to real estate, corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment and legal proceedings; foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in countries; differences in lending practices and the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide financing; regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability; and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations in the united states that affect foreign operations, including, but not limited to, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. if we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with international expansion and operations, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. we do not know if our tenants will renew their existing leases, and if they do not, we may be unable to lease the properties on as favorable terms, or at all we cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times. if these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties or sell them. there can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. our operators' may not have the necessary insurance coverage to insure adequately against losses in recent years, skilled nursing and seniors housing operators have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims. as a result, general and professional liability costs have increased in some markets. general and professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the property operators' future operations, cash flows and financial condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the property operators' ability to meet their obligations to us. our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground leases we have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. as the lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us. the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as medicare or medicaid, could have a material adverse effect on our obligors' liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect our obligors' ability to meet their obligations to us some of our obligors' businesses are affected by government reimbursement. to the extent that an operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from government payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, court decisions, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing government investigations and audits at such property. in recent years, government payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures. health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives reimbursement from medicare, medicaid or private payors. significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an obligor's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor to meet its obligations to us. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states reimbursement above. the patient protection and affordable care act of 2010, as modified by the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (collectively, the health reform laws ), provides those states that expand their medicaid coverage to otherwise eligible state residents with incomes at or below 138% of the federal poverty level with an increased federal medical assistance percentage, effective january 1, 2014, when certain conditions are met. on june 28, 2012, the united states supreme court upheld the individual mandate of the health reform laws but partially invalidated the expansion of medicaid. the ruling on medicaid expansion allows states to elect not to participate in the expansion and to forego funding for the medicaid expansion without losing their existing medicaid funding. given that the federal government substantially funds the medicaid expansion, it is unclear how many states will ultimately pursue this option, although, as of late january 2014, roughly half of the states have made statements or otherwise indicated that they do not intend to expand medicaid coverage at this time. the participation by states in the medicaid expansion could have the 34 dual effect of increasing our tenants' revenues, through new patients, but further straining state budgets and their ability to pay our tenants. while the federal government will pay for approximately 100% of those additional costs from 2014 to 2016, states will be expected to pay for part of those additional costs beginning in 2017. in light of this, at least one state that has passed legislation to allow the state to expand its medicaid coverage has included sunset provisions in the legislation that require that the expanded benefits be reduced or eliminated if the federal government's funding for the program is decreased or eliminated, permitting the state to re-visit the issue once it begins to share financial responsibility for the expansion. with increasingly strained budgets, it is unclear how states that do not include such sunset provisions will pay their share of these additional medicaid costs and what other health care expenditures could be reduced as a result. a significant reduction in other health care related spending by states to pay for increased medicaid costs could affect our tenants' revenue streams. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states reimbursement above and item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations health care industry health reform laws below. more generally, and because of the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory environment for health care products and services, and in light of existing federal deficit and budgetary concerns, we cannot predict the impact that broad-based, far-reaching legislative or regulatory changes could have on the u.s. economy, our business or that of our operators and tenants. our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards could adversely affect such operators' or tenants' operations, which could adversely affect our operators' and tenants' ability to meet their obligations to us our operators and tenants generally are subject to varying levels of federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards. our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension, decertification or exclusion from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. such actions may have an effect on our operators' or tenants' ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states other related laws above. many of our properties may require a license, registration, and/or certificate of need ( con ) to operate. failure to obtain a license, registration, or con, or loss of a required license, registration, or con would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. these events could materially adversely affect our operators' or tenants' ability to make rent payments to us. state and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a con or other similar approval from a state agency. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states licensing and certification above. illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties real estate investments are relatively illiquid. our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. no assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and health care industries. a downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. unfavorable resolution of pending and future litigation matters and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition from time to time, we may be directly involved in a number of legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. we may also be named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our actions or the actions of our operators/tenants or managers in which such operators/tenants or managers have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses. an unfavorable resolution of pending or future litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management. there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, pending or future litigation. in addition, pending litigation or future litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations. development, redevelopment and construction risks could affect our profitability 35 at any given time, we may be in the process of constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will require a con and license before they can be utilized by the operator for their intended use. the operator also may need to obtain medicare and medicaid certification and enter into medicare and medicaid provider agreements and/or third party payor contracts. in the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary con, licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary provider agreements or contracts or we find and contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use and the necessary provider agreements or contracts. in connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. these factors could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. in addition, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may not be able to complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs. additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such distributions. newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. in deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. in particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy, rental rates and capital costs. if our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate as a result of increases in capital costs or other factors, the property may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. additionally, we may acquire new properties that are not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with that property. we may experience losses caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters, which could result in an increase of our or our tenants' cost of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues or a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property we maintain or require our tenants to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage, and we continually review our insurance programs and requirements. however, a large number of our properties are located in areas particularly susceptible to revenue loss, cost increase or damage caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes and floods. we believe, given current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside consultants, that our and our tenants' insurance coverage is appropriate to cover reasonably anticipated losses that may be caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, floods and other severe weather conditions and natural disasters. nevertheless, we are always subject to the risk that such insurance will not fully cover all losses and, depending on the severity of the event and the impact on our properties, such insurance may not cover a significant portion of the losses. these losses may lead to an increase of our and our tenants' cost of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues from an affected property and a loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in an affected property. in addition, we or our tenants may not purchase insurance under certain circumstances if the cost of insurance exceeds, in our or our tenants' judgment, the value of the coverage relative to the risk of loss. we may incur costs to remediate environmental contamination at our properties, which could have an adverse effect on our or our obligors' business or financial condition under various federal and state laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. we may become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person's relationship to the property. our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property. moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. those assessments are designed to meet the all appropriate inquiry standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material environmental contamination. however, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors. 36 cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business and result in the loss of confidential information our business is at risk from and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential data, and other electronic security breaches. such cyber attacks can range from individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems to more sophisticated security threats. while we employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing a cyber attack. cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business and compromise the confidential information of our employees, operators and tenants. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (restrictions on share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed we are dependent on key personnel. although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an adverse impact on our operations. we believe that losing more than one could have a material adverse impact on our business. risks arising from our capital structure we may become more leveraged permanent financing for our investments is typically provided through a combination of public offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt. the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or (4) negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the rating agencies. we are subject to covenants in our debt agreements that may restrict or limit our operations and acquisitions and our failure to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments. these defaults could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. limitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions; the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; the market price of the shares of our capital stock and the credit ratings of our debt securities; the financial stability of our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us or their willingness to make additional loans to us; changes in the credit ratings on u.s. government debt securities; or default or delay in payment by the united states of its obligations. if our access to capital is limited by these factors or other factors, it could negatively impact our ability to acquire properties, repay or refinance our indebtedness, fund operations or make distributions to our stockholders. also, the federal government's failure to increase the amount of debt that it is statutorily permitted to incur as needed to meet its future financial commitments or a downgrade in the debt rating on u.s. government securities could lead to a weakened u.s. 37 dollar, rising interest rates and constrained access to capital, which could materially adversely affect the u.s. and global economies, increase our costs of borrowing and have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital we plan to manage the company to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position as we expand our operations internationally, currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial position. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as the canadian dollar and the british pound. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions and/or obtain local currency mortgage debt in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, we cannot assure you that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on us. our entry into swap agreements may not effectively reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates we enter into swap agreements from time to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate volatility. these swap agreements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. when we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a risk that we will not complete the long-term borrowing against which the swap is intended to hedge. if such events occur, our results of operations may be adversely affected. risks arising from our status as a reit we might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit we intend to operate as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), and believe we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. if we lose our status as a reit, we will face serious income tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders because: we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to u.s. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a reit for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. since reit qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of u.s. federal and other income taxes owed. a reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. if we do not qualify as a reit, we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-reit is not required to pay dividends to stockholders in order to maintain reit status or avoid an excise tax. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations above for a discussion of the provisions of the code that apply to us and the effects of failure to qualify as a reit. in addition, if we fail to qualify as a reit, all distributions to stockholders would continue to be treated as dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction, and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to long-term capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 20%) with respect to distributions. as a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. 38 qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a reit. although we believe that we qualify as a reit, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations above. the 90% annual distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions to comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to reits and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit annual distribution requirements above. although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the reit distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement, or we may decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. this may be due to timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. in addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. in the event that timing differences occur, or we deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in another transaction intended to enable us to meet the reit distribution requirements. this may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations. the lease of qualified health care properties to a taxable reit subsidiary is subject to special requirements we lease certain qualified health care properties to taxable reit subsidiaries (or limited liability companies of which the taxable reit subsidiaries are members), which lessees contract with managers (or related parties) to manage the health care operations at these properties. the rents from this taxable reit subsidiary lessee structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property if (1) they are paid pursuant to an arms-length lease of a qualified health care property with a taxable reit subsidiary and (2) the manager qualifies as an eligible independent contractor (as defined in the code). if any of these conditions are not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit income tests above. if certain sale-leaseback transactions are not characterized by the internal revenue service as true leases, we may be subject to adverse tax consequences we have purchased certain properties and leased them back to the sellers of such properties, and we may enter into similar transactions in the future. we intend for any such sale-leaseback transaction to be structured in such a manner that the lease will be characterized as a true lease, thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for u.s. federal income tax purposes. however, depending on the terms of any specific transaction, the internal revenue service might take the position that the transaction is not a true lease but is more properly treated in some other manner. in the event any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and successfully re-characterized by the internal revenue service, we would not be entitled to claim the deductions for depreciation and cost recovery generally available to an owner of property. furthermore, if a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the reit asset tests or income tests and, consequently, could lose our reit status effective with the year of re-characterization. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit asset tests and item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit income tests above. alternatively, the amount of our reit taxable income could be recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet the reit annual distribution requirements for a taxable year. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit annual distribution requirements above. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we seek to mitigate the underlying foreign currency exposures with gains and losses on derivative contracts hedging these exposures. we seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. we may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. these decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. this section is presented to provide a discussion of the risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we historically borrow on our primary unsecured line of credit arrangement to acquire, construct or make loans relating to health care and seniors housing properties. then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under our unsecured line of credit arrangements. we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. the majority of our borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited. a change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt. changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt or equity or repaid by the sale of assets. to illustrate the impact of changes in the interest rate markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our fixed rate debt instruments whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates to determine the instruments' change in fair value. the following table summarizes the analysis performed as of the dates indicated (in thousands): december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 principal change in principal change in balance fair value balance fair value senior unsecured notes $ 7,421,707 $ (408,790) $ 6,145,457 $ (451,478) secured debt 2,787,236 (102,211) 2,024,454 (96,290) totals $ 10,208,943 $ (511,001) $ 8,169,911 $ (547,768) our variable rate debt, including our unsecured line of credit arrangements, is reflected at fair value. at december 31, 2013, we had $1,089,362,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt. assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $10,893,620. at december 31, 2012, we had $527,060,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt. assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have resulted in increased annual interest expense of $5,271,000. we are subject to currency fluctuations that may, from time to time, affect our financial condition and results of operations. increases or decreases in the value of the canadian dollar or pounds sterling relative to the u.s. dollar impacts the amount of net income we earn from our investments in canada and the united kingdom. based solely on our results for the twelve months ended december 31, 2013, if these exchange rates were to increase or decrease by 100 basis points, our net income from these investments would decrease or increase, as applicable, by less than $500,000 for the twelve-month period. we seek to mitigate these underlying foreign currency exposures with non-u.s. denominated borrowings and gains and losses on derivative contracts hedging these exposures. if we increase our international presence through investments in, or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing and health care properties outside the united states, we may also decide to transact additional business or borrow funds in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, canadian dollars or pounds sterling. to illustrate the impact of changes in foreign currency markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our derivative portfolio whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in foreign currency exchange rates to determine the instruments' change in fair value. the following table summarizes the results of the analysis performed (dollars in thousands): 75 december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 carrying change in carrying change in value fair value value fair value foreign currency exchange contracts (1) $ 4,066 $ (2,964) $ 296 $ (89) debt designated as hedges 1,146,596 8,002 251,054 2,500 totals $ 1,150,662 $ 5,038 $ 251,350 $ 2,411 (1) amounts exclude cross currency hedge activity. for additional information regarding derivatives and fair values of financial instruments, see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and notes 11 and 16 to our consolidated financial statements. 76risk factors this section discusses the most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial condition. it does not describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our industry or ownership of our securities. if any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently think are not material, actually occur, we could be materially adversely affected. in that event, the value of our securities could decline. we group these risk factors into three categories: risks arising from our business; risks arising from our capital structure; and risks arising from our status as a reit. risks arising from our business 30 our investments in and acquisitions of health care and seniors housing properties may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our expectations we are exposed to the risk that some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. we could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. if we agree to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project. such expenditures may negatively affect our results of operations. furthermore, there can be no assurance that our anticipated acquisitions and investments, the completion of which is subject to various conditions, will be consummated in accordance with anticipated timing, on anticipated terms, or at all. we also may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our investments in joint ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of exclusive control over these investments, our partners' insolvency or failure to meet their obligations and disputes between us and our partners we have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other persons or entities. joint venture investments involve risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including the possibility that our partner might become insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when due or otherwise fail to meet its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; that our partner might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged in a dispute with our partner, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such dispute and could have an adverse impact on the operations and profitability of the joint venture; and that our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests. in addition, our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted. in some instances, we and/or our partner may have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner's interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. our ability to acquire our partner's interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. in such event, we may be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. joint ventures may require us to share decision-making authority with our partners, which could limit our ability to control the properties in the joint ventures. even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions may require partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition or financing of a property. we are exposed to operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that could adversely affect our revenue and operations we are exposed to various operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. these risks include fluctuations in occupancy, medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates; economic conditions; competition; federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; the availability and increases in cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage; state regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; and the availability and increases in the cost of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise). any one or a combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue and operations. decreases in our operators' revenues or increases in our operators' expenses could affect our operators' ability to make payments to us our operators' revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, private pay rates, and medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable. expenses for these facilities are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. operating costs continue to increase for our operators. to the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. to the extent the value of such property is reduced, we may need to record an impairment for such asset. furthermore, if we determine to dispose of an underperforming property, such sale may result in a loss. any such impairment or loss on sale would negatively affect our financial results. increased competition may affect our operators' ability to meet their obligations to us the operators of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators of properties and other health care providers that provide comparable services. we cannot be certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain 31 occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. our operators are expected to encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses. the insolvency or bankruptcy of our obligors may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition we are exposed to the risk that our obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in an obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that an obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons. although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. an obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies. we may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new tenant. in some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. in some of those situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. if we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected. we may not be able to timely reinvest our sale proceeds on terms acceptable to us from time to time, we will have cash available from (1) the proceeds of sales of our securities, (2) principal payments on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. in order to maintain current revenues and continue generating attractive returns, we expect to re-invest these proceeds in a timely manner. we compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. this competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. failure to properly manage our rapid growth could distract our management or increase our expenses we have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to continue this rapid growth in the future. this growth has resulted in increased levels of responsibility for our management. future property acquisitions could place significant additional demands on, and require us to expand, our management, resources and personnel. our failure to manage any such rapid growth effectively could harm our business and, in particular, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to stockholders. our growth could also increase our capital requirements, which may require us to issue potentially dilutive equity securities and incur additional debt. we depend on genesis healthcare, llc ( genesis ) for a significant portion of our revenues and any inability or unwillingness by genesis to satisfy its obligations under its agreements with us could adversely affect us the properties we lease to genesis account for a significant portion of our revenues, and because our leases with genesis are triple-net leases, we also depend on genesis to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair expenses in connection with the leased properties. we cannot assure you that genesis will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable it to make rental payments to us or to otherwise satisfy its obligations under our leases, and any inability or unwillingness by genesis to do so could have an adverse effect on us. genesis has also agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with its business, and we cannot assure you that genesis will have sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable it to satisfy its indemnification obligations. the properties managed by sunrise senior living, llc account for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income and any adverse developments in its business or financial condition could adversely affect us sunrise senior living, llc manages our entire sunrise property portfolio, which as of december 31, 2014, consisted of 140 seniors housing properties. these properties account for a significant portion of our revenues, and we rely on sunrise senior living, llc to manage these properties efficiently and effectively. any adverse developments in sunrise senior living, llc's business or financial condition could impair its ability to manage our properties efficiently and effectively, which could adversely affect us. ownership of property outside the united states may subject us to different or greater risks than those associated with our domestic operations 32 we have operations in canada and the united kingdom. international development, ownership, and operating activities involve risks that are different from those we face with respect to our domestic properties and operations. these risks include, but are not limited to, any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a reit; challenges with respect to the repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; changes in foreign political, regulatory, and economic conditions, including regionally, nationally, and locally; challenges in managing international operations; challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to real estate, corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment and legal proceedings; foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in countries; differences in lending practices and the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide financing; regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability; and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations in the united states that affect foreign operations, including, but not limited to, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. if we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with international expansion and operations, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. we do not know if our tenants will renew their existing leases, and if they do not, we may be unable to lease the properties on as favorable terms, or at all we cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times. if these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties or sell them. there can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. our operators' may not have the necessary insurance coverage to insure adequately against losses in recent years, long-term/post-acute care and seniors housing operators have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims. as a result, general and professional liability costs have increased in some markets. general and professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the property operators' future operations, cash flows and financial condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the property operators' ability to meet their obligations to us. our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground leases we have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. as the lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us. the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as medicare or medicaid, could have a material adverse effect on our obligors' liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect our obligors' ability to meet their obligations to us some of our obligors' businesses are affected by government reimbursement. to the extent that an operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from government payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, court decisions, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing government investigations and audits at such property. in recent years, government payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures. health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives reimbursement from medicare, medicaid or private payors. significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an obligor's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor to meet its obligations to us. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states reimbursement above. the patient protection and affordable care act of 2010, as modified by the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (collectively, the health reform laws ), provides those states that expand their medicaid coverage to otherwise eligible state residents with incomes at or below 138% of the federal poverty level with an increased federal medical assistance percentage, effective january 1, 2014, when certain conditions are met. on june 28, 2012, the united states supreme court upheld the individual mandate of the health reform laws but partially invalidated the expansion of medicaid. the ruling on medicaid expansion allows 33 states to elect not to participate in the expansion and to forego funding for the medicaid expansion without losing their existing medicaid funding. given that the federal government substantially funds the medicaid expansion, it is unclear how many states will ultimately pursue this option, although, as of late january 2015, roughly half of the states have expanded medicaid coverage. the participation by states in the medicaid expansion could have the dual effect of increasing our tenants' revenues, through new patients, but further straining state budgets and their ability to pay our tenants. while the federal government will pay for approximately 100% of those additional costs from 2014 to 2016, states will be expected to pay for part of those additional costs beginning in 2017. in light of this, at least one state that has passed legislation to allow the state to expand its medicaid coverage has included sunset provisions in the legislation that require that the expanded benefits be reduced or eliminated if the federal government's funding for the program is decreased or eliminated, permitting the state to re-visit the issue once it begins to share financial responsibility for the expansion. with increasingly strained budgets, it is unclear how states that do not include such sunset provisions will pay their share of these additional medicaid costs and what other health care expenditures could be reduced as a result. a significant reduction in other health care related spending by states to pay for increased medicaid costs could affect our tenants' revenue streams. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states reimbursement above. more generally, and because of the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory environment for health care products and services, and in light of existing federal deficit and budgetary concerns, we cannot predict the impact that broad-based, far-reaching legislative or regulatory changes could have on the u.s. economy, our business or that of our operators and tenants. our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards could adversely affect such operators' or tenants' operations, which could adversely affect our operators' and tenants' ability to meet their obligations to us our operators and tenants generally are subject to varying levels of federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards. our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension, decertification or exclusion from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. such actions may have an effect on our operators' or tenants' ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states other related laws above. many of our properties may require a license, registration, and/or certificate of need ( con ) to operate. failure to obtain a license, registration, or con, or loss of a required license, registration, or con would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. these events could materially adversely affect our operators' or tenants' ability to make rent payments to us. state and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a con or other similar approval from a state agency. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states licensing and certification above. illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties real estate investments are relatively illiquid. our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. no assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and health care industries. a downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. unfavorable resolution of pending and future litigation matters and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition from time to time, we may be directly involved in a number of legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. we may also be named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our actions or the actions of our operators/tenants or managers in which such operators/tenants or managers have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses. an unfavorable resolution of pending or future litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management. there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, pending or future litigation. in addition, pending litigation or future litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations. development, redevelopment and construction risks could affect our profitability 34 at any given time, we may be in the process of constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will require a con and license before they can be utilized by the operator for their intended use. the operator also may need to obtain medicare and medicaid certification and enter into medicare and medicaid provider agreements and/or third party payor contracts. in the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary con, licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary provider agreements or contracts or we find and contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use and the necessary provider agreements or contracts. in connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. these factors could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. in addition, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may not be able to complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs. additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such distributions. newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. in deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. in particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy, rental rates and capital costs. if our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate as a result of increases in capital costs or other factors, the property may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. additionally, we may acquire new properties that are not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with that property. we may experience losses caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters, which could result in an increase of our or our tenants' cost of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues or a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property we maintain or require our tenants to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage, and we continually review our insurance programs and requirements. however, a large number of our properties are located in areas particularly susceptible to revenue loss, cost increase or damage caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes and floods. we believe, given current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside consultants, that our and our tenants' insurance coverage is appropriate to cover reasonably anticipated losses that may be caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, floods and other severe weather conditions and natural disasters. nevertheless, we are always subject to the risk that such insurance will not fully cover all losses and, depending on the severity of the event and the impact on our properties, such insurance may not cover a significant portion of the losses. these losses may lead to an increase of our and our tenants' cost of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues from an affected property and a loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in an affected property. in addition, we or our tenants may not purchase insurance under certain circumstances if the cost of insurance exceeds, in our or our tenants' judgment, the value of the coverage relative to the risk of loss. we may incur costs to remediate environmental contamination at our properties, which could have an adverse effect on our or our obligors' business or financial condition under various federal and state laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. we may become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person's relationship to the property. our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property. moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. those assessments are designed to meet the all appropriate inquiry standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material environmental contamination. however, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors. cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business and result in the loss of confidential information 35 our business is at risk from and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential data, and other electronic security breaches. such cyber attacks can range from individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems to more sophisticated security threats. while we employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing a cyber attack. cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business and compromise the confidential information of our employees, operators and tenants. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (restrictions on share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed we are dependent on key personnel. although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an adverse impact on our operations. we believe that losing more than one could have a material adverse impact on our business. risks arising from our capital structure we may become more leveraged permanent financing for our investments is typically provided through a combination of public offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt. the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or (4) negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the rating agencies. we are subject to covenants in our debt agreements that may restrict or limit our operations and acquisitions and our failure to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments. these defaults could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. limitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions; the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; the market price of the shares of our capital stock and the credit ratings of our debt securities; the financial stability of our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us or their willingness to make additional loans to us; changes in the credit ratings on u.s. government debt securities; or default or delay in payment by the united states of its obligations. if our access to capital is limited by these factors or other factors, it could negatively impact our ability to acquire properties, repay or refinance our indebtedness, fund operations or make distributions to our stockholders. downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital we plan to manage the company to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. 36 fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position as we expand our operations internationally, currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial position. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as the canadian dollar and the british pound. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions and/or obtain local currency mortgage debt in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, we cannot assure you that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on us. our entry into swap agreements may not effectively reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates we enter into swap agreements from time to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate volatility. these swap agreements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. when we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a risk that we will not complete the long-term borrowing against which the swap is intended to hedge. if such events occur, our results of operations may be adversely affected. risks arising from our status as a reit we might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit we intend to operate as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), and believe we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. if we lose our status as a reit, we will face serious income tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders because: we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to u.s. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a reit for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. since reit qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of u.s. federal and other income taxes owed. a reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. if we do not qualify as a reit, we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-reit is not required to pay dividends to stockholders in order to maintain reit status or avoid an excise tax. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations above for a discussion of the provisions of the code that apply to us and the effects of failure to qualify as a reit. in addition, if we fail to qualify as a reit, all distributions to stockholders would continue to be treated as dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction, and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to long-term capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 20%) with respect to distributions. as a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a reit. although we believe that we qualify as a reit, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations above. certain subsidiaries might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit as a result of our acquisition of shares in senior housing realty trust ( shrt ), we own a minority interest in an entity which elected to be taxed as a reit for federal income tax purposes. additionally, we own substantially all of the outstanding stock of a subsidiary which we consolidate for financial reporting purposes but which is treated as a separate reit for federal income tax purposes (together with shrt, each a subsidiary reit ). to qualify as a reit, each subsidiary reit must independently satisfy all of the reit qualification requirements under the code, together with all other rules applicable to reits. provided that each 37 subsidiary reit qualifies as a reit, our interests in the subsidiary reits will be treated as qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the reit asset tests. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit asset tests above. if a subsidiary reit fails to qualify as a reit in any taxable year, such subsidiary reit will be subject to federal and state income taxes and may not be able to qualify as a reit for the four subsequent taxable years. any such failure could have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with the reit income and asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify as a reit, unless we are able to avail ourselves of certain relief provisions. the 90% annual distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions to comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to reits and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit annual distribution requirements above. although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the reit distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement, or we may decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. this may be due to timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. in addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. in the event that timing differences occur, or we deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in another transaction intended to enable us to meet the reit distribution requirements. this may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations. the lease of qualified health care properties to a taxable reit subsidiary is subject to special requirements we lease certain qualified health care properties to taxable reit subsidiaries (or limited liability companies of which the taxable reit subsidiaries are members), which lessees contract with managers (or related parties) to manage the health care operations at these properties. the rents from this taxable reit subsidiary lessee structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property if (1) they are paid pursuant to an arms-length lease of a qualified health care property with a taxable reit subsidiary and (2) the manager qualifies as an eligible independent contractor (as defined in the code). if any of these conditions are not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit income tests above. if certain sale-leaseback transactions are not characterized by the internal revenue service as true leases, we may be subject to adverse tax consequences we have purchased certain properties and leased them back to the sellers of such properties, and we may enter into similar transactions in the future. we intend for any such sale-leaseback transaction to be structured in such a manner that the lease will be characterized as a true lease, thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for u.s. federal income tax purposes. however, depending on the terms of any specific transaction, the internal revenue service might take the position that the transaction is not a true lease but is more properly treated in some other manner. in the event any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and successfully re-characterized by the internal revenue service, we would not be entitled to claim the deductions for depreciation and cost recovery generally available to an owner of property. furthermore, if a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the reit asset tests or income tests and, consequently, could lose our reit status effective with the year of re-characterization. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit asset tests and item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit income tests above. alternatively, the amount of our reit taxable income could be recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet the reit annual distribution requirements for a taxable year. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit annual distribution requirements above. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we seek to mitigate the underlying foreign currency exposures with gains and losses on derivative contracts hedging these exposures. we seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. we may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. these decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. this section is a discussion of the risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. for additional information, see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and notes 11 and 16 to our consolidated financial statements. we historically borrow on our primary unsecured credit facility to acquire, construct or make loans relating to health care and seniors housing properties. then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility. we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. the majority of our borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited. a change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt. changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt or equity or repaid by the sale of assets. to illustrate the impact of changes in the interest rate markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our fixed rate debt instruments whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates to determine the instruments' change in fair value. the following table summarizes the analysis performed as of the dates indicated (in thousands): december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 principal balance fair value change principal balance fair value change senior unsecured notes $ 7,817,154 $ (547,358) $ 7,421,707 $ (408,790) secured debt 2,673,480 (93,580) 2,787,236 (102,211) totals $ 10,490,634 $ (640,938) $ 10,208,943 $ (511,001) our variable rate debt, including our unsecured line of credit arrangements, is reflected at fair value. at december 31, 2014, we had $983,783,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt. assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $9,838,000. at december 31, 2013, we had $1,089,362,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt. assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have resulted in increased annual interest expense of $10,894,000. we are subject to currency fluctuations that may, from time to time, affect our financial condition and results of operations. increases or decreases in the value of the canadian dollar or pounds sterling relative to the u.s. dollar impacts the amount of net income we earn from our investments in canada and the united kingdom. based solely on our results for the twelve months ended december 31, 2014, if these exchange rates were to increase or decrease by 100 basis points, our net income from these investments would decrease or increase, as applicable, by less than $500,000 for the twelve-month period. we seek to mitigate these underlying foreign currency exposures with non-u.s. denominated borrowings and gains and losses on derivative contracts hedging these exposures. if we increase our international presence through investments in, or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing and health care properties outside the united states, we may also decide to transact additional business or borrow funds in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, canadian dollars or pounds sterling. to illustrate the impact of changes in foreign currency markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our derivative portfolio whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in foreign currency exchange rates to determine the instruments' change in fair value. the following table summarizes the results of the analysis performed, excluding cross currency hedge activity (dollars in thousands): december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 carrying value fair value change carrying value fair value change foreign currency exchange contracts $ 54,247 $ 4,242 $ 4,066 $ (2,964) debt designated as hedges 1,851,189 13,000 1,146,596 8,002 totals $ 1,905,436 $ 17,242 $ 1,150,662 $ 5,038 69risk factors this section discusses the most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial condition. it does not describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our industry or ownership of our securities. if any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently think are not material, actually occur, we could be materially adversely affected. in that event, the value of our securities could decline. we group these risk factors into three categories: risks arising from our business; risks arising from our capital structure; and risks arising from our status as a reit. risks arising from our business our investments in and acquisitions of health care and seniors housing properties may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our expectations we are exposed to the risk that some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. we could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. if we agree to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project. such expenditures may negatively affect our results of operations. furthermore, there can be no assurance that our anticipated acquisitions and investments, the completion of which is subject to various conditions, will be consummated in accordance with anticipated timing, on anticipated terms, or at all. we also may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our investments in joint ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of exclusive control over these investments, our partners' insolvency or failure to meet their obligations and disputes between us and our partners we have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other persons or entities. joint venture investments involve risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including the possibility that our partner might become insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when due or otherwise fail to meet its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; that our partner might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged in a dispute with our partner, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such dispute and could have an adverse impact on the operations and profitability of the joint venture; and that our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests. in addition, our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted. in some instances, we and/or our partner may have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner's interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. our ability to acquire our partner's interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. in such event, we may be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. joint ventures may require us to share decision-making authority with our partners, which could limit our ability to control the properties in the joint ventures. even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions may require partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition or financing of a property. we are exposed to operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that could adversely affect our revenue and operations 34 we are exposed to various operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. these risks include fluctuations in occupancy, medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates; economic conditions; competition; federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; the availability and increases in cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage; state regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; and the availability and increases in the cost of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise). any one or a combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue and operations. decreases in our operators' revenues or increases in our operators' expenses could affect our operators' ability to make payments to us our operators' revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, private pay rates, and medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable. expenses for these facilities are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. operating costs continue to increase for our operators. to the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. to the extent the value of such property is reduced, we may need to record an impairment for such asset. furthermore, if we determine to dispose of an underperforming property, such sale may result in a loss. any such impairment or loss on sale would negatively affect our financial results. increased competition may affect our operators' ability to meet their obligations to us the operators of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators of properties and other health care providers that provide comparable services. we cannot be certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. our operators are expected to encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses. a severe cold and flu season, epidemics or any other widespread illnesses could adversely affect the occupancy of our seniors housing operating and triple-net properties our and our operators' revenues are dependent on occupancy. it is impossible to predict the severity of the cold and flu season or the occurrence of epidemics or any other widespread illnesses. the occupancy of our seniors housing operating and triple-net properties could significantly decrease in the event of a severe cold and flu season, an epidemic or any other widespread illness. such a decrease could affect the operating income of our seniors housing operating properties and the ability of our triple-net operators to make payments to us. the insolvency or bankruptcy of our obligors may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition we are exposed to the risk that our obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in an obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that an obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons. although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. an obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies. we may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new tenant. in some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. in some of those situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. if we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected. we may not be able to timely reinvest our sale proceeds on terms acceptable to us from time to time, we will have cash available from (1) the proceeds of sales of our securities, (2) principal payments on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. in order to maintain current revenues and continue generating attractive returns, we expect to re-invest these 35 proceeds in a timely manner. we compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. this competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. failure to properly manage our rapid growth could distract our management or increase our expenses we have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to continue this rapid growth in the future. this growth has resulted in increased levels of responsibility for our management. future property acquisitions could place significant additional demands on, and require us to expand, our management, resources and personnel. our failure to manage any such rapid growth effectively could harm our business and, in particular, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to stockholders. our growth could also increase our capital requirements, which may require us to issue potentially dilutive equity securities and incur additional debt. we depend on genesis healthcare, llc ( genesis ) for a significant portion of our revenues and any inability or unwillingness by genesis to satisfy its obligations under its agreements with us could adversely affect us the properties we lease to genesis account for a significant portion of our revenues, and because our leases with genesis are triple-net leases, we also depend on genesis to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair expenses in connection with the leased properties. we cannot assure you that genesis will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable it to make rental payments to us or to otherwise satisfy its obligations under our leases, and any inability or unwillingness by genesis to do so could have an adverse effect on us. genesis has also agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with its business, and we cannot assure you that genesis will have sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable it to satisfy its indemnification obligations. the properties managed by sunrise senior living, llc account for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income and any adverse developments in its business or financial condition could adversely affect us sunrise senior living, llc manages our entire sunrise property portfolio, which as of december 31, 2015, consisted of 152 seniors housing properties. these properties account for a significant portion of our revenues, and we rely on sunrise senior living, llc to manage these properties efficiently and effectively. any adverse developments in sunrise senior living, llc's business or financial condition could impair its ability to manage our properties efficiently and effectively, which could adversely affect us. ownership of property outside the united states may subject us to different or greater risks than those associated with our domestic operations we have operations in canada and the united kingdom. international development, ownership, and operating activities involve risks that are different from those we face with respect to our domestic properties and operations. these risks include, but are not limited to, any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a reit; challenges with respect to the repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; changes in foreign political, regulatory, and economic conditions, including regionally, nationally, and locally; challenges in managing international operations; challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to real estate, corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment and legal proceedings; foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in countries; differences in lending practices and the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide financing; regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability; and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations in the united states that affect foreign operations, including, but not limited to, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. if we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with international expansion and operations, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. we do not know if our tenants will renew their existing leases, and if they do not, we may be unable to lease the properties on as favorable terms, or at all we cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times. if these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties or sell them. there can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. our operators' may not have the necessary insurance coverage to insure adequately against losses in recent years, long-term/post-acute care and seniors housing operators have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims. as a result, general and professional liability costs have increased in some markets. general and professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the property operators' 36 future operations, cash flows and financial condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the property operators' ability to meet their obligations to us. our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground leases we have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. as the lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us. the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as medicare or medicaid, could have a material adverse effect on our obligors' liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect our obligors' ability to meet their obligations to us some of our obligors' businesses are affected by government reimbursement. to the extent that an operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from government payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, court decisions, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing government investigations and audits at such property. in recent years, government payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures. health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives reimbursement from medicare, medicaid or private payors. significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an obligor's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor to meet its obligations to us. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states reimbursement above. the patient protection and affordable care act of 2010, as modified by the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (collectively, the health reform laws ), provides those states that expand their medicaid coverage to otherwise eligible state residents with incomes at or below 138% of the federal poverty level with an increased federal medical assistance percentage, effective january 1, 2014, when certain conditions are met. on june 28, 2012, the united states supreme court upheld the individual mandate of the health reform laws but partially invalidated the expansion of medicaid. the ruling on medicaid expansion allows states to elect not to participate in the expansion and to forego funding for the medicaid expansion without losing their existing medicaid funding. given that the federal government substantially funds the medicaid expansion, it is unclear how many states will ultimately pursue this option, although, as of early february 2016, roughly half of the states have expanded medicaid coverage. the participation by states in the medicaid expansion could have the dual effect of increasing our tenants' revenues, through new patients, but further straining state budgets and their ability to pay our tenants. while the federal government will pay for approximately 100% of those additional costs from 2014 through 2016, states will be expected to pay for part of those additional costs beginning in 2017. in light of this, at least one state that has passed legislation to allow the state to expand its medicaid coverage has included sunset provisions in the legislation that require that the expanded benefits be reduced or eliminated if the federal government's funding for the program is decreased or eliminated, permitting the state to re-visit the issue once it begins to share financial responsibility for the expansion. with increasingly strained budgets, it is unclear how states that do not include such sunset provisions will pay their share of these additional medicaid costs and what other health care expenditures could be reduced as a result. a significant reduction in other health care related spending by states to pay for increased medicaid costs could affect our tenants' revenue streams. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states reimbursement above. more generally, and because of the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory environment for health care products and services, and in light of existing federal deficit and budgetary concerns, we cannot predict the impact that broad-based, far-reaching legislative or regulatory changes could have on the u.s. economy, our business or that of our operators and tenants. our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards could adversely affect such operators' or tenants' operations, which could adversely affect our operators' and tenants' ability to meet their obligations to us our operators and tenants generally are subject to varying levels of federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards. our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension, decertification or exclusion from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. such actions may have an effect on 37 our operators' or tenants' ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states other related laws, initiatives, and considerations above. many of our properties may require a license, registration, and/or certificate of need ( con ) to operate. failure to obtain a license, registration, or con, or loss of a required license, registration, or con would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. these events could materially adversely affect our operators' or tenants' ability to make rent payments to us. state and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a con or other similar approval from a state agency. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states licensing and certification above. illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties real estate investments are relatively illiquid. our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. no assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and health care industries. a downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. unfavorable resolution of pending and future litigation matters and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition from time to time, we may be directly involved in a number of legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. we may also be named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our actions or the actions of our operators/tenants or managers in which such operators/tenants or managers have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses. an unfavorable resolution of pending or future litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management. there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, pending or future litigation. in addition, pending litigation or future litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations. development, redevelopment and construction risks could affect our profitability at any given time, we may be in the process of constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will require a con and license before they can be utilized by the operator for their intended use. the operator also may need to obtain medicare and medicaid certification and enter into medicare and medicaid provider agreements and/or third party payor contracts. in the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary con, licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary provider agreements or contracts or we find and contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use and the necessary provider agreements or contracts. in connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. these factors could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. in addition, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may not be able to complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs. additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such distributions. newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. in deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. in particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy, rental rates and capital costs. if our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate as a result of increases in capital costs or other factors, the property may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. additionally, we may 38 acquire new properties that are not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with that property. we may experience losses caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters, which could result in an increase of our or our tenants' cost of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues or a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property we maintain or require our tenants to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage, and we continually review our insurance programs and requirements. however, a large number of our properties are located in areas particularly susceptible to revenue loss, cost increase or damage caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes and floods. we believe, given current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside consultants, that our and our tenants' insurance coverage is appropriate to cover reasonably anticipated losses that may be caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, floods and other severe weather conditions and natural disasters. nevertheless, we are always subject to the risk that such insurance will not fully cover all losses and, depending on the severity of the event and the impact on our properties, such insurance may not cover a significant portion of the losses. these losses may lead to an increase of our and our tenants' cost of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues from an affected property and a loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in an affected property. in addition, we or our tenants may not purchase insurance under certain circumstances if the cost of insurance exceeds, in our or our tenants' judgment, the value of the coverage relative to the risk of loss. we may incur costs to remediate environmental contamination at our properties, which could have an adverse effect on our or our obligors' business or financial condition under various federal and state laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. we may become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person's relationship to the property. our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property. moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. those assessments are designed to meet the all appropriate inquiry standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material environmental contamination. however, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors. cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business and result in the loss of confidential information our business is at risk from and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential data, and other electronic security breaches. such cyber attacks can range from individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems to more sophisticated security threats. while we employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing a cyber attack. cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business and compromise the confidential information of our employees, operators and tenants. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (restrictions on share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed we are dependent on key personnel. although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an adverse impact on our operations. we believe that losing more than one could have a material adverse impact on our business. risks arising from our capital structure we may become more leveraged 39 permanent financing for our investments is typically provided through a combination of public offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt. the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or (4) negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the rating agencies. we are subject to covenants in our debt agreements that may restrict or limit our operations and acquisitions and our failure to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments. these defaults could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. limitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions; the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; the market price of the shares of our capital stock and the credit ratings of our debt securities; the financial stability of our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us or their willingness to make additional loans to us; changes in the credit ratings on u.s. government debt securities; or default or delay in payment by the united states of its obligations. if our access to capital is limited by these factors or other factors, it could negatively impact our ability to acquire properties, repay or refinance our indebtedness, fund operations or make distributions to our stockholders. downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital we plan to manage the company to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position as we expand our operations internationally, currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial position. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as the canadian dollar and the british pound. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions and/or obtain local currency mortgage debt in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, we cannot assure you that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on us. our entry into swap agreements may not effectively reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates we enter into swap agreements from time to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate volatility. these swap agreements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. when we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a risk that we will not complete the long-term borrowing against which the swap is intended to hedge. if such events occur, our results of operations may be adversely affected. risks arising from our status as a reit we might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit we intend to operate as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), and believe we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. if we lose our status as a reit, we will face serious income tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders because: 40 we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to u.s. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a reit for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. since reit qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of u.s. federal and other income taxes owed. a reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. if we do not qualify as a reit, we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-reit is not required to pay dividends to stockholders in order to maintain reit status or avoid an excise tax. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations above for a discussion of the provisions of the code that apply to us and the effects of failure to qualify as a reit. in addition, if we fail to qualify as a reit, all distributions to stockholders would continue to be treated as dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction, and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to long-term capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 20%) with respect to distributions. as a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a reit. although we believe that we qualify as a reit, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations above. certain subsidiaries might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit we own interests in a number of entities which have elected to be taxed as reits for federal income tax purposes, some of which we consolidate for financial reporting purposes but each of which is treated as a separate reit for federal income tax purposes (each a subsidiary reit ). to qualify as a reit, each subsidiary reit must independently satisfy all of the reit qualification requirements under the code, together with all other rules applicable to reits. provided that each subsidiary reit qualifies as a reit, our interests in the subsidiary reits will be treated as qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the reit asset tests. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit asset tests above. if a subsidiary reit fails to qualify as a reit in any taxable year, such subsidiary reit will be subject to federal and state income taxes and may not be able to qualify as a reit for the four subsequent taxable years. any such failure could have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with the reit income and asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify as a reit, unless we are able to avail ourselves of certain relief provisions. the 90% annual distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions to comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to reits and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit annual distribution requirements above. although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the reit distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement, or we may decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. this may be due to timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. in addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. in the event that timing differences occur, or we deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in another transaction intended to enable us to meet the reit distribution requirements. this may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations. the lease of qualified health care properties to a taxable reit subsidiary is subject to special requirements 41 we lease certain qualified health care properties to taxable reit subsidiaries (or limited liability companies of which the taxable reit subsidiaries are members), which lessees contract with managers (or related parties) to manage the health care operations at these properties. the rents from this taxable reit subsidiary lessee structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property if (1) they are paid pursuant to an arms-length lease of a qualified health care property with a taxable reit subsidiary and (2) the manager qualifies as an eligible independent contractor (as defined in the code). if any of these conditions are not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit income tests above. if certain sale-leaseback transactions are not characterized by the internal revenue service as true leases, we may be subject to adverse tax consequences we have purchased certain properties and leased them back to the sellers of such properties, and we may enter into similar transactions in the future. we intend for any such sale-leaseback transaction to be structured in such a manner that the lease will be characterized as a true lease, thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for u.s. federal income tax purposes. however, depending on the terms of any specific transaction, the internal revenue service might take the position that the transaction is not a true lease but is more properly treated in some other manner. in the event any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and successfully re-characterized by the internal revenue service, we would not be entitled to claim the deductions for depreciation and cost recovery generally available to an owner of property. furthermore, if a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the reit asset tests or income tests and, consequently, could lose our reit status effective with the year of re-characterization. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit asset tests and item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit income tests above. alternatively, the amount of our reit taxable income could be recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet the reit annual distribution requirements for a taxable year. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit annual distribution requirements above. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we seek to mitigate the underlying foreign currency exposures with gains and losses on derivative contracts hedging these exposures. we seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. we may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. these decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. this section is a discussion of the risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. for additional information, see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and notes 11 and 16 to our consolidated financial statements. we historically borrow on our primary unsecured credit facility to acquire, construct or make loans relating to health care and seniors housing properties. then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility. we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. the majority of our borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited. a change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt. changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt or equity or repaid by the sale of assets. to illustrate the impact of changes in the interest rate markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our fixed rate debt instruments whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates to determine the instruments' change in fair value. the following table summarizes the analysis performed as of the dates indicated (in thousands): december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 principal balance fair value change principal balance fair value change senior unsecured notes $ 7,965,107 $ (519,901) $ 7,101,655 $ (547,358) secured debt 2,757,123 (91,376) 2,673,480 (93,580) totals $ 10,722,230 $ (611,277) $ 9,775,135 $ (640,938) our variable rate debt, including our unsecured line of credit arrangements, is reflected at fair value. at december 31, 2015, we had $2,236,733,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt. assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $22,367,000. at december 31, 2014, we had $983,783,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt. assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have resulted in increased annual interest expense of $9,838,000. we are subject to currency fluctuations that may, from time to time, affect our financial condition and results of operations. increases or decreases in the value of the canadian dollar or pounds sterling relative to the u.s. dollar impacts the amount of net income we earn from our investments in canada and the united kingdom. based solely on our results for the twelve months ended december 31, 2015, if these exchange rates were to increase or decrease by 100 basis points, our net income from these investments would decrease or increase, as applicable, by less than $1,000,000 for the twelve-month period. we seek to mitigate these underlying foreign currency exposures with non-u.s. denominated borrowings and gains and losses on derivative contracts hedging these exposures. if we increase our international presence through investments in, or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing and health care properties outside the united states, we may also decide to transact additional business or borrow funds in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, canadian dollars or pounds sterling. to illustrate the impact of changes in foreign currency markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our derivative portfolio whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in foreign currency exchange rates to determine the instruments' change in fair value. the following table summarizes the results of the analysis performed, excluding cross currency hedge activity (dollars in thousands): december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 carrying value fair value change carrying value fair value change foreign currency exchange contracts $ 117,452 $ 1,915 $ 54,247 $ 4,242 debt designated as hedges 1,728,979 13,000 1,851,189 13,000 totals $ 1,846,431 $ 14,915 $ 1,905,436 $ 17,242 72risk factors this section discusses the most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial condition. it does not describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our industry or ownership of our securities. if any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently think are not material, actually occur, we could be materially adversely affected. in that event, the value of our securities could decline. we group these risk factors into three categories: risks arising from our business; risks arising from our capital structure; and risks arising from our status as a reit. risks arising from our business our investments in and acquisitions of health care and seniors housing properties may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our expectations we are exposed to the risk that some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. we could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. if we agree to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project. such expenditures may negatively affect our results of operations. furthermore, there can be no assurance that our anticipated acquisitions and investments, the completion of which is subject to various conditions, will be consummated in accordance with anticipated timing, on anticipated terms, or at all. we also may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our investments in joint ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of exclusive control over these investments, our partners' insolvency or failure to meet their obligations and disputes between us and our partners 25 we have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other persons or entities. joint venture investments involve risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including the possibility that our partner might become insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when due or otherwise fail to meet its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; that our partner might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged in a dispute with our partner, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such dispute and could have an adverse impact on the operations and profitability of the joint venture; and that our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests. in addition, our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted. in some instances, we and/or our partner may have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner's interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. our ability to acquire our partner's interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. in such event, we may be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. joint ventures may require us to share decision-making authority with our partners, which could limit our ability to control the properties in the joint ventures. even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions may require partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition or financing of a property. we are exposed to operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that could adversely affect our revenue and operations we are exposed to various operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. these risks include fluctuations in occupancy, medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates; economic conditions; competition; federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; the availability and increases in cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage; state regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; and the availability and increases in the cost of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise). any one or a combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue and operations. decreases in our operators' revenues or increases in our operators' expenses could affect our operators' ability to make payments to us our operators' revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, private pay rates, and medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable. expenses for these facilities are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. operating costs continue to increase for our operators. to the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. to the extent the value of such property is reduced, we may need to record an impairment for such asset. furthermore, if we determine to dispose of an underperforming property, such sale may result in a loss. any such impairment or loss on sale would negatively affect our financial results. increased competition may affect our operators' ability to meet their obligations to us the operators of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators of properties and other health care providers that provide comparable services. we cannot be certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. our operators are expected to encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses. a severe cold and flu season, epidemics or any other widespread illnesses could adversely affect the occupancy of our seniors housing operating and triple-net properties our and our operators' revenues are dependent on occupancy. it is impossible to predict the severity of the cold and flu season or the occurrence of epidemics or any other widespread illnesses. the occupancy of our seniors housing operating and triple-net properties could significantly decrease in the event of a severe cold and flu season, an epidemic or any other widespread illness. such a decrease could affect the operating income of our seniors housing operating properties and the ability of our triple-net operators to make payments to us. the insolvency or bankruptcy of our obligors may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition we are exposed to the risk that our obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in an obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that an obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency 26 proceedings for other reasons. although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. an obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies. we may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new tenant. in some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. in some of those situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. if we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected. we may not be able to timely reinvest our sale proceeds on terms acceptable to us from time to time, we will have cash available from (1) the proceeds of sales of our securities, (2) principal payments on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. in order to maintain current revenues and continue generating attractive returns, we expect to re-invest these proceeds in a timely manner. we compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. this competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. failure to properly manage our rapid growth could distract our management or increase our expenses we have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to continue this rapid growth in the future. this growth has resulted in increased levels of responsibility for our management. future property acquisitions could place significant additional demands on, and require us to expand, our management, resources and personnel. our failure to manage any such rapid growth effectively could harm our business and, in particular, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to stockholders. our growth could also increase our capital requirements, which may require us to issue potentially dilutive equity securities and incur additional debt. we depend on genesis healthcare, llc ( genesis ) and brookdale senior living for a significant portion of our revenues and any inability or unwillingness by genesis and brookdale senior living to satisfy their obligations under their agreements with us could adversely affect us the properties we lease to genesis and brookdale senior living account for a significant portion of our revenues, and because our leases with genesis and brookdale senior living are triple-net leases, we also depend on genesis and brookdale senior living to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair expenses in connection with the leased properties. we cannot assure you that genesis and brookdale senior living will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable them to make rental payments to us or to otherwise satisfy their respective obligations under our leases, and any inability or unwillingness by genesis or brookdale senior living to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. genesis and brookdale senior living have also agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses, and we cannot assure you that genesis and brookdale senior living will have sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable them to satisfy their respective indemnification obligations. genesis and brookdale senior living's failure to effectively conduct their operations or to maintain and improve our properties could adversely affect their business reputations and their ability to attract and retain patients and residents in our properties, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the properties managed by sunrise senior living, llc account for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income and any adverse developments in its business or financial condition could adversely affect us sunrise senior living, llc manages our entire sunrise property portfolio, which as of december 31, 2016, consisted of 157 seniors housing properties. these properties account for a significant portion of our revenues, and we rely on sunrise senior living, llc to manage these properties efficiently and effectively. we also rely on sunrise senior living, llc to set appropriate resident fees, to provide accurate property-level financial results for our properties in a timely manner and to otherwise operate them in compliance with the terms of our management agreements and all applicable laws and regulations. any adverse developments in sunrise senior living, llc's business or financial condition could impair its ability to manage our properties efficiently and effectively, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. also, if sunrise senior living, llc experiences any significant financial, legal, accounting or regulatory difficulties, such difficulties could result in, among other things, acceleration of its indebtedness, impairment of its continued access to capital or the commencement of insolvency proceedings by or against it under the u.s. bankruptcy code, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 27 ownership of property outside the united states may subject us to different or greater risks than those associated with our domestic operations we have operations in canada and the united kingdom. international development, ownership, and operating activities involve risks that are different from those we face with respect to our domestic properties and operations. these risks include, but are not limited to, any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a reit; challenges with respect to the repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; changes in foreign political, regulatory, and economic conditions, including regionally, nationally, and locally, including, but not limited to, the united kingdom's june 2016 vote to exit the european union (commonly known as brexit ); challenges in managing international operations; challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to real estate, corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment and other civil and criminal legal proceedings; foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in countries; differences in lending practices and the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide financing; regional or country-specific business cycles and political and economic instability; and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations in the united states that affect foreign operations, including, but not limited to, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. if we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with international expansion and operations, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. we do not know if our tenants will renew their existing leases, and if they do not, we may be unable to lease the properties on as favorable terms, or at all we cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times. if these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties or sell them. there can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. our operators and managers may not have the necessary insurance coverage to insure adequately against losses we maintain or require our operators and managers to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties and their operations with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are customary for similarly-situated companies in our industry, and we continually review our insurance programs and requirements. that said, we cannot assure you that we or our operators or managers will continue to be able to maintain adequate levels of insurance and required coverages, which could adversely affect us in the event of a significant uninsured loss. also, in recent years, long-term/post-acute care and seniors housing operators and managers have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims. as a result, general and professional liability costs have increased in some markets. general and professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the property operators' and managers' future operations, cash flows and financial condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the property operators' and managers' ability to meet their obligations to us. our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground leases we have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. as the lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us. the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as medicare or medicaid, could have a material adverse effect on our obligors' liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect our obligors' ability to meet their obligations to us some of our obligors' businesses are affected by government reimbursement. to the extent that an operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from government payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, court decisions, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing government investigations and audits at such property. in recent years, government payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures. health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available 28 for services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives reimbursement from medicare, medicaid or private payors. significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an obligor's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor to meet its obligations to us. the patient protection and affordable care act, as modified by the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (collectively, the health reform laws ), provides those states that expand their medicaid coverage to otherwise eligible state residents with incomes at or below 138% of the federal poverty level with an increased federal medical assistance percentage, effective january 1, 2014, when certain conditions are met. given that the federal government substantially funds the medicaid expansion, it is unclear how many states will ultimately pursue this option, although, as of early february 2017, more than half of the states have expanded medicaid coverage. the participation by states in the medicaid expansion could have the dual effect of increasing our tenants' revenues, through new patients, but further straining state budgets and their ability to pay our tenants. we expect that the new presidential administration and u.s. congress will seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the health reform laws, including medicaid expansion. since taking office, president trump has continued to support the repeal of all or portions of the health reform laws. the house and senate have recently passed a budget resolution that authorizes congressional committees to draft legislation to repeal all or portions of the health reform laws and permits such legislation to pass with a majority vote in the senate. president trump has also recently issued an executive order in which he stated that it is his administration's policy to seek the prompt repeal of the health reform laws and directed executive departments and federal agencies to waive, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay the implementation of the provisions of health reform laws to the maximum extent permitted by law. there is still uncertainty with respect to the impact president trump's administration and the u.s. congress may have, if any, and any changes will likely take time to unfold, and could have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for health care items and services covered by plans that were authorized by the health reform laws. we cannot predict whether the existing health reform laws, or future health care reform legislation or regulatory changes, will have a material impact on our operators' or tenants' property or business. if the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our operators and tenants are materially adversely impacted by the health reform laws or future legislation, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected as well. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states reimbursement above. more generally, and because of the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory environment for health care products and services, and in light of existing federal deficit and budgetary concerns, we cannot predict the impact that broad-based, far-reaching legislative or regulatory changes could have on the u.s. economy, our business or that of our operators and tenants. our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards could adversely affect such operators' or tenants' operations, which could adversely affect our operators' and tenants' ability to meet their obligations to us our operators and tenants generally are subject to varying levels of federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards. our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension, decertification or exclusion from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. such actions may have an effect on our operators' or tenants' ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states fraud &amp; abuse enforcement above. many of our properties may require a license, registration, and/or certificate of need ( con ) to operate. failure to obtain a license, registration, or con, or loss of a required license, registration, or con would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. these events could materially adversely affect our operators' or tenants' ability to make rent payments to us. state and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a con or other similar approval from a state agency. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states licensing and certification above. illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties real estate investments are relatively illiquid. our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. no assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and health care industries. a downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. 29 unfavorable resolution of pending and future litigation matters and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition from time to time, we may be directly involved in a number of legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. we may also be named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our actions or the actions of our operators/tenants or managers in which such operators/tenants or managers have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses. an unfavorable resolution of pending or future litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management. there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, pending or future litigation. in addition, pending litigation or future litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations. development, redevelopment and construction risks could affect our profitability at any given time, we may be in the process of constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will require a con and license before they can be utilized by the operator for their intended use. the operator also may need to obtain medicare and medicaid certification and enter into medicare and medicaid provider agreements and/or third party payor contracts. in the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary con, licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary provider agreements or contracts or we find and contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use and the necessary provider agreements or contracts. in connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. these factors could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. in addition, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may not be able to complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs. additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such distributions. newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. in deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. in particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy, rental rates and capital costs. if our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate as a result of increases in capital costs or other factors, the property may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. additionally, we may acquire new properties that are not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with that property. we may experience losses caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters, which could result in an increase of our or our tenants' cost of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues or a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property we maintain or require our tenants to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage, and we continually review our insurance programs and requirements. however, a large number of our properties are located in areas particularly susceptible to revenue loss, cost increase or damage caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes and floods. we believe, given current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside consultants, that our and our tenants' insurance coverage is appropriate to cover reasonably anticipated losses that may be caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, floods and other severe weather conditions and natural disasters. nevertheless, we are always subject to the risk that such insurance will not fully cover all losses and, depending on the severity of the event and the impact on our properties, such insurance may not cover a significant portion of the losses. these losses may lead to an increase of our and our tenants' cost of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues from an affected property and a loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in an affected property. in addition, we or our tenants may not purchase insurance under certain circumstances if the cost of insurance exceeds, in our or our tenants' judgment, the value of the coverage relative to the risk of loss. we may incur costs to remediate environmental contamination at our properties, which could have an adverse effect on our or our obligors' business or financial condition 30 under various federal and state laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. we may become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person's relationship to the property. our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property. moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. those assessments are designed to meet the all appropriate inquiry standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material environmental contamination. however, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors. cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business and result in the loss of confidential information our business is at risk from and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential data, and other electronic security breaches. such cyber attacks can range from individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems to more sophisticated security threats. while we employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing a cyber attack. cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business and compromise the confidential information of our employees, operators and tenants. actual or threatened terrorist attacks could adversely affect the occupancy and the value of our properties we have significant investments in large metropolitan markets that have been or may be in the future the targets of actual or threatened terrorism attacks, including boston, chicago, new york, san diego, san francisco, los angeles and washington d.c. as a result, some of our tenants in these markets may choose to relocate to other markets that may be perceived to be less likely targets of future terrorist activity. this could result in an overall decrease in the occupancy of our properties. in addition, terrorist attacks could also result in significant damages to, or loss of, our properties, which could exceed our insurance coverage. our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (restrictions on share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed we are dependent on key personnel. although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an adverse impact on our operations. we believe that losing more than one could have a material adverse impact on our business. risks arising from our capital structure we may become more leveraged permanent financing for our investments is typically provided through a combination of public offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt. the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or (4) negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the rating agencies. we are subject to covenants in our debt agreements that may restrict or limit our operations and acquisitions and our failure to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the 31 applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments. these defaults could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. limitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions; the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; the market price of the shares of our capital stock and the credit ratings of our debt securities; the financial stability of our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us or their willingness to make additional loans to us; changes in the credit ratings on u.s. government debt securities; or default or delay in payment by the united states of its obligations. if our access to capital is limited by these factors or other factors, it could negatively impact our ability to acquire properties, repay or refinance our indebtedness, fund operations or make distributions to our stockholders. downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital we plan to manage the company to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position as we expand our operations internationally, currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial position. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as the canadian dollar and the british pound. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions and/or obtain local currency mortgage debt in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, we cannot assure you that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on us. our entry into swap agreements may not effectively reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates we enter into swap agreements from time to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate volatility. these swap agreements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. when we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a risk that we will not complete the long-term borrowing against which the swap is intended to hedge. if such events occur, our results of operations may be adversely affected. risks arising from our status as a reit we might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit we intend to operate as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), and believe we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. if we lose our status as a reit, we will face serious income tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders because: we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to u.s. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a reit for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. since reit qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of u.s. federal and other income taxes owed. a reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. if we do not qualify as a reit, we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-reit is not required to pay dividends to stockholders in order to maintain reit status or avoid an excise tax. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations above for a discussion of the provisions of the code that apply to us and the effects of failure to qualify as a reit. in addition, if we fail to qualify as a reit, all distributions to stockholders would continue to be treated as dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and 32 profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction, and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to long-term capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 20%) with respect to distributions. as a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a reit. although we believe that we qualify as a reit, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations above. certain subsidiaries might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit we own interests in a number of entities which have elected to be taxed as reits for federal income tax purposes, some of which we consolidate for financial reporting purposes but each of which is treated as a separate reit for federal income tax purposes (each a subsidiary reit ). to qualify as a reit, each subsidiary reit must independently satisfy all of the reit qualification requirements under the code, together with all other rules applicable to reits. provided that each subsidiary reit qualifies as a reit, our interests in the subsidiary reits will be treated as qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the reit asset tests. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit asset tests above. if a subsidiary reit fails to qualify as a reit in any taxable year, such subsidiary reit will be subject to federal and state income taxes and may not be able to qualify as a reit for the four subsequent taxable years. any such failure could have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with the reit income and asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify as a reit, unless we are able to avail ourselves of certain relief provisions. the 90% annual distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions to comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to reits and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit annual distribution requirements above. although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the reit distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement, or we may decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. this may be due to timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. in addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. in the event that timing differences occur, or we deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in another transaction intended to enable us to meet the reit distribution requirements. this may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations. the lease of qualified health care properties to a taxable reit subsidiary is subject to special requirements we lease certain qualified health care properties to taxable reit subsidiaries (or limited liability companies of which the taxable reit subsidiaries are members), which lessees contract with managers (or related parties) to manage the health care operations at these properties. the rents from this taxable reit subsidiary lessee structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property if (1) they are paid pursuant to an arms-length lease of a qualified health care property with a taxable reit subsidiary and (2) the manager qualifies as an eligible independent contractor (as defined in the code). if any of these conditions are not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit income tests above. if certain sale-leaseback transactions are not characterized by the internal revenue service as true leases, we may be subject to adverse tax consequences we have purchased certain properties and leased them back to the sellers of such properties, and we may enter into similar transactions in the future. we intend for any such sale-leaseback transaction to be structured in such a manner that the lease will be characterized as a true lease, thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for u.s. federal income tax purposes. however, depending on the terms of any specific transaction, the internal revenue service might take the position that the transaction is not a true lease but is more properly treated in some other manner. in the event any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and successfully re-characterized by the internal revenue service, we would not be entitled to claim the deductions for depreciation and 33 cost recovery generally available to an owner of property. furthermore, if a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the reit asset tests or income tests and, consequently, could lose our reit status effective with the year of re-characterization. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit asset tests and item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit income tests above. alternatively, the amount of our reit taxable income could be recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet the reit annual distribution requirements for a taxable year. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit annual distribution requirements above. the new presidential administration may propose substantial changes to fiscal and tax policies that, if enacted, may adversely affect reits and our business the recently inaugurated u.s. president and his administration have called for substantial changes to fiscal and tax policies, which may include comprehensive tax reform. we cannot predict the impact, if any, of such tax reform to reits or to our business. it is possible that any comprehensive tax reform could adversely affect reits in general or our business specifically. until any such tax reform changes are enacted, we will not know whether we will benefit from, or will be negatively affected by, such changes. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we seek to mitigate the underlying foreign currency exposures with gains and losses on derivative contracts hedging these exposures. we seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. we may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. these decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. this section is a discussion of the risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. for additional information, see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and notes 11 and 16 to our consolidated financial statements. we historically borrow on our primary unsecured credit facility to acquire, construct or make loans relating to health care and seniors housing properties. then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility. we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. the majority of our borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited. a change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt. changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt or equity or repaid by the sale of assets. to illustrate the impact of changes in the interest rate markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our fixed rate debt instruments whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates to determine the instruments' change in fair value. the following table summarizes the analysis performed as of the dates indicated (in thousands): december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 principal balance fair value change principal balance fair value change senior unsecured notes $ 7,568,832 $ (521,203) $ 7,965,107 $ (519,901) secured debt 2,489,276 (73,944) 2,757,123 (91,376) totals $ 10,058,108 $ (595,147) $ 10,722,230 $ (611,277) our variable rate debt, including our primary unsecured credit facility, is reflected at fair value. at december 31, 2016, we had $2,311,996,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt. assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $23,120,000. at december 31, 2015, we had $2,236,733,000 outstanding under our variable rate debt. assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have resulted in increased annual interest expense of $22,367,000. we are subject to currency fluctuations that may, from time to time, affect our financial condition and results of operations. increases or decreases in the value of the canadian dollar or pounds sterling relative to the u.s. dollar impact the amount of net income we earn from our investments in canada and the united kingdom. based solely on our results for the year ended december 31, 2016, including the impact of existing hedging arrangements, if these exchange rates were to increase or decrease by 10%, our net income from these investments would increase or decrease, as applicable, by less than $2,000,000. we will continue to mitigate these underlying foreign currency exposures with non-u.s. denominated borrowings and gains and losses on derivative contracts. if we increase our international presence through investments in, or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing and health care properties outside the u.s., we may also decide to transact additional business or borrow funds in currencies other than u.s. dollars, canadian dollars or pounds sterling. to illustrate the impact of changes in foreign currency markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our derivative portfolio whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in foreign currency exchange rates to determine the instruments' change in fair value. the following table summarizes the results of the analysis performed, excluding cross currency hedge activity (dollars in thousands): december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 carrying value fair value change carrying value fair value change foreign currency exchange contracts $ 87,962 $ 722 $ 117,452 $ 1,915 debt designated as hedges 1,481,591 13,000 1,728,979 13,000 totals $ 1,569,553 $ 13,722 $ 1,846,431 $ 14,915 63risk factors this section discusses the most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial condition. it does not describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our industry or ownership of our securities. if any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not addressed in this section or that we have not yet identified, actually occur, we could be materially adversely affected and the value of our securities could decline. we group these risk factors into three categories: risks arising from our business; risks arising from our capital structure; and risks arising from our status as a reit. risks arising from our business our investments in and acquisitions of health care and seniors housing properties may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our expectations we are exposed to the risk that some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. we could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. if we agree to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project. such expenditures may negatively affect our results of operations. investments in and acquisitions of seniors housing and health care properties entail risks associated with real estate investments generally, including risks that the investment will not achieve expected returns, that the cost estimates for necessary property improvements will prove inaccurate or that the tenant, operator or manager will fail to meet performance expectations. furthermore, there can be no assurance that our anticipated acquisitions and investments, the completion of which is subject to various conditions, will be consummated in accordance with anticipated timing, on anticipated terms, or at all. health care properties are often highly customizable and the development or redevelopment of such properties may require costly tenant-specific improvements. we also may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. as a result, we cannot assure you that we will achieve the economic benefit we expect from acquisitions, investment, development and redevelopment opportunities. all of the foregoing could affect our ability to continue paying dividends at the current rate. our investments in joint ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of exclusive control over these investments, our partners' insolvency or failure to meet their obligations, and disputes between us and our partners we have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other persons or entities. joint venture investments involve risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including the possibility that our partner might become insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when due or otherwise fail to meet its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; that our partner might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged in a dispute with our partner, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such dispute and could have an adverse impact on the operations and profitability of the joint venture; and that our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests. in addition, our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted. in some instances, we and/or our partner may have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner's interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. our ability to acquire our partner's interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. in such event, we may be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. joint ventures may require us to share decision-making authority with our partners, which could limit our ability to control the properties in the joint ventures. even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions may require partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition or financing of a property. we are exposed to operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that could adversely affect our revenue and operations we are exposed to various operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. these risks include fluctuations in occupancy, medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates; economic conditions; competition; federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; the availability and increases in cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage; state regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; and the availability and 13 increases in the cost of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise). any one or a combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue and operations. decreases in our operators' revenues or increases in our operators' expenses could affect our operators' ability to make payments to us our operators' revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, private pay rates, and medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable. expenses for these facilities are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. operating costs continue to increase for our operators. to the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. to the extent the value of such property is reduced, we may need to record an impairment for such asset. furthermore, if we determine to dispose of an underperforming property, such sale may result in a loss. any such impairment or loss on sale would negatively affect our financial results. all of the foregoing could affect our ability to continue paying dividends at the current rate. increased competition and oversupply may affect our operators' ability to meet their obligations to us the operators of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators of properties and other health care providers that provide comparable services for residents and patients, including on the basis of the scope and quality of care and services provided, reputation and financial condition, physical appearance of the properties, price, and location. our operators are expected to encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses. in addition, we expect that there will continue to be a more than adequate inventory of seniors housing facilities. we cannot be certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. if our operators cannot compete effectively or if there is an oversupply of facilities, their financial performance and ability to meet their obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. a severe cold and flu season, epidemics or any other widespread illnesses could adversely affect the occupancy of our seniors housing operating and triple-net properties our and our operators' revenues are dependent on occupancy. it is impossible to predict the severity of the cold and flu season or the occurrence of epidemics or any other widespread illnesses. the occupancy of our seniors housing operating and triple-net properties could significantly decrease in the event of a severe cold and flu season, an epidemic or any other widespread illness. such a decrease could affect the operating income of our seniors housing operating properties and the ability of our triple-net operators to make payments to us. in addition, a flu pandemic could significantly increase the cost burdens faced by our operators, including if they are required to implement quarantines for residents, and adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial results. the insolvency or bankruptcy of our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition we are exposed to the risk that our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers or other obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons. although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies. in addition, if a lease is rejected in a tenant bankruptcy, our claim against the tenant may be limited by applicable provisions of the bankruptcy law. we may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new tenant. in some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. in some of those situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. if we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected. all of the foregoing could affect our ability to continue paying dividends at the current rate. we may not be able to timely reinvest our sale proceeds on terms acceptable to us from time to time, we will have cash available from the proceeds of sales of our securities, principal payments on our loans receivable or the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support 14 arrangements. in order to maintain current revenues and continue generating attractive returns, we expect to re-invest these proceeds in a timely manner. we compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors, including other health care reits, real estate partnerships, health care providers, health care lenders and other investors, including developers, banks, insurance companies, pension funds, government-sponsored entities and private equity firms, some of whom may have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do. this competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. we depend on genesis healthcare ( genesis ) and brookdale senior living ( brookdale ) for a significant portion of our revenues and any failure, inability or unwillingness by them to satisfy obligations under their agreements with us could adversely affect us the properties we lease to genesis and brookdale account for a significant portion of our revenues, and because our leases with genesis and brookdale are triple-net leases, we also depend on genesis and brookdale to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair expenses in connection with the leased properties. we cannot assure you that genesis and brookdale will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable them to make rental payments to us or to otherwise satisfy their respective obligations under our leases, and any failure, inability or unwillingness by genesis or brookdale to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. although the most recent publicly available financial statements of genesis reflect going concern disclosures, the operator remains current on rent and the coverage remains above 1.0. genesis and brookdale have also agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses, and we cannot assure you that genesis and brookdale will have sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable them to satisfy their respective indemnification obligations. genesis's and brookdale's failure to effectively conduct their operations or to maintain and improve our properties could adversely affect their business reputations and their ability to attract and retain patients and residents in our properties, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. additionally, we have made real estate and other loans to genesis and their operational or other failures could adversely impact their ability to repay these loans when due. see note 21 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding genesis. the properties managed by sunrise senior living, llc ( sunrise ) account for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income and any adverse developments in its business or financial condition could adversely affect us as of december 31, 2017, sunrise managed 158 of our seniors housing operating properties. these properties account for a significant portion of our revenues, and we rely on sunrise to manage these properties efficiently and effectively. we also rely on sunrise to set appropriate resident fees, to provide accurate property-level financial results for our properties in a timely manner and to otherwise operate them in compliance with the terms of our management agreements and all applicable laws and regulations. any adverse developments in sunrise's business or financial condition could impair its ability to manage our properties efficiently and effectively, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. also, if sunrise experiences any significant financial, legal, accounting or regulatory difficulties, such difficulties could result in, among other things, acceleration of its indebtedness, impairment of its continued access to capital or the commencement of insolvency proceedings by or against it under the u.s. bankruptcy code, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. see note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. ownership of property outside the u.s. may subject us to different or greater risks than those associated with our domestic operations we have operations in canada and the u.k. international development, ownership, and operating activities involve risks that are different from those we face with respect to our domestic properties and operations. these risks include, but are not limited to, any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a reit; challenges with respect to the repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; changes in foreign political, regulatory, and economic conditions (regionally, nationally and locally) including, but not limited to, the u.k.'s june 2016 vote to exit the eu; challenges in managing international operations; challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to real estate, corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment and other civil and criminal legal proceedings; foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in countries; differences in lending practices and the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide financing; regional or country-specific business cycles and political and economic instability; and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations in the u.s. that affect foreign operations, including, but not limited to, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. if we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with international expansion and operations, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. if our tenants do not renew their existing leases, or if we are required to sell properties for liquidity reasons, we may be unable to lease or sell the properties on favorable terms, or at all 15 we cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times. if these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties or sell them. there can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. real estate investments are relatively illiquid and most of the property we own is highly customized for specific uses. our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in operator, economic and other conditions will be limited. no assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell. our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and health care industries. a downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. all of the foregoing could affect our ability to continue paying dividends at the current rate. our tenants, operators and managers may not have the necessary insurance coverage to insure adequately against losses we maintain or require our tenants, operators and managers to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties and their operations with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are customary for similarly-situated companies in our industry, and we frequently review our insurance programs and requirements. that said, we cannot assure you that we or our tenants, operators or managers will continue to be able to maintain adequate levels of insurance and required coverages or that we will continue to require the same levels of insurance coverage under our lease, management and other agreements, which could adversely affect us in the event of a significant uninsured loss. also, in recent years, long-term/post-acute care and seniors housing operators and managers have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims. as a result, general and professional liability costs have increased in some markets. general and professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the tenants', operators' and managers' future operations, cash flows and financial condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the tenants', operators' and managers' ability to meet their obligations to us. our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground leases we have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. as the lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us. the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as medicare, medicaid or government funding, could have a material adverse effect on our obligors' liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect our obligors' ability to meet their obligations to us some of our obligors' businesses are affected by government reimbursement. to the extent that an operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from government payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, court decisions, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing government investigations and audits at such property. in recent years, government payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures. health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives reimbursement from medicare, medicaid or private payors. significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an obligor's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor to meet its obligations to us. the health reform laws, provide those states that expand their medicaid coverage to otherwise eligible state residents with incomes at or below 138% of the federal poverty level with an increased federal medical assistance percentage, effective january 1, 2014, when certain conditions are met. given that the federal government substantially funds the medicaid expansion, it is unclear how many states will ultimately pursue this option, although, as of early february 2018, more than 60% of the states have expanded medicaid coverage. the participation by states in the medicaid expansion could have the dual effect of increasing our tenants' revenues, through new patients, but further straining state budgets and their ability to pay our tenants. we expect that the current presidential administration and u.s. congress will seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the health reform laws, including medicaid expansion. since taking office, president trump has continued to support the repeal of all or portions of the health reform laws. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states reimbursement above for additional information. if the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our operators and tenants are 16 materially adversely impacted by the health reform laws or future legislation, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected as well. more generally, and because of the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory environment for health care products and services, and in light of existing federal deficit and budgetary concerns, we cannot predict the impact that broad-based, far-reaching legislative or regulatory changes could have on the u.s. economy, our business, or that of our operators and tenants. our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with federal, state, province, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards could adversely affect such operators' or tenants' operations, which could adversely affect our operators' and tenants' ability to meet their obligations to us our operators and tenants generally are subject to varying levels of federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards. our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension, decertification or exclusion from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. such actions may have an effect on our operators' or tenants' ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states fraud &amp; abuse enforcement above. many of our properties may require a license, registration, and/or con to operate. failure to obtain a license, registration, or con, or loss of a required license, registration, or con would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. these events could materially adversely affect our operators' or tenants' ability to make rent or other obligatory payments to us. state and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a con or other similar approval from a state agency. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states licensing and certification above. the real estate market and our business may be negatively impacted by changes to u.s. tax laws the tax act adopted on december 22, 2017 significantly changes the u.s. income tax rules for individuals and corporations. we are continuing to evaluate the impact of the tax act and, as such, its implications for our business remain uncertain. although the tax act involves comprehensive changes to the system of corporate income tax, it does not substantively change the manner in which reits are taxed. although numerous provisions of the tax act do affect reits, we are generally not subject to pay federal taxes applicable to regular corporations if we comply with the tax regulations governing reit status. nonetheless, the tax act makes numerous changes to the individual income tax rules that may affect the real estate market in the u.s., including limitations on the deductibility of state and local property taxes, the elimination of the deductibility of interest on new home equity loans and a reduction in the limit for an individual's mortgage interest expense to interest on $750,000 of mortgages. although the impact of these changes is likely to be most significant in the residential real estate market, rather than in the sectors where we operate, the effects of these changes on the broader real estate market in the geographic areas in which we operate and on our tenants remain uncertain. changes in applicable tax regulations could negatively affect our financial results we are subject to taxation in the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. because, even with the passage of the tax act, the u.s. maintains a worldwide corporate tax system, the foreign and u.s. tax systems are somewhat interdependent. longstanding international norms that determine each country's jurisdiction to tax cross-border international trade are evolving, such as the base erosion and profit shifting project ( beps ) currently being undertaken by the g8, g20 and organization for economic cooperation and development. tax changes pursuant to beps could reduce the ability of our foreign subsidiaries to deduct for foreign tax purposes the interest they pay on loans from us, thereby, increasing the foreign tax liability of the subsidiaries; it is also possible that foreign countries could increase their withholding taxes on dividends and interest. given the unpredictability of these possible changes and their potential interdependency, it is very difficult to assess the overall effect of such potential tax changes on our earnings and cash flow, but such changes could adversely impact our financial results. unfavorable resolution of pending and future litigation matters and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition from time to time, we may be directly involved in a number of legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. we may also be named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our actions or the actions of our operators/tenants or managers in which such operators/tenants or managers have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses. an unfavorable resolution of pending or future litigation or legal proceedings may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management. there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, pending or future litigation. in addition, pending litigation or future litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations. development, redevelopment and construction risks could affect our profitability 17 at any given time, we may be in the process of constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will require a con and license before they can be utilized by the operator for their intended use. the operator also may need to obtain medicare and medicaid certification and enter into medicare and medicaid provider agreements and/or third party payor contracts. in the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary con, licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary provider agreements or contracts or we find and contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use and the necessary provider agreements or contracts. in connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. these factors could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. in addition, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may not be able to complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs. additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such distributions. newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. in deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. in particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy, rental rates and capital costs. if our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate as a result of increases in capital costs or other factors, the property may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. additionally, we may acquire new properties that are not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with that property. we may experience losses caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters, which could result in an increase of our or our tenants' cost of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues or a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property we maintain or require our tenants to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage, and we frequently review our insurance programs and requirements. however, a large number of our properties are located in areas particularly susceptible to revenue loss, cost increase or damage caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes and floods. we believe, given current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside consultants, that our and our tenants' insurance coverage is appropriate to cover reasonably anticipated losses that may be caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, floods and other severe weather conditions and natural disasters, including the effects of climate change. nevertheless, we are always subject to the risk that such insurance will not fully cover all losses and, depending on the severity of the event and the impact on our properties, such insurance may not cover a significant portion of the losses. these losses may lead to an increase of our and our tenants' cost of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues from an affected property and a loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in an affected property. in addition, we or our tenants may not purchase insurance under certain circumstances if the cost of insurance exceeds, in our or our tenants' judgment, the value of the coverage relative to the risk of loss. we may incur costs to remediate environmental contamination at our properties, which could have an adverse effect on our or our obligors' business or financial condition under various laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. we may become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person's relationship to the property. our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property. moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. those assessments are designed to meet the all appropriate inquiry standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material environmental contamination. however, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors. cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business and result in the loss of confidential information our business is at risk from and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential data, and other electronic security breaches, including those resulting from human error, product defects and technology failures. such cyber-attacks can range from individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems to 18 more sophisticated security threats. while we employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing a cyber-attack. cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business, compromise the confidential information of our employees, operators, tenants and partners, damage our reputation and have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed our success depends on the continued availability and service of key personnel, including our executive officers and other highly qualified employees, and competition for their talents is intense. we cannot assure you that we will retain our key personnel or that we will be able to recruit and retain other highly qualified employees in the future. losing any key personnel could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. risks arising from our capital structure our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (restrictions on share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. we may become more leveraged permanent financing for our investments is typically provided through a combination of public offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt. the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or (4) negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the rating agencies. cash available for distributions to stockholders may be insufficient to make dividend contributions at expected levels and are made at the discretion of the board of directors if cash available for distribution generated by our assets decreases due to dispositions or otherwise, we may be unable to make dividend distributions at expected levels. our inability to make expected distributions would likely result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. all distributions are made at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with delaware law and depend on our earnings, our financial condition, debt and equity capital available to us, our expectation of our future capital requirements and operating performance, restrictive covenants in our financial and other contractual arrangements, maintenance of our reit qualification, restrictions under delaware law and other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. additionally, our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein, or other significant adverse events, occur. we are subject to covenants in our debt agreements that could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments. these defaults could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. limitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions; the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; the market price of the shares of our capital stock and the credit ratings of our debt securities; the financial stability of our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us or their willingness to make additional loans to us; changes in the credit ratings on u.s. government debt securities; or default or delay in payment by the u.s. of its obligations. if our access to capital is limited by these factors or other factors, it could negatively impact our ability to acquire properties, repay or refinance our indebtedness, fund operations or make distributions to our stockholders. 19 downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital we plan to manage the company to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. increases in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on our cost of capital an increase in interest rates may increase interest cost on new and existing variable rate debt. such increases in the cost of capital could adversely impact our ability to finance operations, the acquisition and development of properties, and refinance existing debt. additionally, increased interest rates may also result in less liquid property markets, limiting our ability to sell existing assets. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial position. we generate a portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as the canadian dollar and the british pound sterling. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions and/or obtain local currency mortgage debt in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, we cannot assure you that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on us. our entry into hedge agreements may not effectively reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates we enter into hedge agreements from time to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate volatility. these agreements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. when we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a risk that we will not complete the long-term borrowing against which the swap is intended to hedge. if such events occur, our results of operations may be adversely affected. risks arising from our status as a reit we might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit we intend to operate as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), and believe we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. if we lose our status as a reit, we will face serious income tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders because: we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to u.s. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a reit for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. since reit qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of u.s. federal and other income taxes owed. a reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. if we do not qualify as a reit, we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-reit is not required to pay dividends to stockholders in order to maintain reit status or avoid an excise tax. in addition, if we fail to qualify as a reit, all distributions to stockholders would continue to be treated as dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction, and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to long-term capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 20%) with respect to distributions. as a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a reit. although we believe that we qualify as a reit, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes. certain subsidiaries might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit 20 we own interests in a number of entities which have elected to be taxed as reits for u.s. federal income tax purposes, some of which we consolidate for financial reporting purposes but each of which is treated as a separate reit for federal income tax purposes (each a subsidiary reit ). to qualify as a reit, each subsidiary reit must independently satisfy all of the reit qualification requirements under the code, together with all other rules applicable to reits. provided that each subsidiary reit qualifies as a reit, our interests in the subsidiary reits will be treated as qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the reit asset tests. if a subsidiary reit fails to qualify as a reit in any taxable year, such subsidiary reit will be subject to federal and state income taxes and may not be able to qualify as a reit for the four subsequent taxable years. any such failure could have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with the reit income and asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify as a reit, unless we are able to avail ourselves of certain relief provisions. the 90% annual distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions to comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to reits and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders. although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the reit distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement, or we may decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. this may be due to timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. in addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. in the event that timing differences occur, or we deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in another transaction intended to enable us to meet the reit distribution requirements. this may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations. the lease of qualified health care properties to a taxable reit subsidiary is subject to special requirements we lease certain qualified health care properties to taxable reit subsidiaries (or limited liability companies of which the taxable reit subsidiaries are members), which lessees contract with managers (or related parties) to manage the health care operations at these properties. the rents from this taxable reit subsidiary lessee structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property if (1) they are paid pursuant to an arms-length lease of a qualified health care property with a taxable reit subsidiary and (2) the manager qualifies as an eligible independent contractor (as defined in the code). if any of these conditions are not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents. if certain sale-leaseback transactions are not characterized by the internal revenue service ( irs ) as true leases, we may be subject to adverse tax consequences we have purchased certain properties and leased them back to the sellers of such properties, and we may enter into similar transactions in the future. we intend for any such sale-leaseback transaction to be structured in such a manner that the lease will be characterized as a true lease, thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for u.s. federal income tax purposes. however, depending on the terms of any specific transaction, the irs might take the position that the transaction is not a true lease but is more properly treated in some other manner. in the event any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and successfully re-characterized by the irs, we would not be entitled to claim the deductions for depreciation and cost recovery generally available to an owner of property. furthermore, if a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the reit asset tests or income tests and, consequently, could lose our reit status effective with the year of re-characterization. alternatively, the amount of our reit taxable income could be recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet the reit annual distribution requirements for a taxable year. we could be subject to changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities we are subject to taxes in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. our analysis of the tax act may be impacted by any corrective legislation and any guidance provided by the u.s. treasury, the irs or by the general explanation of the tax act, which is under preparation by the staff of the congressional joint committee on taxation. our effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. we are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the irs and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. we regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. if we were subject to review or examination by the irs or applicable foreign jurisdiction as the result of any new tax law changes (including the recently enacted tax act) the ultimate determination of which may change our taxes owed for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued or recorded, our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be adversely affected. 21 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we seek to mitigate the underlying foreign currency exposures with gains and losses on derivative contracts hedging these exposures. we seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. we may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. these decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. this section is a discussion of the risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. for more information, see notes 11 and 16 to our consolidated financial statements. we historically borrow on our primary unsecured credit facility to acquire, construct or make loans relating to health care and seniors housing properties. then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility. we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. the majority of our borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited. a change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt. changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt or equity, or repaid by the sale of assets. to illustrate the impact of changes in the interest rate markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our fixed rate debt instruments whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates to determine the instruments' change in fair value. the following table summarizes the analysis performed as of the dates indicated (in thousands): december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 principal balance fair value change principal balance fair value change senior unsecured notes $ 7,710,219 $ (500,951) $ 7,568,832 $ (521,203) secured debt 1,749,958 (63,492) 2,489,276 (73,944) totals $ 9,460,177 $ (564,443) $ 10,058,108 $ (595,147) our variable rate debt, including our primary unsecured credit facility, is reflected at fair value. at december 31, 2017, we had $2,294,678,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt. assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $22,947,000. at december 31, 2016, we had $2,311,996,000 outstanding under our variable rate debt. assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have resulted in increased annual interest expense of $23,120,000. we are subject to currency fluctuations that may, from time to time, affect our financial condition and results of operations. increases or decreases in the value of the canadian dollar or british pounds sterling relative to the u.s. dollar impact the amount of net income we earn from our investments in canada and the united kingdom. based solely on our results for the year ended december 31, 2017, including the impact of existing hedging arrangements, if these exchange rates were to increase or decrease by 10%, our net income from these investments would increase or decrease, as applicable, by less than $12,000,000. we will continue to mitigate these underlying foreign currency exposures with non-u.s. denominated borrowings and gains and losses on derivative contracts. if we increase our international presence through investments in, or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing and health care properties outside the u.s., we may also decide to transact additional business or borrow funds in currencies other than u.s. dollars, canadian dollars or british pounds sterling. to illustrate the impact of changes in foreign currency markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our derivative portfolio whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in foreign currency exchange rates to determine the instruments' change in fair value. the following table summarizes the results of the analysis performed, excluding cross currency hedge activity (dollars in thousands): december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 carrying value fair value change carrying value fair value change foreign currency exchange contracts $ 23,238 $ 12,929 $ 87,962 $ 722 debt designated as hedges 1,620,273 16,203 1,481,591 13,000 totals $ 1,643,511 $ 29,132 $ 1,569,553 $ 13,722 51risk factors 25 risk factors this section discusses the most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial condition. it does not describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our industry or ownership of our securities. if any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not addressed in this section or that we have not yet identified, actually occur, we could be materially adversely affected and the value of our securities could decline. we group these risk factors into three categories: risks arising from our business; risks arising from our capital structure; and risks arising from our status as a reit. risks arising from our business our investments in and acquisitions of health care and seniors housing properties may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our expectations we are exposed to the risk that some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. we could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. if we agree to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project. such expenditures may negatively affect our results of operations. investments in and acquisitions of seniors housing and health care properties entail risks associated with real estate investments generally, including risks that the investment will not achieve expected returns, that the cost estimates for necessary property improvements will prove inaccurate or that the tenant, operator or manager will fail to meet performance expectations. furthermore, there can be no assurance that our anticipated acquisitions and investments, the completion of which is subject to various conditions, will be consummated in accordance with 25 anticipated timing, on anticipated terms, or at all. health care properties are often highly customizable and the development or redevelopment of such properties may require costly tenant-specific improvements. we also may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. as a result, we cannot assure you that we will achieve the economic benefit we expect from acquisitions, investment, development and redevelopment opportunities. all of the foregoing could affect our ability to continue paying dividends at the current rate. our investments in joint ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of exclusive control over these investments, our partners' insolvency or failure to meet their obligations, and disputes between us and our partners we have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other persons or entities. joint venture investments involve risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including the possibility that our partner might become insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when due or otherwise fail to meet its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; that our partner might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged in a dispute with our partner, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such dispute and could have an adverse impact on the operations and profitability of the joint venture; and that our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests. in addition, our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted. in some instances, we and/or our partner may have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner's interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. our ability to acquire our partner's interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. in such event, we may be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. joint ventures may require us to share decision-making authority with our partners, which could limit our ability to control the properties in the joint ventures. even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions may require partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition or financing of a property. we are exposed to operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that could adversely affect our revenue and operations we are exposed to various operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. these risks include fluctuations in occupancy, medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates; economic conditions; competition; federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; the availability and increases in cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage; state regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; and the availability and increases in the cost of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise). any one or a combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue and operations. decreases in our operators' revenues or increases in our operators' expenses could affect our operators' ability to make payments to us our operators' revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, private pay rates, and medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable. expenses for these facilities are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. operating costs continue to increase for our operators. to the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. to the extent the value of such property is reduced, we may need to record an impairment for such asset. furthermore, if we determine to dispose of an underperforming property, such sale may result in a loss. any such impairment or loss on sale would negatively affect our financial results. all of the foregoing could affect our ability to continue paying dividends at the current rate. increased competition and oversupply may affect our operators' ability to meet their obligations to us the operators of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators of properties and other health care providers that provide comparable services for residents and patients, including on the basis of the scope and quality of care and services provided, reputation and financial condition, physical appearance of the properties, price, and location. our operators are expected to encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses. in addition, we expect that there will continue to be a more than adequate inventory of seniors housing facilities. we cannot be certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. if our operators cannot compete effectively or if there is an oversupply of facilities, their financial performance and ability to meet their obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. a severe cold and flu season, epidemics or any other widespread illnesses could adversely affect the occupancy of our seniors housing operating and triple-net properties 26 our revenues and our operators' revenues are dependent on occupancy. it is impossible to predict the severity of the cold and flu season or the occurrence of epidemics or any other widespread illnesses. the occupancy of our seniors housing operating and triple-net properties could significantly decrease in the event of a severe cold and flu season, an epidemic or any other widespread illness. such a decrease could affect the operating income of our seniors housing operating properties and the ability of our triple-net operators to make payments to us. in addition, a flu pandemic could significantly increase the cost burdens faced by our operators, including if they are required to implement quarantines for residents, and adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial results. the insolvency or bankruptcy of our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition we are exposed to the risk that our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers or other obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons. although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies. in addition, if a lease is rejected in a tenant bankruptcy, our claim against the tenant may be limited by applicable provisions of the bankruptcy law. we may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new tenant. in some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. in some of those situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. if we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected. all of the foregoing could affect our ability to continue paying dividends at the current rate. we may not be able to timely reinvest our sale proceeds on terms acceptable to us from time to time, we will have cash available from the proceeds of sales of our securities, principal payments on our loans receivable or the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. in order to maintain current revenues and continue generating attractive returns, we expect to re-invest these proceeds in a timely manner. we compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors, including other health care reits, real estate partnerships, health care providers, health care lenders and other investors, including developers, banks, insurance companies, pension funds, government-sponsored entities and private equity firms, some of whom may have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do. this competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. the properties managed by sunrise senior living, llc ( sunrise ) account for a significant portion of our revenues and net operating income and any adverse developments in its business or financial condition could adversely affect us as of december 31, 2018 , sunrise managed 161 of our seniors housing operating properties. these properties account for a significant portion of our revenues, and we rely on sunrise to manage these properties efficiently and effectively. we also rely on sunrise to set appropriate resident fees, to provide accurate property-level financial results for our properties in a timely manner and to otherwise operate them in compliance with the terms of our management agreements and all applicable laws and regulations. any adverse developments in sunrise's business or financial condition could impair its ability to manage our properties efficiently and effectively, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. also, if sunrise experiences any significant financial, legal, accounting or regulatory difficulties, such difficulties could result in, among other things, acceleration of its indebtedness, impairment of its continued access to capital or the commencement of insolvency proceedings by or against it under the u.s. bankruptcy code, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. see note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. we depend on genesis healthcare ( genesis ), brookdale senior living ( brookdale ) and promedica health system ("promedica") for a significant portion of our revenues and any failure, inability or unwillingness by them to satisfy obligations under their agreements with us could adversely affect us the properties we lease to genesis, brookdale and promedica account for a significant portion of our revenues, and because these leases are triple-net leases, we also depend on genesis, brookdale and promedica to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair expenses in connection with the leased properties. we cannot assure you that genesis, brookdale and promedica will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable them to make rental payments to us or to otherwise satisfy their respective obligations under our leases, and any failure, inability or unwillingness by genesis, brookdale or promedica 27 to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. genesis, brookdale and promedica have also agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses, and we cannot assure you that genesis, brookdale and promedica will have sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable them to satisfy their respective indemnification obligations. genesis, brookdale and promedica's failure to effectively conduct their operations or to maintain and improve our properties could adversely affect their business reputations and their ability to attract and retain patients and residents in our properties, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. additionally, we have made real estate and other loans to genesis and their operational or other failures could adversely impact their ability to repay these loans when due. ownership of property outside the u.s. may subject us to different or greater risks than those associated with our domestic operations we have operations in canada and the u.k. which represent 10.0% and 9.6% of total welltower revenues, respectively. as of december 31, 2018, revera managed 98 of our seniors housing operating properties in canada, representing a significant portion of our revenues, and also owned a controlling interest in sunrise. international development, ownership, and operating activities involve risks that are different from those we face with respect to our domestic properties and operations. these risks include, but are not limited to, any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a reit; challenges with respect to the repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; changes in foreign political, regulatory, and economic conditions (regionally, nationally and locally) including, but not limited to, continuing uncertainty surrounding the process of brexit and the macroeconomic and regulatory effects of brexit, including impacts on the u.k. real estate market; challenges in managing international operations; challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to real estate, corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment and other civil and criminal legal proceedings; foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in countries; differences in lending practices and the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide financing; regional or country-specific business cycles and political and economic instability; and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations in the u.s. that affect foreign operations, including, but not limited to, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. if we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with international expansion and operations, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. if our tenants do not renew their existing leases, or if we are required to sell properties for liquidity reasons, we may be unable to lease or sell the properties on favorable terms, or at all we cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times. if these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties or sell them. there can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. real estate investments are relatively illiquid and most of the property we own is highly customized for specific uses. our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in operator, economic and other conditions will be limited. no assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell. our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and health care industries. a downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. all of the foregoing could affect our ability to continue paying dividends at the current rate. our tenants, operators and managers may not have the necessary insurance coverage to insure adequately against losses we maintain or require our tenants, operators and managers to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties and their operations with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are customary for similarly-situated companies in our industry, and we frequently review our insurance programs and requirements. that said, we cannot assure you that we or our tenants, operators or managers will continue to be able to maintain adequate levels of insurance and required coverages or that we will continue to require the same levels of insurance coverage under our lease, management and other agreements, which could adversely affect us in the event of a significant uninsured loss. also, in recent years, long-term/post-acute care and seniors housing operators and managers have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims. as a result, general and professional liability costs have increased in some markets. general and professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the tenants', operators' and managers' future operations, cash flows and financial condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the tenants', operators' and managers' ability to meet their obligations to us. our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground leases 28 we have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. as the lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us. the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as medicare, medicaid or government funding, could have a material adverse effect on our obligors' liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect our obligors' ability to meet their obligations to us some of our obligors' businesses are affected by government reimbursement. to the extent that an operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from government payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, court decisions, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities), any lapse in congressional funding of the centers for medicare and medicaid services and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing government investigations and audits at such property. in recent years, government payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures. health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives reimbursement from medicare, medicaid or private payors. significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an obligor's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor to meet its obligations to us. the health reform laws, provide those states that expand their medicaid coverage to otherwise eligible state residents with incomes at or below 138% of the federal poverty level with an increased federal medical assistance percentage, effective january 1, 2014, when certain conditions are met. given that the federal government substantially funds the medicaid expansion, it is unclear how many states will ultimately pursue this option, although, as of early february 2018, more than 60% of the states have expanded medicaid coverage. the participation by states in the medicaid expansion could have the dual effect of increasing our tenants' revenues, through new patients, but further straining state budgets and their ability to pay our tenants. we expect that the current presidential administration and u.s. congress will seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the health reform laws, including medicaid expansion. since taking office, president trump has continued to support the repeal of all or portions of the health reform laws. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states reimbursement above for additional information. if the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our operators and tenants are materially adversely impacted by the health reform laws or future legislation, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected as well. more generally, and because of the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory environment for health care products and services, and in light of existing federal deficit and budgetary concerns, we cannot predict the impact that broad-based, far-reaching legislative or regulatory changes could have on the u.s. economy, our business, or that of our operators and tenants. our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with federal, state, province, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards could adversely affect such operators' or tenants' operations, which could adversely affect our operators' and tenants' ability to meet their obligations to us our operators and tenants generally are subject to varying levels of federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards. our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension, decertification or exclusion from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. such actions may have an effect on our operators' or tenants' ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states fraud &amp; abuse enforcement above. many of our properties may require a license, registration, and/or con to operate. failure to obtain a license, registration, or con, or loss of a required license, registration, or con would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. these events could materially adversely affect our operators' or tenants' ability to make rent or other obligatory payments to us. state and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a con or other similar approval from a state agency. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states licensing and certification above. the real estate market and our business may be negatively impacted by changes to u.s. tax laws the tax cuts and jobs act ("tax act") enacted in december 2017 significantly changes the u.s. income tax rules for individuals and corporations. although the tax act involves comprehensive changes to the system of corporate income tax, it does not substantively change the manner in which reits are taxed. although numerous provisions of the tax act do affect reits, we are 29 generally not subject to federal taxes applicable to regular corporations if we comply with the tax law governing reit status and distribute annually an amount at least equal to our taxable income. nonetheless, the tax act makes numerous changes to the individual income tax rules that may affect the real estate market in the u.s., including limitations on the deductibility of state and local property taxes and interest. although the impact of these changes is likely to be most significant in the residential real estate market, rather than in the sectors where we operate, the effects of these changes on the broader real estate market in the geographic areas in which we operate and on our tenants remain uncertain. changes in applicable tax regulations could negatively affect our financial results we are subject to taxation in the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. because, even with the passage of the tax act, the u.s. maintains a worldwide corporate tax system, the foreign and u.s. tax systems are somewhat interdependent. longstanding international norms that determine each country's jurisdiction to tax cross-border international trade are evolving and could reduce the ability of our foreign subsidiaries to deduct for foreign tax purposes the interest they pay on loans from us, thereby, increasing the foreign tax liability of the subsidiaries; it is also possible that foreign countries could increase their withholding taxes on dividends and interest. given the unpredictability of these possible changes and their potential interdependency, it is very difficult to assess the overall effect of such potential tax changes on our earnings and cash flow, but such changes could adversely impact our financial results. unfavorable resolution of pending and future litigation matters and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition from time to time, we may be directly involved in a number of legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. we may also be named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our actions or the actions of our operators/tenants or managers in which such operators/tenants or managers have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses. an unfavorable resolution of pending or future litigation or legal proceedings may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management. there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, pending or future litigation. in addition, pending litigation or future litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations. development, redevelopment and construction risks could affect our profitability at any given time, we may be in the process of constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will require a con and license before they can be utilized by the operator for their intended use. the operator also may need to obtain medicare and medicaid certification and enter into medicare and medicaid provider agreements and/or third party payor contracts. in the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary con, licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary provider agreements or contracts or we find and contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use and the necessary provider agreements or contracts. in connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. these factors could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. in addition, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may not be able to complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs. additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such distributions. newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. in deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. in particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy, rental rates and capital costs. if our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate as a result of increases in capital costs or other factors, the property may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. additionally, we may acquire new properties that are not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with that property. we may experience losses caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters, which could result in an increase of our or our tenants' cost of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues or a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property 30 we maintain or require our tenants to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage, and we frequently review our insurance programs and requirements. however, a large number of our properties are located in areas particularly susceptible to revenue loss, cost increase or damage caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes and floods. we believe, given current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside consultants, that our and our tenants' insurance coverage is appropriate to cover reasonably anticipated losses that may be caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, floods and other severe weather conditions and natural disasters, including the effects of climate change. nevertheless, we are always subject to the risk that such insurance will not fully cover all losses and, depending on the severity of the event and the impact on our properties, such insurance may not cover a significant portion of the losses. these losses may lead to an increase of our and our tenants' cost of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues from an affected property and a loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in an affected property. in addition, we or our tenants may not purchase insurance under certain circumstances if the cost of insurance exceeds, in our or our tenants' judgment, the value of the coverage relative to the risk of loss. we may incur costs to remediate environmental contamination at our properties, which could have an adverse effect on our or our obligors' business or financial condition under various laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. we may become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person's relationship to the property. our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property. moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. those assessments are designed to meet the all appropriate inquiry standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material environmental contamination. however, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors. cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business and result in the loss of confidential information our business is at risk from and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential data, and other electronic security breaches, including those resulting from human error, product defects and technology failures. such cyber-attacks can range from individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems to more sophisticated security threats. while we employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing a cyber-attack. in the past, we have experienced cybersecurity breaches, which to date have not had a material impact on our operations; however, there is no assurance that such impacts will not be material in the future. cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business, damage our reputation, cause us to incur significant remediation expense and have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. cybersecurity breaches that compromise proprietary, personal identifying or confidential information of our employees, operators, tenants and partners could result in legal claims or proceedings, including under data privacy regulations. our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed our success depends on the continued availability and service of key personnel, including our executive officers and other highly qualified employees, and competition for their talents is intense. we cannot assure you that we will retain our key personnel or that we will be able to recruit and retain other highly qualified employees in the future. losing any key personnel could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. risks arising from our capital structure our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (restrictions on share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. we may become more leveraged permanent financing for our investments is typically provided through a combination of public offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt. the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make 31 us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or (4) negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the rating agencies. cash available for distributions to stockholders may be insufficient to make dividend contributions at expected levels and are made at the discretion of the board of directors if cash available for distribution generated by our assets decreases due to dispositions or otherwise, we may be unable to make dividend distributions at expected levels. our inability to make expected distributions would likely result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. all distributions are made at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with delaware law and depend on our earnings, our financial condition, debt and equity capital available to us, our expectation of our future capital requirements and operating performance, restrictive covenants in our financial and other contractual arrangements, maintenance of our reit qualification, restrictions under delaware law and other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. additionally, our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein, or other significant adverse events, occur. we are subject to covenants in our debt agreements that could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments. these defaults could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. limitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions; the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; the market price of the shares of our capital stock and the credit ratings of our debt securities; the financial stability of our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us or their willingness to make additional loans to us; changes in the credit ratings on u.s. government debt securities; or default or delay in payment by the u.s. of its obligations. if our access to capital is limited by these factors or other factors, it could negatively impact our ability to acquire properties, repay or refinance our indebtedness, fund operations or make distributions to our stockholders. downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital we plan to manage the company to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. increases in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on our cost of capital an increase in interest rates may increase interest cost on new and existing variable rate debt. such increases in the cost of capital could adversely impact our ability to finance operations, the acquisition and development of properties, and refinance existing debt. additionally, increased interest rates may also result in less liquid property markets, limiting our ability to sell existing assets. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial position, including exchange rate fluctuations resulting from brexit. we generate a portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as the canadian dollar and the british pound sterling. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions and/or obtain local currency mortgage debt in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, we cannot assure you that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on us. our entry into hedge agreements may not effectively reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates we enter into hedge agreements from time to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate volatility. these agreements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign 32 currency exchange rates. when we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a risk that we will not complete the long-term borrowing against which the swap is intended to hedge. if such events occur, our results of operations may be adversely affected. risks arising from our status as a reit we might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit we intend to operate as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), and believe we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. if we lose our status as a reit, we will face serious income tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders because: we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to u.s. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; we could be subject to possibly increased state and local taxes; and unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a reit for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. since reit qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of u.s. federal and other income taxes owed. a reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. if we do not qualify as a reit, we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-reit is not required to pay dividends to stockholders in order to maintain reit status or avoid an excise tax. in addition, if we fail to qualify as a reit, all distributions to stockholders would continue to be treated as dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction, and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to long-term capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 20%) with respect to distributions. as a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a reit. although we believe that we qualify as a reit, we cannot assure you that we will remain qualified as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes. certain subsidiaries might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit we own interests in a number of entities which have elected to be taxed as reits for u.s. federal income tax purposes, some of which we consolidate for financial reporting purposes but each of which is treated as a separate reit for federal income tax purposes (each a subsidiary reit ). to qualify as a reit, each subsidiary reit must independently satisfy all of the reit qualification requirements under the code, together with all other rules applicable to reits. provided that each subsidiary reit qualifies as a reit, our interests in the subsidiary reits will be treated as qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the reit asset tests. if a subsidiary reit fails to qualify as a reit in any taxable year, such subsidiary reit will be subject to federal and state income taxes and may not be able to qualify as a reit for the four subsequent taxable years. any such failure could have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with the reit income and asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify as a reit, unless we are able to avail ourselves of certain relief provisions. the 90% annual distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions to comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to reits and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders. although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the reit distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement, or we may decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. this may be due to timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. in addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. in the event that timing differences occur, or we deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in other transactions intended to enable us to meet the reit distribution requirements. this may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations. the lease of qualified health care properties to a taxable reit subsidiary is subject to special requirements 33 we lease certain qualified health care properties to taxable reit subsidiaries (or limited liability companies of which the taxable reit subsidiaries are members), which lessees contract with managers (or related parties) to manage the health care operations at these properties. the rents from this taxable reit subsidiary lessee structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property if (1) they are paid pursuant to an arms-length lease of a qualified health care property with a taxable reit subsidiary and (2) the manager qualifies as an eligible independent contractor (as defined in the code). if any of these conditions are not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents. if certain sale-leaseback transactions are not characterized by the internal revenue service ( irs ) as true leases, we may be subject to adverse tax consequences we have purchased certain properties and leased them back to the sellers of such properties, and we may enter into similar transactions in the future. we intend for any such sale-leaseback transaction to be structured in such a manner that the lease will be characterized as a true lease, thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for u.s. federal income tax purposes. however, depending on the terms of any specific transaction, the irs might take the position that the transaction is not a true lease but is more properly treated in some other manner. in the event any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and successfully re-characterized by the irs, we would not be entitled to claim the deductions for depreciation and cost recovery generally available to an owner of property. furthermore, if a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the reit asset tests or income tests and, consequently, could lose our reit status effective with the year of re-characterization. alternatively, the amount of our reit taxable income could be recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet the reit annual distribution requirements for a taxable year. we could be subject to changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities we are subject to taxes in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. our analysis of the tax act may be impacted by any corrective legislation and any guidance provided by the u.s. treasury and the irs. our effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. we are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the irs and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. we regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. if we were subject to review or examination by the irs or applicable foreign jurisdiction as the result of any new tax law changes (including the recently enacted tax act) the ultimate determination of which may change our taxes owed for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued or recorded, our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we seek to mitigate the underlying foreign currency exposures with gains and losses on derivative contracts hedging these exposures. we seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. we may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. these decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. this section is presented to provide a discussion of the risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. for more information, see notes 11 and 16 to our consolidated financial statements. we historically borrow on our primary unsecured credit facility to acquire, construct or make loans relating to health care and seniors housing properties. then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility and new commercial paper program. we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. the majority of our borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited. a change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt. changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt or equity or repaid by the sale of assets. to illustrate the impact of changes in the interest rate markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our fixed rate debt instruments whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates to determine the instruments' change in fair value. the following table summarizes the analysis performed as of the dates indicated (in thousands): december 31, 2018 december 31, 2017 principal balance fair value change principal balance fair value change senior unsecured notes $ 9,009,159 $ (548,558 ) $ 7,710,219 $ (500,951 ) secured debt 1,639,983 (59,522 ) 1,749,958 (63,492 ) totals $ 10,649,142 $ (608,080 ) $ 9,460,177 $ (564,443 ) our variable rate debt, including our primary unsecured credit facility, is reflected at fair value. at december 31, 2018 , we had $ 2,683,553,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt. assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $ 26,836,000 . at december 31, 2017 , we had $ 2,294,678,000 outstanding under our variable rate debt. assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have resulted in increased annual interest expense of $ 22,947,000 . we are subject to currency fluctuations that may, from time to time, affect our financial condition and results of operations. increases or decreases in the value of the canadian dollar or british pounds sterling relative to the u.s. dollar impact the amount of net income we earn from our investments in canada and the united kingdom. based solely on our results for the year ended december 31, 2018 , including the impact of existing hedging arrangements, if these exchange rates were to increase or decrease by 10%, our net income from these investments would increase or decrease, as applicable, by less than $ 10,000,000 . we will continue to mitigate these underlying foreign currency exposures with non-u.s. denominated borrowings and gains and losses on derivative contracts. if we increase our international presence through investments in, or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing and health care properties outside the u.s., we may also decide to transact additional business or borrow funds in currencies other than u.s. dollars, canadian dollars or british pounds sterling. to illustrate the impact of changes in foreign currency markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our derivative portfolio whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in foreign currency exchange rates to determine the instruments' change in fair value. the following table summarizes the results of the analysis performed, excluding cross currency hedge activity (dollars in thousands): december 31, 2018 december 31, 2017 carrying value fair value change carrying value fair value change foreign currency exchange contracts $ 23,620 $ 16,163 $ 23,238 $ 12,929 debt designated as hedges 1,559,159 15,592 1,620,273 16,203 totals $ 1,582,779 $ 31,755 $ 1,643,511 $ 29,132 60risk factors 23 risk factors this section highlights significant factors, events and uncertainties that could create risk with an investment in our securities. the events and consequences discussed in these risk factors could, in circumstances we may not be able to accurately predict, recognize or control, have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, reputation, prospects, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, liquidity, ability to pay dividends and stock price. these risk factors do not identify all risks that we face: our operations could also be affected by factors, events or uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider to present significant risks to our operations. we group these risk factors into three categories: risks arising from our business; risks arising from our capital structure; and risks arising from our status as a reit. 23 risks arising from our business our investments in and acquisitions of health care and seniors housing properties may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our expectations we are exposed to the risk that some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. we could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. if we agree to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project. such expenditures may negatively affect our results of operations. investments in and acquisitions of seniors housing and health care properties entail risks associated with real estate investments generally, including risks that the investment will not achieve expected returns, that the cost estimates for necessary property improvements will prove inaccurate or that the tenant, operator or manager will fail to meet performance expectations. furthermore, there can be no assurance that our anticipated acquisitions and investments, the completion of which is subject to various conditions, will be consummated in accordance with anticipated timing, on anticipated terms, or at all. we may be unable to obtain or assume financing for acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. health care properties are often highly customizable and the development or redevelopment of such properties may require costly tenant-specific improvements. we also may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. acquired properties may be located in new markets, either within or outside the united states, where we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationships in the area, costs associated with opening a new regional office and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. as a result, we cannot assure you that we will achieve the economic benefit we expect from acquisitions, investment, development and redevelopment opportunities. acquired properties may expose us to unknown liability we may acquire properties or invest in joint ventures that own properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, against the prior owners or other third parties with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle or contest it, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. unknown liabilities with respect to acquired properties might include: liabilities for clean up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties, liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. competition for acquisitions may result in increased prices for properties we may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other well-capitalized investors, including publicly traded and privately held reits, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors. this competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors and, even if we are able to acquire a desired property, competition from other real estate investors may significantly increase the purchase price. our investments in joint ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of exclusive control over these investments, our partners' insolvency or failure to meet their obligations, and disputes between us and our partners we have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other persons or entities. joint venture investments involve risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including the possibility that our partner might become insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when due or otherwise fail to meet its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; that our partner might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged in a dispute with our partner, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such dispute and could have an adverse impact on the operations and profitability of the joint venture; that our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests; and that our joint venture partners may be structured differently than us for tax purposes, which could create conflicts of interest and risks to our reit status. in some instances, we and/or our partner may have the right to trigger a buy-sell, put right or forced sale arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, acquire our partner's interest or sell the underlying asset at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. our ability to acquire our partner's interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. in such event, we may be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. on the other hand, our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted and the market for our interest may be limited and/or valued lower than fair market value. joint ventures may require us to share decision-making authority with our partners, which could limit our ability to control the properties in the joint ventures. even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions may require partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition or financing of a property. 24 we are exposed to operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that could adversely affect our revenue and operations we are exposed to various operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. these risks include fluctuations in occupancy, medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates; economic conditions; competition; federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; the availability and increases in cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage; state regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; and the availability and increases in the cost of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise). any one or a combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue and operations. we assume operational and legal risks with respect to our properties managed in ridea structures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition we have entered into various joint ventures that were structured under the provisions of the reit investment diversification and empowerment act of 2007 ( ridea ), which permits reits to own or partially own qualified health care properties in a structure through which we can participate directly in the cash flow of the properties' operations (as compared to receiving only contractual rent payments) in compliance with reit requirements. a qualified health care property includes real property and any personal property that is, or is necessary or incidental to the use of, a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility which extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients. under a ridea structure, we are required to rely on our operator to manage and operate the property, including complying with laws and providing resident care. however, as the owner of the property under a ridea structure, we are responsible for operational and legal risks and liabilities of the property, including, but not limited to, those relating to employment matters of our operators, compliance with health care fraud and abuse and other laws, governmental reimbursement matters, compliance with federal, state, local and industry-related licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards, and litigation involving our properties or residents/patients, even though we have limited ability to control or influence our operators' management of these risks. further, our taxable reit subsidiary ( trs ) is generally required to hold the applicable health care license and enroll in the applicable government health care programs (e.g., medicare and medicaid), which subjects us to potential liability under various health care regulatory laws. penalties for failure to comply with applicable laws may include loss or suspension of licenses and certificates of need, certification or accreditation, exclusion from government health care programs (e.g., medicare and medicaid), administrative sanctions and civil monetary penalties. although we have some general oversight approval rights and the right to review operational and financial reporting information, our operators are ultimately in control of the day-to-day business of the property, including clinical decision-making, we rely on them to operate the properties in compliance with a manner that complies with applicable law. decreases in our operators' revenues or increases in our operators' expenses could affect our operators' ability to make payments to us we have very limited control over the success or failure of our operators' businesses and, at any time, an operator may experience a downturn in its business that weakens its financial condition. our operators' revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, private pay rates, and medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable. expenses for these facilities are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. operating costs continue to increase for our operators. to the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. to the extent the value of such property is reduced, we may need to record an impairment for such asset. furthermore, if we determine to dispose of an underperforming property, such sale may result in a loss. any such impairment or loss on sale would negatively affect our financial results. these risks are magnified where we lease multiple properties to a single operator under a master lease, as an operator failure or default under a master lease would expose us to these risks across multiple properties. although our lease agreements give us the right to exercise certain remedies in the event of default on the obligations owing to us, we may determine not to do so if we believe that enforcement of our rights would be more detrimental to our business than seeking alternative approaches. increased competition and oversupply may affect our operators' ability to meet their obligations to us the operators of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators of properties and other health care providers that provide comparable services for residents and patients, including on the basis of the scope and quality of care and services provided, reputation and financial condition, physical appearance of the properties, price, and location. our operators are expected to encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses. in addition, we expect that there will continue to be a more than adequate inventory of seniors housing facilities. we cannot be certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to 25 meet all of their obligations to us. if our operators cannot compete effectively or if there is an oversupply of facilities, their financial performance and ability to meet their obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. a severe cold and flu season, epidemics or any other widespread illnesses could adversely affect the occupancy of our seniors housing operating and triple-net properties our revenues and our operators' revenues are dependent on occupancy. it is impossible to predict the severity of the cold and flu season or the occurrence of epidemics or any other widespread illnesses. the occupancy of our seniors housing operating and triple-net properties could significantly decrease in the event of a severe cold and flu season, an epidemic or any other widespread illness. such a decrease could affect the operating income of our seniors housing operating properties and the ability of our triple-net operators to make payments to us. in addition, a flu pandemic could significantly increase the cost burdens faced by our operators, including if they are required to implement quarantines for residents, and adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial results. the insolvency or bankruptcy of our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition we are exposed to the risk that our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers or other obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons. although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies. in addition, if a lease is rejected in a tenant bankruptcy, our claim against the tenant may be limited by applicable provisions of the bankruptcy law. we may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new tenant. in some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. in some of those situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. if we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. publicity about the operator's financial condition and insolvency proceedings may also negatively impact their and our reputations, decreasing customer demand and revenues. should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected. we may not be able to timely reinvest our sale proceeds on terms acceptable to us from time to time, we will have cash available from the proceeds of sales of our securities, principal payments on our loans receivable or the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. in order to maintain current revenues and continue generating attractive returns, we expect to reinvest these proceeds in a timely manner. we compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors, including other health care reits, real estate partnerships, health care providers, health care lenders and other investors, including developers, banks, insurance companies, pension funds, government-sponsored entities and private equity firms, some of whom may have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do. this competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. the properties managed by sunrise senior living, llc ( sunrise ) account for a significant portion of our revenues and net operating income and any adverse developments in its business or financial condition could adversely affect us as of december 31, 2019 , sunrise managed 165 of our seniors housing operating properties. these properties account for a significant portion of our revenues and net operating income. although we have various rights as the property owner under our management agreements, we rely on sunrise's personnel, expertise, technical resources and information systems, proprietary information, good faith and judgment to manage our seniors housing operating properties efficiently and effectively. we also rely on sunrise to set appropriate resident fees, to provide accurate property-level financial results for our properties in a timely manner and to otherwise operate them in compliance with the terms of our management agreements and all applicable laws and regulations. any adverse developments in sunrise's business or financial condition could impair its ability to manage our properties efficiently and effectively, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. for example, we depend on sunrise's ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel who are responsible for the day-to-day operations of our seniors housing operating properties. a shortage of nurses or other trained personnel or general inflationary pressures may force sunrise to enhance its pay and benefits packages to compete effectively for such personnel, but it may not be able to offset these added costs by increasing the rates charged to residents. any increase in labor costs and other property operating expenses, any failure by sunrise to attract and retain qualified personnel, or significant changes in sunrise's senior management or equity ownership could adversely affect the income we receive from our seniors housing operating properties and have a material adverse effect on us. also, if sunrise experiences any significant financial, legal, accounting or regulatory difficulties, such difficulties 26 could result in, among other things, acceleration of its indebtedness, impairment of its continued access to capital or the commencement of insolvency proceedings by or against it under the u.s. bankruptcy code, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we determine to sell or transition additional properties currently managed by sunrise, we may experience operational challenges and/or significantly declining financial performance for those properties. see note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. we depend on promedica health system ("promedica") and genesis healthcare ( genesis ) for a significant portion of our revenues and any failure, inability or unwillingness by them to satisfy obligations under their agreements with us could adversely affect us the properties we lease to promedica and genesis account for a significant portion of our revenues, and because these leases are triple-net leases, we also depend on promedica and genesis to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair expenses in connection with the leased properties. we cannot assure you that promedica and genesis will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable them to make rental payments to us or to otherwise satisfy their respective obligations under our leases, and any failure, inability or unwillingness by promedica and genesis to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. promedica and genesis have also agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses, and we cannot assure you that promedica and genesis will have sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable them to satisfy their respective indemnification obligations. promedica and genesis's failure to effectively conduct their operations or to maintain and improve our properties could adversely affect their business reputations and their ability to attract and retain patients and residents in our properties, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. additionally, we have made real estate and other loans to genesis and their operational or other failures could adversely impact their ability to repay these loans when due. ownership of property outside the u.s. may subject us to different or greater risks than those associated with our domestic operations we have operations in the u.k. and canada which represent 8.8% and 9.1% of total welltower revenues, respectively. as of december 31, 2019, revera managed 94 of our seniors housing operating properties in canada, representing a significant portion of our revenues, and also owned a controlling interest in sunrise. international development, ownership, and operating activities involve risks that are different from those we face with respect to our domestic properties and operations. these risks include, but are not limited to, any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates, which may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test required for us to satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a reit; challenges with respect to the repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; impact from international trade disputes and the associated impact on our tenants' supply chain and consumer spending levels; changes in foreign political, regulatory, and economic conditions (regionally, nationally and locally) including, but not limited to, continuing uncertainty surrounding the process of brexit and the macroeconomic and regulatory effects of brexit, including impacts on the u.k. real estate market; challenges in managing international operations; challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to real estate, corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment and other civil and criminal legal proceedings; foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in foreign countries; local businesses and cultural factors that differ from our usual standards and practices; differences in lending practices and the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide financing; regional or country-specific business cycles and political and economic instability; and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations in the u.s. that affect foreign operations, including, but not limited to, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. if we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with international expansion and operations, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the business and financial results of our operations located in the u.k. may be negatively impacted as a result of brexit the u.k.'s referendum on withdrawal from the eu in 2016 (commonly referred to as brexit ), and subsequent notification of the u.k.'s intention to withdraw from the eu given in march 2017, have adversely impacted global markets and foreign currencies. the terms governing the future relationship between the u.k. and the eu, as well as the legal and economic consequences of those terms, remain unclear, including with respect to the post-brexit regulatory environment in the u.k. it is possible that the level of health care and other economic activity in the u.k. and the rest of europe will be adversely impacted and that we will face increased regulatory and legal complexities in these regions which could have an adverse impact on the financial condition and results of operations of our properties in the u.k. moreover, the value of the british pound sterling incurred significant fluctuations. if the value of the british pound sterling continues to incur similar fluctuations, unfavorable exchange rate changes may negatively affect the value of our operations located in the u.k., as translated to our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar, in accordance with u.s. gaap, which may impact the revenue and earnings we report. continued fluctuations in the british pound sterling may also result in the imposition of price adjustments by e.u.-based suppliers to our u.k. operations, as those suppliers seek to compensate for the changes in value of the british pound sterling as compared to the european euro. 27 if our tenants do not renew their existing leases, or if we are required to sell properties for liquidity reasons, we may be unable to lease or sell the properties on favorable terms, or at all we cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times. if these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties, or sell them. there can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. our competitors may offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose potential customers, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge to retain customers when leases expire. in addition, our ability to reposition our properties with a suitable replacement tenant or operator could be significantly delayed or limited by state licensing, receivership, con or other laws, as well as by the medicare and medicaid change-of-ownership rules, and we could incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any licensing, receivership or change-of-ownership proceedings. even if tenants decide to renew or lease new space, the terms of renewals or new leases, including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants, may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. real estate investments are relatively illiquid and most of the property we own is highly customized for specific uses. our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in operator, economic and other conditions will be limited. no assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell. our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and health care industries. a downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. our tenants, operators and managers may not have the necessary insurance coverage to insure adequately against losses we maintain or require our tenants, operators and managers to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties and their operations with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are customary for similarly situated companies in our industry and we frequently review our insurance programs and requirements. our tenants, operators and manager may not be able to maintain adequate levels of insurance and required coverages. also, we may not be able to require the same levels of insurance coverage under our lease, management and other agreements, which could adversely affect us in the event of a significant uninsured loss. we cannot make any guarantee as to the future financial viability of the insurers that underwrite our policies and the policies maintained by our tenants, operators and managers. insurance may not be available at a reasonable cost in the future or policies may not be maintained at a level that will fully cover all losses on our properties upon the occurrence of a catastrophic event. this may be especially the case due to increases in property insurance costs. in addition, in recent years, long-term/post-acute care and seniors housing operators and managers have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims. as a result, general and professional liability costs have increased in some markets. general and professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the tenants', operators' and managers' future operations, cash flows and financial conditions, and may have a material adverse effect on the tenants', operators' and managers' ability to meet their obligations to us. our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground leases we have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. many of these ground leases impose significant limitations on our uses of the subject properties, restrict our ability to sell or otherwise transfer our interests in the properties or restrict the leasing of the properties. these restrictions may limit our ability to timely sell or exchange the properties, impair the properties' value or negatively impact our ability to find suitable tenants for the properties. as the lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us. the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as medicare, medicaid or government funding, could have a material adverse effect on our obligors' liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect our obligors' ability to meet their obligations to us some of our obligors' businesses are affected by government reimbursement. to the extent that an operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from government payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, court decisions, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities), any lapse in congressional funding of the centers for medicare and medicaid services and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing government investigations and audits at such property. in recent years, government payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures. federal and state authorities may continue seeking to implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies that may negatively impact health care property operations. see item 1 - business - certain government regulations - united states - reimbursement 28 above for additional information. health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives reimbursement from medicare, medicaid or private payors. significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an obligor's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor to meet its obligations to us. since january 1, 2014, the health reform laws have provided those states that expand their medicaid coverage to otherwise eligible state residents with incomes at or below 138% of the federal poverty level with an increased federal medical assistance percentage, effective january 1, 2014, when certain conditions are met. given that the federal government substantially funds the medicaid expansion, it is unclear how many states will ultimately pursue this option, although, as of early january 2020, more than 70% of the states have expanded medicaid coverage. the participation by states in the medicaid expansion could have the dual effect of increasing our tenants' revenues, through new patients, but further straining state budgets and their ability to pay our tenants. the status of the health reform laws may be subject to change as a result of political, legislative, regulatory, and administrative developments and judicial proceedings. the current presidential administration and u.s. congress have sought to and may continue to seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the health reform laws, including medicaid expansion. since taking office, president trump has continued to support the repeal of all or portions of the health reform laws. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states reimbursement above for additional information. if the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our operators and tenants are materially adversely impacted by the health reform laws or future legislation, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected as well. more generally, and because of the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory environment for health care products and services, and in light of existing federal deficit and budgetary concerns, we cannot predict the impact that broad-based, far-reaching legislative or regulatory changes could have on the u.s. economy, our business, or that of our operators and tenants. if controls imposed on certain of our tenants who provide health care services that are reimbursed by medicare, medicaid and other third-party payors to reduce admissions and length of stay affect inpatient volumes at our health care facilities, the financial condition or results of operations of those tenants could be adversely affected controls imposed by medicare, medicaid and commercial third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as utilization reviews, have affected and are expected to continue to affect certain of our health care facilities, specifically our acute care hospitals and post-acute facilities. utilization review entails the review of the admission and course of treatment of a patient by managed care plans. inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by payor pressures to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. efforts to impose more stringent cost controls and reductions are expected to continue, which could negatively impact the financial condition of our tenants who provide health care services in our hospitals and post-acute facilities. if so, this could adversely affect these tenants' ability and willingness to comply with the terms of their leases with us and/or renew those leases upon expiration, which could have a material adverse effect on us. our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with federal, state, province, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards could adversely affect such operators' or tenants' operations, which could adversely affect our operators' and tenants' ability to meet their obligations to us our operators and tenants generally are subject to or impacted by varying levels of federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards. these laws and regulations include, among others: laws protecting consumers against deceptive practices; laws relating to the operation of our properties and how our tenants and operators conduct their business, such as fire, health and safety, data security and privacy laws; federal and state laws affecting hospitals, clinics and other health care communities that participate in both medicare and medicaid that specify reimbursement rates, pricing, reimbursement procedures and limitations, quality of services and care, background checks, food service and physical plants, and similar foreign laws regulating the health care industry; resident rights laws (including abuse and neglect laws) and fraud laws; anti-kickback and physician referral laws; the ada and similar state and local laws; and safety and health standards set by the occupational safety and health administration or similar foreign agencies. our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension, decertification or exclusion from federal and state health care programs, civil liability, and in certain limited instances, criminal penalties, loss of license, closure of the facility and/or the incurrence of considerable costs arising from an investigation or regulatory action. such actions may have an effect on our operators' or tenants' ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. in addition, we may be directly subject to certain health care fraud and abuse laws and data privacy laws, as well as potential investigation or enforcement, as a result of our ridea-structured arrangements, and certain other arrangements we may pursue with healthcare entities who are directly subject to these laws. see item 1 - business - certain government regulations 29 - united states - fraud &amp; abuse enforcement and item 1 - business - certain government regulations - united states - health care matters - generally above. many of our properties may require a license, registration, and/or con to operate. failure to obtain a license, registration, or con, or loss of a required license, registration, or con would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. these events could materially adversely affect our operators' or tenants' ability to make rent or other obligatory payments to us. state and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a con or other similar approval from a state agency. see item 1 business certain government regulations united states licensing and certification above. in addition, we cannot assure you that future changes in government regulation will not adversely affect the health care industry, including our tenants and operators, nor can we be certain that our tenants and operators will achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels or labor cost levels that will enable them to satisfy their obligations to us. changes in applicable tax regulations could negatively affect our financial results we are subject to taxation in the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. because the u.s. maintains a worldwide corporate tax system, the foreign and u.s. tax systems are somewhat interdependent. longstanding international norms that determine each country's jurisdiction to tax cross-border international trade are evolving and could reduce the ability of our foreign subsidiaries to deduct for foreign tax purposes the interest they pay on loans from us, thereby increasing the foreign tax liability of the subsidiaries; it is also possible that foreign countries could increase their withholding taxes on dividends and interest. given the unpredictability of these possible changes and their potential interdependency, it is very difficult to assess the overall effect of such potential tax changes on our earnings and cash flow, but such changes could adversely impact our financial results. unfavorable resolution of pending and future litigation matters and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition from time to time, we are directly involved in legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. we also are named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our actions or the actions of our operators/tenants or managers in which such operators/tenants or managers have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses. there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, pending or future litigation. in addition, pending litigation or future litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations. an unfavorable resolution of pending or future litigation or legal proceedings may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses, significantly divert the attention of management, and could damage our reputation and our brand. in addition, any such resolution could involve our agreement to terms that restrict the operation of our business. we cannot guarantee losses incurred in connection with any current or future legal or regulatory proceedings or actions will not exceed any provisions we may have set aside in respect of such proceedings or actions or will not exceed any available insurance coverage. development, redevelopment and construction risks could affect our profitability in connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. these factors could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. in addition, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may not be able to complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs. additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such distributions. we may be unable to obtain financing with favorable terms, or at all, for the proposed development, which may cause us to delay or abandon an opportunity. newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. in deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. in particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy, rental rates and capital costs. if our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate as a result of increases in capital costs or other factors, the property may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. additionally, we may acquire new properties that are not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with that property. 30 new facilities that we construct often require a con and license before they can be utilized by the operator for their intended use. the operator also may need to obtain medicare and medicaid certification and enter into medicare and medicaid provider agreements and/or third-party payor contracts. in the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary con, licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary provider agreements or contracts or we find and contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use and the necessary provider agreements or contracts. we may experience losses caused by severe weather conditions, natural disasters or the physical effects of climate change, which could result in an increase of our or our tenants' cost of insurance, unanticipated costs associated with evacuation, a decrease in our anticipated revenues or a significant loss of the capital we have invested in a property we maintain or require our tenants to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage, and we frequently review our insurance programs and requirements. however, a large number of our properties are located in areas particularly susceptible to revenue loss, cost increase or damage caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes and floods, as well as the effects of climate change. we believe, given current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside consultants, that our and our tenants' insurance coverage is appropriate to cover reasonably anticipated losses that may be caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, floods and other severe weather conditions and natural disasters, including the effects of climate change. nevertheless, we are always subject to the risk that such insurance will not fully cover all losses and, depending on the severity of the event and the impact on our properties, such insurance may not cover a significant portion of the losses including but not limited to the costs associated with evacuation. these losses may lead to an increase of our and our tenants' cost of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues from an affected property and a loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in an affected property. in addition, we or our tenants may not purchase insurance under certain circumstances if the cost of insurance exceeds, in our or our tenants' judgment, the value of the coverage relative to the risk of loss. also, changes in federal and state legislation and regulation relating to climate change could result in increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency and resiliency of our existing properties and could also necessitate us to spend more on our new development properties without a corresponding increase in revenue. to the extent that significant changes in the climate occur in areas where our communities are located, we may experience extreme weather and changes in precipitation and temperature, all of which may result in physical damage to or a decrease in demand for properties located in these areas or affected by these conditions. should the impact of climate change be material in nature, including significant property damage to or destruction of our communities, or occur for lengthy periods of time, our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, changes in federal, state and local legislation and regulation based on concerns about climate change could result in increased capital expenditures on our existing properties and our new development properties without a corresponding increase in revenue, resulting in adverse impacts to our net income. we may incur costs to remediate environmental contamination at our properties, which could have an adverse effect on our or our obligors' business or financial condition under various laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. we may become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person's relationship to the property. our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property. moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. those assessments are designed to meet the all appropriate inquiry standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material environmental contamination. however, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors. cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business and result in the loss of confidential information our business is at risk from and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential data through phishing or other malicious activity, attempts to interrupt our access to or use of it systems through distributed denial-of-service or ransomware attacks, breaches related to our increased receipt and use of data from multiple sources, and other electronic security breaches or other cybersecurity incidents, including those resulting from human error, product defects and technology failures. such cyber-attacks can range from individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems to more sophisticated security threats, and may be specifically targeted to our business or more general industry wide risks. our information technology networks and related systems are essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations of our business. while we employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, there is no guarantee such 31 efforts will be successful in preventing a cyber-attack. even the most well-protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted cybersecurity breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate cybersecurity barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. in the past, we have experienced cybersecurity breaches, which to date have not had a material impact on our operations; however, there is no assurance that such impacts will not be material in the future. we must continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption. cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business, damage our reputation, cause us to incur significant remediation expense and have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. cybersecurity breaches that compromise proprietary, personal identifying or confidential information of our employees, operators, tenants and partners could result in legal claims or proceedings, including under data privacy regulations. our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed our success depends on the continued availability and service of key personnel, including our executive officers and other highly qualified employees, and competition for their talents is intense. there is substantial competition for qualified personnel. we cannot assure you that we will retain our key personnel or that we will be able to recruit and retain other highly qualified employees in the future. losing any key personnel could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. risks arising from our capital structure our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (restrictions on share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. we may become more leveraged permanent financing for our investments is typically provided through a combination of public offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt. the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, (4) negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the rating agencies or (5) make us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates because of the variable interest rates on some of our borrowings to the extent we have not entirely hedged such variable rate debt. cash available for distributions to stockholders may be insufficient to make dividend contributions at expected levels and are made at the discretion of the board of directors if cash available for distribution generated by our assets decreases due to dispositions or otherwise, we may be unable to make dividend distributions at expected levels. our inability to make expected distributions would likely result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. all distributions are made at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with delaware law and depend on our earnings, our financial condition, debt and equity capital available to us, our expectation of our future capital requirements and operating performance, restrictive covenants in our financial and other contractual arrangements, maintenance of our reit qualification, restrictions under delaware law and other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. additionally, our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein, or other significant adverse events, occur. we are subject to covenants in our debt agreements that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments. these defaults could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. limitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions; the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; the market price of the shares of our common stock and the credit 32 ratings of our debt securities; changes in the credit ratings on u.s. government debt securities; uncertainty from the expected discontinuance of libor and the transition to any other interest rate benchmark; and default or delay in payment by the u.s. of its obligations. we also rely on the financial institutions that are parties to our revolving credit facilities. if these institutions become capital constrained, tighten their lending standards or become insolvent or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from other borrowers within a short period of time, they may be unable or unwilling to honor their funding commitments to us, which would adversely affect our ability to draw on our revolving credit facilities and, over time, could negatively impact our ability to consummate acquisitions, repay indebtedness as it matures, fund capital expenditures or make distributions to our stockholders. if our access to capital is limited by these factors or other factors, it could negatively impact our ability to acquire properties, repay or refinance our indebtedness, fund operations or make distributions to our stockholders. changes affecting the availability of the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) may have consequences for us that cannot yet reasonably be predicted we have outstanding debt, hedge agreements and receivable transactions with variable interest rates based on libor. the libor benchmark has been subject of national, international, and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. in july 2017, the u.k. financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, announced that it intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021. these reforms may cause libor to perform differently than in the past and libor may ultimately cease to exist after 2021. while it is not currently possible to determine precisely whether, or to what extent, the withdrawal and replacement of libor would affect us, the implementation of alternative benchmark rates to libor may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. any new benchmark rate will likely not replicate libor exactly, which could impact contracts that terminate after 2021. there is uncertainty about how applicable law, the courts or we will address the replacement of libor with alternative rates on agreements that do not include alternative rate fallback provisions. in addition, any changes to benchmark rates may have an uncertain impact on our cost of funds and our access to the capital markets, which could impact our results of operations and cash flows. uncertainty as to the nature of such potential changes may also adversely affect the trading market for our securities. additional financing, therefore, may be unavailable, more expensive or restricted by the terms of our outstanding indebtedness. downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our cost and availability of capital we plan to manage the company to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse effect on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, cash flows, the trading/redemption price of our securities and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our equity holders. increases in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our cost of capital an increase in interest rates may increase interest cost on new and existing variable rate debt. such increases in the cost of capital could adversely impact our ability to finance operations, acquire and develop properties, and refinance existing debt. additionally, increased interest rates may also result in less liquid property markets, limiting our ability to sell existing assets. fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial position, including exchange rate fluctuations resulting from brexit. we generate a portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as the canadian dollar and the british pound sterling. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions and/or obtain local currency mortgage debt in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, we cannot assure you that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on us. our entry into hedge agreements may not effectively reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates we enter into hedge agreements from time to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate volatility. these agreements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that the amount of income we earn from hedging transactions may be limited by federal tax provisions governing reits, and that these arrangements may cause us to pay higher interest rates on our debt obligations than otherwise would be the case. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. when we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a risk that we will not complete the long-term borrowing against which the swap is intended to hedge. if such events occur, our results of operations may be adversely affected. 33 risks arising from our status as a reit we might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit we intend to operate as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), and believe we have operated and will continue to operate in such a manner. if we lose our status as a reit, we will face serious income tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders because: we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to u.s. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; we would be subject to increased state and local taxes; and unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a reit for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. since reit qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of u.s. federal and other income taxes owed. a reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. if we do not qualify as a reit, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders, since a non-reit is not required to pay dividends to stockholders in order to maintain reit status or avoid an excise tax. in addition, if we fail to qualify as a reit, all distributions to stockholders will continue to be treated as dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction, and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to long-term capital gains with respect to distributions. as a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a reit. although we believe that we qualify as a reit, we cannot assure you that we will remain qualified as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes. certain subsidiaries might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit we own interests in a number of entities which have elected to be taxed as reits for u.s. federal income tax purposes, some of which we consolidate for financial reporting purposes but each of which is treated as a separate reit for federal income tax purposes (each a subsidiary reit ). to qualify as a reit, each subsidiary reit must independently satisfy all of the reit qualification requirements under the code, together with all other rules applicable to reits. provided that each subsidiary reit qualifies as a reit, our interests in the subsidiary reits will be treated as qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the reit asset tests. if a subsidiary reit fails to qualify as a reit in any taxable year, such subsidiary reit will be subject to federal and state income taxes and may not be able to qualify as a reit for the four subsequent taxable years. any such failure could have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with the reit income and asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify as a reit, unless we are able to avail ourselves of certain relief provisions. the 90% annual distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions to comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to reits and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders. although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the reit distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement. this may be due to timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. in addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. in the event that timing differences occur, or we deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow funds, even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings, issue additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in other transactions intended to enable us to meet the reit distribution requirements. this may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations. our use of trss is limited under the code under the code, no more than 20% of the value of the gross assets of a reit may be represented by securities of one or more trss. this limitation may affect our ability to increase the size of our trss' operations and assets, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the applicable limitation, or that such compliance will not adversely affect our business. also, our trss may not, among other things, operate or manage certain health care facilities, which may cause us to forgo investments 34 we might otherwise make. finally, we may be subject to a 100% excise tax on the income derived from certain transactions with our trss that are not on an arm's-length basis. we believe our arrangements with our trss are on arm's-length terms and intend to continue to operate in a manner that allows us to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to avoid application of that tax. the lease of qualified health care properties to a taxable reit subsidiary is subject to special requirements we lease certain qualified health care properties to taxable reit subsidiaries (or limited liability companies of which the taxable reit subsidiaries are members), which lessees contract with managers (or related parties) to manage the health care operations at these properties. the rents from this taxable reit subsidiary lessee structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property if (1) they are paid pursuant to an arm's-length lease of a qualified health care property with a taxable reit subsidiary and (2) the manager qualifies as an eligible independent contractor (as defined in the code). if any of these conditions are not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents. if certain sale-leaseback transactions are not characterized by the internal revenue service ( irs ) as true leases, we may be subject to adverse tax consequences we have purchased certain properties and leased them back to the sellers of such properties, and we may enter into similar transactions in the future. we intend for any such sale-leaseback transaction to be structured in such a manner that the lease will be characterized as a true lease, thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for u.s. federal income tax purposes. however, depending on the terms of any specific transaction, the irs might take the position that the transaction is not a true lease but is more properly treated in some other manner. in the event any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and successfully re-characterized by the irs, we would not be entitled to claim the deductions for depreciation and cost recovery generally available to an owner of property. furthermore, if a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the reit asset tests or income tests and, consequently, could lose our reit status effective with the year of re-characterization. alternatively, the amount of our reit taxable income could be recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet the reit annual distribution requirements for a taxable year. we could be subject to changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities we are subject to taxes in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. our effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. we are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the irs and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. we regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. if we were subject to review or examination by the irs or applicable foreign jurisdiction as the result of any new tax law changes, the ultimate determination of which may change our taxes owed for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued or recorded, our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be adversely affected. the present federal income tax treatment of reits may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could affect the federal income tax treatment of an investment in us. the federal income tax rules dealing with u.s. federal income taxation and reits are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the irs and the u.s. treasury department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to regulations and interpretations. we cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our investors or us. revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a reit, as well as the tax considerations relevant to an investment in us, or could cause us to change our investments and commitments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we seek to mitigate the underlying foreign currency exposures with gains and losses on derivative contracts hedging these exposures. we seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. we may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. these decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. this section is presented to provide a discussion of the risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. for more information, see notes 12 and 17 to our consolidated financial statements. we historically borrow on our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program to acquire, construct or make loans relating to health care and seniors housing properties. then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program. we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. the majority of our borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited. a change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt. changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt or equity or repaid by the sale of assets. to illustrate the impact of changes in the interest rate markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our fixed rate debt instruments whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates to determine the instruments' change in fair value. the following table summarizes the analysis performed as of the dates indicated (in thousands): december 31, 2019 december 31, 2018 principal balance change in fair value principal balance change in fair value senior unsecured notes $ 9,724,691 $ (751,848 ) $ 9,009,159 $ (548,558 ) secured debt 1,814,229 (69,756 ) 1,639,983 (59,522 ) totals $ 11,538,920 $ (821,604 ) $ 10,649,142 $ (608,080 ) our variable rate debt, including our unsecured revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, is reflected at fair value. at december 31, 2019 , we had $ 3,470,584,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt. assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $ 34,706,000 . at december 31, 2018 , we had $ 2,683,553,000 outstanding under our variable rate debt. assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have resulted in increased annual interest expense of $ 26,836,000 . we are subject to currency fluctuations that may, from time to time, affect our financial condition and results of operations. increases or decreases in the value of the canadian dollar or british pounds sterling relative to the u.s. dollar impact the amount of net income we earn from our investments in canada and the united kingdom. based solely on our results for the year ended december 31, 2019 , including the impact of existing hedging arrangements, if these exchange rates were to increase or decrease by 10%, our net income from these investments would increase or decrease, as applicable, by less than $ 13,000,000 . we will continue to mitigate these underlying foreign currency exposures with non-u.s. denominated borrowings and gains and losses on derivative contracts. if we increase our international presence through investments in, or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing and health care properties outside the u.s., we may also decide to transact additional business or borrow funds in currencies other than u.s. dollars, canadian dollars or british pounds sterling. to illustrate the impact of changes in foreign currency markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our derivative portfolio whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in foreign currency exchange rates to determine the instruments' change in fair value. the following table summarizes the results of the analysis performed, excluding cross currency hedge activity (dollars in thousands): december 31, 2019 december 31, 2018 carrying value change in fair value carrying value change in fair value foreign currency exchange contracts $ 26,767 $ 12,136 $ 23,620 $ 16,163 debt designated as hedges 1,586,116 15,861 1,559,159 15,592 totals $ 1,612,883 $ 27,997 $ 1,582,779 $ 31,755 60risk factors 28 risk factors forward-looking statements and risk factors this section discusses the most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial condition. it does not describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our industry or ownership of our securities. if any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently think are not material, actually occur, we could be materially adversely affected. in that event, the value of our securities could decline. this annual report on form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements that constitute forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the federal securities laws. these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those regarding: the possible expansion of our portfolio; the sale of properties; the performance of our operators/tenants and properties; our ability to enter into agreements with new viable tenants for vacant space or for properties that we take back from financially troubled tenants, if any; our occupancy rates; our ability to acquire, develop and/or manage properties; our ability to make distributions to stockholders; our policies and plans regarding investments, financings and other matters; our tax status as a real estate investment trust; our critical accounting policies; our ability to appropriately balance the use of debt and equity; our ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds; and our ability to meet our earnings guidance. when we use words such as may, will, intend, should, believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate or similar expressions, we are making forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. our expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from our expectations. this may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital; issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government investigations and punitive settlements and operators /tenants difficulty in cost-effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; 28 table of contents competition within the health care and senior housing industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; our ability to transition or sell facilities with profitable results; the failure to make new investments as and when anticipated; acts of god affecting our properties; our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; our ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator/tenant bankruptcies or insolvencies; government regulations affecting medicare and medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements; liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future acquisitions; environmental laws affecting our properties; changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting; other legal and operational matters, including reit qualification and key management personnel recruitment and retention; and the risks described below: risk factors related to our operators revenues and expenses our investment property operators revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates. expenses for these facilities are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. liability insurance and staffing costs continue to increase for our operators. to the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. the ongoing credit and liquidity crisis, and the weakening economy, may have an adverse effect on our operators and tenants, including their ability to access credit or maintain occupancy rates. if the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our operators are materially adversely impacted by the current economic conditions, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected. increased competition may affect our operators ability to meet their obligations to us the operators of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators of properties and other health care providers that provide comparable services. we cannot be certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. our operators are expected to encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses. risk factors related to obligor bankruptcies we are exposed to the risk that our obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in an obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that an obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons. although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans 29 table of contents provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. an obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies. we may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new tenant. in some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. in some of those situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. if we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected. transfers of health care facilities may require regulatory approvals and these facilities may not have efficient alternative uses transfers of health care facilities to successor operators frequently are subject to regulatory approvals, including change of ownership approvals under certificate of need ( con ) laws, state licensure laws and medicare and medicaid provider arrangements, that are not required for transfers of other types of real estate. the replacement of an operator could be delayed by the approval process of any federal, state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. alternatively, given the specialized nature of our facilities, we may be required to spend substantial time and funds to adapt these properties to other uses. if we are unable to timely transfer properties to successor operators or find efficient alternative uses, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected. risk factors related to government regulations our obligors businesses are affected by government reimbursement and private payor rates. to the extent that an operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from governmental payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such property. in recent years, governmental payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures. health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives reimbursement from medicare, medicaid or private payors. significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an obligor liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor to meet its obligations to us. see item 1 business certain government regulations reimbursement above. our operators and tenants generally are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations. our operators or tenants failure to comply with any of these laws could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. such actions may have an effect on our operators or tenants ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. see item 1 business certain government regulations other related laws above. many of our properties may require a license and/or con to operate. failure to obtain a license or con, or loss of a required license or con would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. these events could materially adversely affect our operators or tenants ability to make rent payments to us. state and local laws also may regulate expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of 30 table of contents medical equipment, and the construction of health care facilities, by requiring a con or other similar approval. see item 1 business certain government regulations licensing and certification above. the american reinvestment and recovery act of 2009, which was signed into law on february 17, 2009, provides $87 billion in additional federal medicaid funding for states medicaid expenditures between october 1, 2008 and december 31, 2010. under this act, states meeting certain eligibility requirements will temporarily receive additional money in the form of an increase in the federal medical assistance percentage (fmap). thus, for a limited period of time, the share of medicaid costs that are paid for by the federal government will go up, and each state share will go down. we cannot predict whether states are, or will remain, eligible to receive the additional federal medicaid funding, or whether the states will have sufficient funds for their medicaid programs. we also cannot predict the impact that this broad-based, far-reaching legislation will have on the u.s. economy or our business. risk factors related to liability claims and insurance costs in recent years, skilled nursing and seniors housing operators have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims. as a result, general and professional liability costs have increased in some markets. however, a recent report and state survey found that the liability insurance market is beginning to stabilize in most markets. in 2008, national average liability loss costs were stable for the first time in nearly a decade. state-led tort reform efforts have greatly contributed to decreasing costs. in some markets general and professional liability insurance coverage continues to be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the property operators future operations, cash flows and financial condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the property operators ability to meet their obligations to us. risk factors related to acquisitions we are exposed to the risk that some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. we could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. if we agree to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project. moreover, if we issue equity securities or incur additional debt, or both, to finance future acquisitions, it may reduce our per share financial results. these costs may negatively affect our results of operations. risk factors related to joint ventures we have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other persons or entities. joint venture investments involve risks, including the possibility that our partner might become insolvent or otherwise refuse to make capital contributions when due; that our partner might at any time have investment goals which are inconsistent with ours; that we could become engaged in a dispute with our partner, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such disputes; and that our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests. in addition, our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted. in some instances, we and our partner may each have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. joint ventures require us to share decision-making authority with our partners, which limits our ability to control the properties in the joint ventures. even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions may require partner approval. risk factors related to life sciences facilities our tenants in the life sciences industry face high levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty that may adversely affect their ability to make payments to us. research, development and clinical testing of products and technologies can be very expensive and sources of funds may not be available to our life sciences tenants in the future. the products and technologies that are developed and manufactured by our life sciences tenants may require regulatory approval prior to being made, marketed, sold and used. the regulatory process can be costly, long and 31 table of contents unpredictable. even after a tenant gains regulatory approval and market acceptance, the product still presents regulatory and liability risks, such as safety concerns, competition from new products and eventually the expiration of patent protection. these factors may affect the ability of our life sciences tenants to make timely payments to us, which may adversely affect our revenue and operations. risk factors related to indebtedness permanent financing for our investments is typically provided through a combination of public and private offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt. the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or (4) negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the noted rating agencies. our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments. these defaults could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. risk factors related to our credit ratings as of february 12, 2010, our senior unsecured notes were rated baa2 (stable), bbb- (positive) and bbb (stable) by moody investors service, standard poor ratings services and fitch ratings, respectively. we plan to manage the company to maintain investment grade status with a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the noted rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. risk factors related to interest rate swaps we enter into interest rate swap agreements from time to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility. these swap agreements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates. when we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a risk that we will not complete the long-term borrowing against which the swap is intended to hedge. if such events occur, our results of operations may be adversely affected. risk factors related to environmental laws under various federal and state laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. we may become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person relationship to the property. our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property. moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. those assessments are designed to meet the all appropriate inquiry standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material environmental contamination. however, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors. 32 table of contents risk factors related to facilities that require entrance fees certain of our senior housing facilities require the payment of an upfront entrance fee by the resident, a portion of which may be refundable by the operator. some of these facilities are subject to substantial oversight by state regulators relating to these funds. as a result of this oversight, residents of these facilities may have a variety of rights, including, for example, the right to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time and certain lien rights. the oversight and rights of residents within these facilities may have an effect on the revenue or operations of the operators of such facilities and therefore may negatively impact us. risk factors related to facilities under construction or development at any given time, we may be in the process of constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will require a con and license before they can be utilized by the operator for their intended use. the operator also may need to obtain medicare and medicaid certification and enter into medicare and medicaid provider agreements and/or third party payor contracts. in the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary con, licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary provider agreements or contracts or we can find and contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use and the necessary provider agreements or contracts. in connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. these factors could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. in addition, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may not be able to complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs. additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such distributions. newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. in deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. in particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy and rental rates. if our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate, and the property is unable to achieve the expected occupancy and rental rates, it may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. additionally, we may acquire new properties that are not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with that property. we do not know if our tenants will renew their existing leases, and if they do not, we may be unable to lease the properties on as favorable terms, or at all we cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times through 2079. if these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties or sell them. there can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground leases we have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. as the lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us. 33 table of contents illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties real estate investments are relatively illiquid. our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. no assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and health care industries. a downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. risk factors related to reinvestment of sale proceeds from time to time, we will have cash available from (1) the proceeds of sales of our securities, (2) principal payments on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. in order to maintain current revenues and continue generating attractive returns, we expect to re-invest these proceeds in a timely manner. we compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. this competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. failure to properly manage our rapid growth could distract our management or increase our expenses we have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to continue this rapid growth in the future. this growth has resulted in increased levels of responsibility for our management. future property acquisitions could place significant additional demands on, and require us to expand, our management, resources and personnel. our failure to manage any such rapid growth effectively could harm our business and, in particular, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to stockholders. our growth could also increase our capital requirements, which may require us to issue potentially dilutive equity securities and incur additional debt. we might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit we intend to operate as a reit under the internal revenue code and believe we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. if we lose our status as a reit, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders for each of the years involved because: we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a reit for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. since reit qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of federal taxes owed. a reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. if we do not qualify as a reit, we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-reit is not required, in order to maintain reit status or avoid an excise tax, to pay dividends to stockholders. see item 1 business federal income tax considerations for a discussion of the provisions of the internal revenue code that apply to us and the effects of non-qualification. in addition, if we fail to qualify as a reit, all distributions to stockholders would continue to be treated as dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction, and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to long-term capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 15%) with respect to distributions. as a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. 34 table of contents qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex internal revenue code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a reit. although we believe that we qualify as a reit, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a reit for tax purposes. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations included in this annual report on form 10-k. the 90% annual distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions to comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to reits and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit annual distribution requirements included in this annual report on form 10-k. although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the reit distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement, or we may decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. this may be due to timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. in addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. in the event that timing differences occur, or we deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in a transaction intended to enable us to meet the reit distribution requirements. this may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations. the amount of additional indebtedness we may incur is limited by the terms of our line of credit arrangement and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes. in addition, adverse economic conditions may impact the availability of additional funds or could cause the terms on which we are able to borrow additional funds to become unfavorable. in those circumstances, we may be required to raise additional equity in the capital markets. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions and the market perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of the shares of our capital stock. we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. other risk factors we are also subject to other risks. first, our second restated certificate of incorporation and second amended and restated by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (staggered board provisions, restrictions on share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. additionally, we are dependent on key personnel. although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an adverse impact on our operations. we believe that losing more than one could have a material adverse impact on our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. we seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. we may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. these decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. this section is presented to provide a discussion of the risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates. we historically borrow on our unsecured line of credit arrangement to acquire, construct or make loans relating to health care and senior housing properties. then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under the unsecured line of credit arrangement. a change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt. changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt or equity or repaid by the sale of assets. to illustrate the impact of changes in the interest rate markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our fixed rate debt instruments whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates to determine the instruments change in fair value. the following table summarizes the analysis performed as of the dates indicated (in thousands): december 31, 2009 december 31, 2008 principal change in principal change in balance fair value balance fair value senior unsecured notes $ 1,661,853 $ (129,350 ) $ 1,845,000 $ (112,438 ) fixed rate secured debt 491,094 (22,522 ) 448,378 (17,966 ) totals $ 2,152,947 $ (151,872 ) $ 2,293,378 $ (130,404 ) on august 7, 2009, we entered into an interest rate swap (the august 2009 swap ) for a total notional amount of $52,198,000 to hedge seven years of interest payments associated with long-term libor based borrowings. the august 2009 swap has an effective date of august 12, 2009 and a maturity date of september 1, 2016. the august 2009 swap has the economic effect of fixing $52,198,000 at 3.93% plus a credit spread for seven years. the august 2009 swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge and we expect it to be highly effective at offsetting changes in cash flows of interest payments on $52,198,000 of long-term debt due to changes in the libor swap rate. on september 28, 2009, we entered into an interest rate swap (the september 2009 swap ) for a total notional amount of $48,155,000 to hedge seven years of interest payments associated with long-term libor based borrowings. the september 2009 swap has an effective date of september 30, 2009 and a maturity date of october 1, 2016. the september 2009 swap has the economic effect of fixing $48,155,000 at 3.2675% plus a credit spread for seven years. the september 2009 swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge and we expect it to be highly effective at offsetting changes in cash flows of interest payments on $48,155,000 of long-term debt due to changes in the libor swap rate. our variable rate debt, including our unsecured line of credit arrangement, is reflected at fair value. at december 31, 2009, we had $140,000,000 outstanding related to our variable rate line of credit and $131,952,000 outstanding related to our variable rate secured debt. assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $2,720,000. at december 31, 2008, we had 70 table of contents $570,000,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt and assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have resulted in increased annual interest expense of $5,700,000. we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. the majority of our borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited. for additional information regarding fair values of financial instruments, see item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and note 15 to our audited consolidated financial statements. 71 table of contentsrisk factors 29 risk factors forward-looking statements and risk factors this section discusses the most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial condition. it does not describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our industry or ownership of our securities. if any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently think are not material, actually occur, we could be materially adversely affected. in that event, the value of our securities could decline. this annual report on form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements that constitute forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the federal securities laws. these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those regarding: the possible expansion of our portfolio; the sale of properties; the performance of our operators/tenants and properties; our ability to enter into agreements with new viable tenants for vacant space or for properties that we take back from financially troubled tenants, if any; our occupancy rates; our ability to acquire, develop and/or manage properties; our ability to make distributions to stockholders; our policies and plans regarding investments, financings and other matters; our tax status as a real estate investment trust; our critical accounting policies; our ability to appropriately balance the use of debt and equity; our ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds; and our ability to meet our earnings guidance. when we use words such as may, will, intend, should, believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate or similar expressions, we are making forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. our expected results may not be achieved, and 29 table of contents actual results may differ materially from our expectations. this may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital; issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government investigations and punitive settlements and operators /tenants difficulty in cost-effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the health care, senior housing and life science industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; our ability to transition or sell facilities with profitable results; the failure to make new investments as and when anticipated; acts of god affecting our properties; our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; our ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies; the cooperation of joint venture partners; government regulations affecting medicare and medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements; regulatory approval and market acceptance of the products and technologies of life science tenants; liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future acquisitions; environmental laws affecting our properties; changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting; other legal and operational matters, including reit qualification and key management personnel recruitment and retention; and the risks described below: risk factors related to our operators revenues and expenses our investment property operators revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates. expenses for these facilities are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. liability insurance and staffing costs continue to increase for our operators. to the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. the recent credit and liquidity crisis, and the weakened economy, may have a lingering adverse effect on our operators and tenants, including their ability to access credit or maintain occupancy rates. if the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our operators are materially adversely impacted by economic conditions, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected. 30 table of contents increased competition may affect our operators ability to meet their obligations to us the operators of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators of properties and other health care providers that provide comparable services. we cannot be certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. our operators are expected to encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses. risk factors related to obligor bankruptcies we are exposed to the risk that our obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in an obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that an obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons. although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. an obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies. we may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new tenant. in some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. in some of those situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. if we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected. transfers of health care facilities may require regulatory approvals and these facilities may not have efficient alternative uses transfers of health care facilities to successor operators frequently are subject to regulatory approvals or notifications, including, but not limited to, change of ownership approvals under certificate of need ( con ) laws, state licensure laws and medicare and medicaid provider arrangements, that are not required for transfers of other types of real estate. the replacement of a health care facility operator could be delayed by the approval process of any federal, state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. alternatively, given the specialized nature of our facilities, we may be required to spend substantial time and funds to adapt these properties to other uses. if we are unable to timely transfer properties to successor operators or find efficient alternative uses, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected. risk factors related to government regulations our obligors businesses are affected by government reimbursement and private payor rates. to the extent that an operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from government payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing government investigations and audits at such property. in recent years, government payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures. health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives reimbursement from medicare, medicaid or private payors. significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an obligor liquidity, financial 31 table of contents condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor to meet its obligations to us. see item 1 business certain government regulations reimbursement above. our operators and tenants generally are subject to extensive federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards. our operators or tenants failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. such actions may have an effect on our operators or tenants ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. see item 1 business certain government regulations other related laws above. many of our properties may require a license, registration, and/or con to operate. failure to obtain a license, registration, or con, or loss of a required license, registration, or con would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. these events could materially adversely affect our operators or tenants ability to make rent payments to us. state and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a con or other similar approval from a state agency. see item 1 business certain government regulations licensing and certification above. the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 ( arra ), which was signed into law on february 17, 2009, provides $87 billion in additional federal medicaid funding for states medicaid expenditures between october 1, 2008 and december 31, 2010. on august 10, 2010, the president signed into law h.r. 1586, which mandates a six-month extension of the increase in federal medicaid funding for states through june 30, 2011, although the enhanced federal medicaid funding is scaled back for the first two quarters of 2011. under both the arra and h.r. 1586, states meeting certain eligibility requirements will temporarily receive additional money in the form of an increase in the federal medical assistance percentage ( fmap ). thus, for a limited period of time, the share of medicaid costs that are paid for by the federal government will go up, and each state share will go down. we cannot predict whether states are, or will remain, eligible to receive the additional federal medicaid funding, or whether the states will have sufficient funds for their medicaid programs. we also cannot predict the impact that such broad-based, far-reaching legislation will have on the u.s. economy or our business. risk factors related to liability claims and insurance costs in recent years, skilled nursing and seniors housing operators have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims. as a result, general and professional liability costs have increased in some markets. however, a recent report and state survey found that the liability insurance market is beginning to stabilize in most markets. in 2008, national average liability loss costs were stable for the first time in nearly a decade. state-led tort reform efforts have greatly contributed to decreasing costs. in some markets general and professional liability insurance coverage continues to be restricted or very costly, which in some cases has caused operators to self-insure. these developments may adversely affect the property operators future operations, cash flows and financial condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the property operators ability to meet their obligations to us. risk factors related to acquisitions we are exposed to the risk that some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. we could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. if we agree to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project. moreover, if we issue equity securities or incur additional debt, or both, to finance future acquisitions, it may reduce our per share financial results. these costs may negatively affect our results of operations. 32 table of contents risk factors related to joint ventures we have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other persons or entities. joint venture investments involve risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including the possibility that our partner might become insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when due or otherwise fail to meet its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; that our partner might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged in a dispute with our partner, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such disputes and could have an adverse impact on the operations and profitability of the joint venture; and that our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests. in addition, our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted. in some instances, we and/or our partner may have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. our ability to acquire our partner interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. in such event, we may be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. joint ventures may require us to share decision-making authority with our partners, which could limit our ability to control the properties in the joint ventures. even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions may require partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition or financing of a property. risk factors related to life sciences facilities our tenants in the life sciences industry face high levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty that may adversely affect their ability to make payments to us. research, development and clinical testing of products and technologies can be very expensive and sources of funds may not be available to our life sciences tenants in the future. the products and technologies that are developed and manufactured by our life sciences tenants may require regulatory approval prior to being made, marketed, sold and used. the regulatory process can be costly, long and unpredictable. even after a tenant gains regulatory approval and market acceptance, the product still presents regulatory and liability risks, such as safety concerns, competition from new products and eventually the expiration of patent protection. these factors may affect the ability of our life sciences tenants to make timely payments to us, which may adversely affect our revenue and operations. risk factors related to indebtedness permanent financing for our investments is typically provided through a combination of public and private offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt. the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or (4) negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the noted rating agencies. our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments. these defaults could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. risk factors related to our credit ratings we plan to manage the company to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the noted rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. 33 table of contents risk factors related to interest rate swaps we enter into interest rate swap agreements from time to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility. these swap agreements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates. when we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a risk that we will not complete the long-term borrowing against which the swap is intended to hedge. if such events occur, our results of operations may be adversely affected. risk factors related to environmental laws under various federal and state laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. we may become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person relationship to the property. our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property. moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. those assessments are designed to meet the all appropriate inquiry standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material environmental contamination. however, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors. risk factors related to facilities that require entrance fees certain of our senior housing facilities require the payment of an upfront entrance fee by the resident, a portion of which may be refundable by the operator. some of these facilities are subject to substantial oversight by state regulators relating to these funds. as a result of this oversight, residents of these facilities may have a variety of rights, including, for example, the right to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time and certain lien rights. the oversight and rights of residents within these facilities may have an effect on the revenue or operations of the operators of such facilities and therefore may negatively impact us. risk factors related to facilities under construction or development at any given time, we may be in the process of constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will require a con and license before they can be utilized by the operator for their intended use. the operator also may need to obtain medicare and medicaid certification and enter into medicare and medicaid provider agreements and/or third party payor contracts. in the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary con, licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary provider agreements or contracts or we can find and contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use and the necessary provider agreements or contracts. in connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. these factors could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. in addition, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may not be able to complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs. additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow 34 table of contents additional money to fund such distributions. newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. in deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. in particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy and rental rates. if our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate, and the property is unable to achieve the expected occupancy and rental rates, it may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. additionally, we may acquire new properties that are not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with that property. we do not know if our tenants will renew their existing leases, and if they do not, we may be unable to lease the properties on as favorable terms, or at all we cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times. if these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties or sell them. there can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground leases we have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. as the lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us. illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties real estate investments are relatively illiquid. our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. no assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and health care industries. a downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. risk factors related to reinvestment of sale proceeds from time to time, we will have cash available from (1) the proceeds of sales of our securities, (2) principal payments on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. in order to maintain current revenues and continue generating attractive returns, we expect to re-invest these proceeds in a timely manner. we compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. this competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. failure to properly manage our rapid growth could distract our management or increase our expenses we have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to continue this rapid growth in the future. this growth has resulted in increased levels of responsibility for our management. future property acquisitions could place significant additional demands on, and require us to expand, our management, resources and personnel. our failure to manage any such rapid growth effectively could harm our business and, in particular, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could negatively 35 table of contents affect our ability to make distributions to stockholders. our growth could also increase our capital requirements, which may require us to issue potentially dilutive equity securities and incur additional debt. we might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit we intend to operate as a reit under the internal revenue code and believe we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. if we lose our status as a reit, we will face serious income tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders because: we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to u.s. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a reit for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. since reit qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of u.s. federal and other income taxes owed. a reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. if we do not qualify as a reit, we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-reit is not required, in order to maintain reit status or avoid an excise tax, to pay dividends to stockholders. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations for a discussion of the provisions of the internal revenue code that apply to us and the effects of failure to qualify as a reit. in addition, if we fail to qualify as a reit, all distributions to stockholders would continue to be treated as dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction, and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to long-term capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 15%) with respect to distributions. as a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex internal revenue code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a reit. although we believe that we qualify as a reit, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations included in this annual report on form 10-k. the 90% annual distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions to comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to reits and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit annual distribution requirements included in this annual report on form 10-k. although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the reit distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement, or we may decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. this may be due to timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. in addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. in the event that timing differences occur, or we deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable 36 table of contents stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in another transaction intended to enable us to meet the reit distribution requirements. this may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations. the amount of additional indebtedness we may incur is limited by the terms of our line of credit arrangement and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes. in addition, adverse economic conditions may impact the availability of additional funds or could cause the terms on which we are able to borrow additional funds to become unfavorable. in those circumstances, we may be required to raise additional equity in the capital markets. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions and the market perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of the shares of our capital stock. we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. the lease of qualified health care properties to a taxable reit subsidiary is subject to special requirements we intend to lease certain qualified health care properties we acquire from operators to a taxable reit subsidiary (or a limited liability company of which the taxable reit subsidiary is a member), which lessee will contract with such operators (or a related party) to operate the health care operations at these properties. the rents from this taxable reit subsidiary lessee structure will be treated as qualifying rents from real property if (1) they are paid pursuant to an arms-length lease of a qualified health care property with a taxable reit subsidiary and (2) the operator qualifies as an eligible independent contractor. if any of these conditions are not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit income tests. if certain sale-leaseback transactions are not characterized by the irs as true leases, we may be subject to adverse tax consequences we may purchase properties and lease them back to the sellers of such properties. we intend for any such sale-leaseback transaction to be structured in such a manner that the lease will be characterized as a true lease, thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for u.s. federal income tax purposes. however, depending on the terms of any specific transaction, the irs might take the position that the transaction is not a true lease but is more properly treated in some other manner. in the event any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and successfully re-characterized by the irs, we would not be entitled to claim the deductions for depreciation and cost recovery generally available to an owner of property. furthermore, if a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the reit asset tests or income tests and, consequently, could lose our reit status effective with the year of re-characterization. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit asset tests and income tests. alternatively, the amount of our reit taxable income could be recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet the reit annual distribution requirements for a taxable year. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit annual distribution requirements. other risk factors we are also subject to other risks. first, our second restated certificate of incorporation and second amended and restated by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (staggered board provisions, restrictions on share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. additionally, we are dependent on key personnel. although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an adverse impact on our operations. we believe that losing more than one could have a material adverse impact on our business. 37 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 74 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. we seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. we may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. these decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. this section is presented to provide a discussion of the risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates. we historically borrow on our unsecured line of credit arrangement to acquire, construct or make loans relating to health care and senior housing properties. then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under the unsecured line of credit arrangement. a change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt. changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt or equity or repaid by the sale of assets. to illustrate the impact of changes in the interest rate markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our fixed rate debt instruments whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates to determine the instruments change in fair value. the following table summarizes the analysis performed as of the dates indicated (in thousands): december 31, 2010 december 31, 2009 principal change in principal change in balance fair value balance fair value senior unsecured notes $ 3,064,930 $ (248,884 ) $ 1,661,853 $ (129,350 ) secured debt 1,030,070 (51,973 ) 491,094 (22,522 ) totals $ 4,095,000 $ (300,857 ) $ 2,152,947 $ (151,872 ) on december 31, 2010, we assumed an interest rate swap (the december 2010 swap ) for a total notional amount of $12,650,000 to hedge interest payments associated with long-term libor based borrowings. the december 2010 swap has an effective date of december 31, 2010 and a maturity date of december 31, 2013. the december 2010 swap has the economic effect of fixing $12,650,000 at 5.50% plus a credit spread through the swap maturity. in january 2011, the december 2010 swap was designated as a cash flow hedge and we expect it to be highly effective at offsetting changes in cash flows of interest payments on $12,650,000 of long-term debt due to changes in the libor swap rate. our variable rate debt, including our unsecured line of credit arrangement, is reflected at fair value. at december 31, 2010, we had $300,000,000 outstanding related to our variable rate line of credit and $103,645,000 outstanding related to our variable rate secured debt. assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $4,036,000. at december 31, 2009, we had $140,000,000 outstanding related to our variable rate line of credit and $131,952,000 outstanding related to our 74 table of contents variable rate secured debt. assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have resulted in increased annual interest expense of $2,720,000. we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. the majority of our borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited. for additional information regarding fair values of financial instruments, see item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and note 16 to our audited consolidated financial statements. 75 table of contentsrisk factors 25 risk factors forward-looking statements and risk factors 25 this section discusses the most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial condition. it does not describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our industry or ownership of our securities. if any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently think are not material, actually occur, we could be materially adversely affected. in that event, the value of our securities could decline. this annual report on form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements that constitute forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the federal securities laws. these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those regarding: the possible expansion of our portfolio; the sale of properties; the performance of our operators/tenants and properties; our ability to enter into agreements with new viable tenants for vacant space or for properties that we take back from financially troubled tenants, if any; our occupancy rates; our ability to acquire, develop and/or manage properties; our ability to make distributions to stockholders; our policies and plans regarding investments, financings and other matters; our ability to successfully manage the risks associated with international expansion and operations; our tax status as a real estate investment trust; our critical accounting policies; our ability to appropriately balance the use of debt and equity; our ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds; and our ability to meet our earnings guidance. when we use words such as may, will, intend, should, believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate or similar expressions, we are making forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. our expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from our expectations. this may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital; issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government investigations and punitive settlements and operators'/tenants' difficulty in cost-effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the health care, seniors housing and life science industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; our ability to transition or sell facilities with profitable results; 26 the failure to make new investments as and when anticipated; acts of god affecting our properties; our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; our ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies; the cooperation of joint venture partners; government regulations affecting medicare and medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements; regulatory approval and market acceptance of the products and technologies of life science tenants; liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future acquisitions; environmental laws affecting our properties; changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting; the movement of u.s. and canadian exchange rates; other legal and operational matters, including reit qualification and key management personnel recruitment and retention; and the risks described below: risk factors related to our operators' revenues and expenses our operators' revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates. expenses for these facilities are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. operating costs continue to increase for our operators. to the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. the continued weakened economy may have an adverse effect on our operators and tenants, including their ability to access credit or maintain occupancy rates. if the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our operators are materially adversely impacted by economic conditions, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected. increased competition may affect our operators' ability to meet their obligations to us the operators of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators of properties and other health care providers that provide comparable services. we cannot be certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. our operators are expected to encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses. risk factors related to obligor bankruptcies we are exposed to the risk that our obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in an obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that an obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons. although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. an obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency 27 proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies. we may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new tenant. in some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. in some of those situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. if we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected. transfers of health care facilities may require regulatory approvals and these facilities may not have efficient alternative uses transfers of health care facilities to successor operators frequently are subject to regulatory approvals or notifications, including, but not limited to, change of ownership approvals under certificate of need ( con ) or determination of need laws, state licensure laws and medicare and medicaid provider arrangements, that are not required for transfers of other types of real estate. the replacement of a health care facility operator could be delayed by the approval process of any federal, state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. alternatively, given the specialized nature of our facilities, we may be required to spend substantial time and funds to adapt these properties to other uses. if we are unable to timely transfer properties to successor operators or find efficient alternative uses, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected. risk factors related to government regulations our obligors' businesses are affected by government reimbursement and private payor rates. to the extent that an operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from government payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing government investigations and audits at such property. in recent years, government payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures. health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives reimbursement from medicare, medicaid or private payors. significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an obligor's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor to meet its obligations to us. see item 1 business certain government regulations reimbursement above. our operators and tenants generally are subject to extensive federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards. our operators' or tenants' failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. such actions may have an effect on our operators' or tenants' ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. see item 1 business certain government regulations other related laws above. many of our properties may require a license, registration, and/or con to operate. failure to obtain a license, registration, or con, or loss of a required license, registration, or con would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. these events could materially adversely affect our operators' or tenants' ability to make rent payments to us. state and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a con or other similar approval from a state agency. see item 1 business certain government regulations licensing and certification above. the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 ( arra ), which was signed into law on february 17, 2009, provided $87 billion in additional federal medicaid funding for states' medicaid expenditures between october 1, 2008 and december 31, 2010. on august 10, 2010, the president signed into law h.r. 1586, which mandated a six-month extension of the increase in federal medicaid funding for states through june 30, 2011, although the enhanced federal medicaid funding was scaled back for the first two quarters of 2011. under both the arra and h.r. 1586, states meeting certain eligibility requirements temporarily received additional money in the form of an increase in the federal medical assistance percentage ( fmap ). thus, for a limited period of time, the share of medicaid costs that were paid for by the federal government went up, and each state's share went down. no similar extension of increased matching has been offered since june 30, 2011, and states' fmap rates have returned to levels comparable to pre-arra rates. we cannot predict whether states are, or will remain, eligible to receive the additional federal medicaid funding, or whether the 28 states will have sufficient funds for their medicaid programs. we also cannot predict the impact that such broad-based, far-reaching legislation will have on the u.s. economy or our business. risk factors related to liability claims and insurance costs in recent years, skilled nursing and seniors housing operators have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims. as a result, general and professional liability costs have increased in some markets. general and professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the property operators' future operations, cash flows and financial condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the property operators' ability to meet their obligations to us. risk factors related to acquisitions we are exposed to the risk that some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. we could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. if we agree to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project. moreover, if we issue equity securities or incur additional debt, or both, to finance future acquisitions, it may reduce our per share financial results. these costs may negatively affect our results of operations. unfavorable resolution of pending and future litigation matters and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. from time to time, we may be directly involved in a number of legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. we may also be named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our actions or the actions of our operators/tenants or managers in which such operators/tenants or managers have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses. an unfavorable resolution of pending or future litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management. there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, pending or future litigation. in addition, pending litigation or future litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations. risk factors related to joint ventures we have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other persons or entities. joint venture investments involve risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including the possibility that our partner might become insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when due or otherwise fail to meet its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; that our partner might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged in a dispute with our partner, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such disputes and could have an adverse impact on the operations and profitability of the joint venture; and that our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests. in addition, our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted. in some instances, we and/or our partner may have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner's interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. our ability to acquire our partner's interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. in such event, we may be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. joint ventures may require us to share decision-making authority with our partners, which could limit our ability to control the properties in the joint ventures. even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions may require partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition or financing of a property. risk factors related to our seniors housing operating properties we are exposed to various operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. these risks include fluctuations in occupancy, medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates; economic conditions; competition; federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; the availability and increases in cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage; state regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; the availability and increases in cost of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise). any one or a combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue and operations. 29 risk factors related to life science facilities our tenants in the life science industry face high levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty that may adversely affect their ability to make payments to us. research, development and clinical testing of products and technologies can be very expensive and sources of funds may not be available to our life sciences tenants in the future. the products and technologies that are developed and manufactured by our life science tenants may require regulatory approval prior to being made, marketed, sold and used. the regulatory process can be costly, long and unpredictable. even after a tenant gains regulatory approval and market acceptance, the product still presents regulatory and liability risks, such as safety concerns, competition from new products and eventually the expiration of patent protection. these factors may affect the ability of our life sciences tenants to make timely payments to us, which may adversely affect our revenue and operations. risk factors related to indebtedness permanent financing for our investments is typically provided through a combination of public and private offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt. the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or (4) negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the rating agencies. our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments. these defaults could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. risk factors related to our credit ratings we plan to manage the company to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. risk factors related to interest rate swaps we enter into interest rate swap agreements from time to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility. these swap agreements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates. when we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a risk that we will not complete the long-term borrowing against which the swap is intended to hedge. if such events occur, our results of operations may be adversely affected. risk factors related to environmental laws under various federal and state laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. we may become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person's relationship to the property. our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property. moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. those assessments are designed to meet the all appropriate inquiry standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material environmental contamination. however, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors. risk factors related to facilities that require entrance fees certain of our seniors housing facilities require the payment of an upfront entrance fee by the resident, a portion of which may be refundable by the operator. some of these facilities are subject to substantial oversight by state regulators relating to these funds. as a result of this oversight, residents of these facilities may have a variety of rights, including, for example, the right to cancel their 30 contracts within a specified period of time and certain lien rights. the oversight and rights of residents within these facilities may have an effect on the revenue or operations of the operators of such facilities and therefore may negatively impact us. risk factors related to facilities under construction or development at any given time, we may be in the process of constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will require a con and license before they can be utilized by the operator for their intended use. the operator also may need to obtain medicare and medicaid certification and enter into medicare and medicaid provider agreements and/or third party payor contracts. in the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary con, licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary provider agreements or contracts or we find and contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use and the necessary provider agreements or contracts. in connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. these factors could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. in addition, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may not be able to complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs. additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such distributions. newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. in deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. in particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy and rental rates. if our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate, and the property is unable to achieve the expected occupancy and rental rates, it may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. additionally, we may acquire new properties that are not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with that property. we do not know if our tenants will renew their existing leases, and if they do not, we may be unable to lease the properties on as favorable terms, or at all we cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times. if these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties or sell them. there can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground leases we have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. as the lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us. illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties real estate investments are relatively illiquid. our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. no assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and health care industries. a downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. risk factors related to reinvestment of sale proceeds 31 from time to time, we will have cash available from (1) the proceeds of sales of our securities, (2) principal payments on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. in order to maintain current revenues and continue generating attractive returns, we expect to re-invest these proceeds in a timely manner. we compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. this competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. failure to properly manage our rapid growth could distract our management or increase our expenses we have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to continue this rapid growth in the future. this growth has resulted in increased levels of responsibility for our management. future property acquisitions could place significant additional demands on, and require us to expand, our management, resources and personnel. our failure to manage any such rapid growth effectively could harm our business and, in particular, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to stockholders. our growth could also increase our capital requirements, which may require us to issue potentially dilutive equity securities and incur additional debt. ownership of property outside the united states may subject us to different or greater risks than those associated with our domestic operations international development, ownership, and operating activities involve risks that are different from those we face with respect to our domestic properties and operations. these risks include, but are not limited to, any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a reit; challenges with respect to the repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; changes in foreign political, regulatory, and economic conditions, including regionally, nationally, and locally; challenges in managing international operations; challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to real estate, corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment and legal proceedings; foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in countries; differences in lending practices and the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide financing; regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability; and changes in applicable laws and regulations in the united states that affect foreign operations. if we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with international expansion and operations, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. risk factors related to changes in currency exchange rates as we expand our operations internationally, currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial position. we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as the canadian dollar. although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions and/or obtain local currency mortgage debt in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, we cannot assure you that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on us. we might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit we intend to operate as a reit under the internal revenue code and believe we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. if we lose our status as a reit, we will face serious income tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders because: we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to u.s. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a reit for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. since reit qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of u.s. federal and other income taxes owed. a reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. if we do not qualify as a reit, we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-reit is not required to pay dividends to stockholders in order to maintain reit status or avoid an excise tax. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations for a discussion of the provisions of the internal revenue code that apply to us and the effects of failure to qualify as a reit. 32 in addition, if we fail to qualify as a reit, all distributions to stockholders would continue to be treated as dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction, and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to long-term capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 15%) with respect to distributions. as a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex internal revenue code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a reit. although we believe that we qualify as a reit, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations included in this annual report on form 10-k. the 90% annual distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions to comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to reits and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit annual distribution requirements included in this annual report on form 10-k. although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the reit distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement, or we may decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. this may be due to timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. in addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. in the event that timing differences occur, or we deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in another transaction intended to enable us to meet the reit distribution requirements. this may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations. the amount of additional indebtedness we may incur is limited by the terms of our line of credit arrangement and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes. in addition, adverse economic conditions may impact the availability of additional funds or could cause the terms on which we are able to borrow additional funds to become unfavorable. in those circumstances, we may be required to raise additional equity in the capital markets. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions and the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of the shares of our capital stock. we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. the lease of qualified health care properties to a taxable reit subsidiary is subject to special requirements we lease certain qualified health care properties we acquire to taxable reit subsidiaries (or limited liability companies of which the taxable reit subsidiaries are members), which lessees contract with managers (or related parties) to manage the health care operations at these properties. the rents from this taxable reit subsidiary lessee structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property if (1) they are paid pursuant to an arms-length lease of a qualified health care property with a taxable reit subsidiary and (2) the manager qualifies as an eligible independent contractor. if any of these conditions are not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit income tests. if certain sale-leaseback transactions are not characterized by the internal revenue service as true leases, we may be subject to adverse tax consequences we have purchased certain properties and leased them back to the sellers of such properties, and we may enter similar transactions in the future. we intend for any such sale-leaseback transaction to be structured in such a manner that the lease will be characterized as a true lease, thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for u.s. federal income tax purposes. however, depending on the terms of any specific transaction, the internal revenue service might take the position that the transaction is not a true lease but is more properly treated in some other manner. in the event any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and successfully re-characterized by the internal revenue service, we would not be entitled to claim the deductions for depreciation and cost recovery generally available to an owner of property. furthermore, if a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized, we 33 might fail to satisfy the reit asset tests or income tests and, consequently, could lose our reit status effective with the year of re-characterization. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit asset tests and income tests. alternatively, the amount of our reit taxable income could be recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet the reit annual distribution requirements for a taxable year. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit annual distribution requirements. other risk factors we are also subject to other risks. first, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (restrictions on share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. additionally, we are dependent on key personnel. although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an adverse impact on our operations. we believe that losing more than one could have a material adverse impact on our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. we seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. we may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. these decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. this section is presented to provide a discussion of the risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates. we historically borrow on our unsecured line of credit arrangement to acquire, construct or make loans relating to health care and seniors housing properties. then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under the unsecured line of credit arrangement. a change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt. changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt, equity or repaid by the sale of assets. to illustrate the impact of changes in the interest rate markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our fixed rate debt instruments whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates to determine the instruments' change in fair value. the following table summarizes the analysis performed as of the dates indicated (in thousands): december 31, 2011 december 31, 2010 principal change in principal change in balance fair value balance fair value senior unsecured notes $ 4,464,927 $ (342,460) $ 3,064,930 $ (248,884) secured debt 1,693,283 (82,583) 1,030,070 (51,973) totals $ 6,158,210 $ (425,043) $ 4,095,000 $ (300,857) as of december 31, 2011, we had eight interest rate swaps for a total aggregate notional amount of $135,445,000. the swaps hedge interest payments associated with long-term libor based borrowings and mature between december 31, 2012 and december 31, 2013. our variable rate debt, including our unsecured line of credit arrangements, is reflected at fair value. at december 31, 2011, we had $610,000,000 outstanding related to our variable rate lines of credit and $415,101,000 outstanding related to our variable rate secured debt. assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $10,251,000. at december 31, 2010, we had $300,000,000 outstanding related to our variable rate line of credit and $103,645,000 outstanding related to our variable rate secured debt. assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have resulted in increased annual interest expense of $4,036,000. we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. the majority of our borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited. for additional information regarding fair values of financial instruments, see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and note 16 to our audited consolidated financial statements. 70 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operationsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. we seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. the following section is presented to provide a discussion of the risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates. we historically borrow on our revolving lines of credit to make acquisitions of, loans to or to construct health care facilities. then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under the revolving lines of credit. a change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt. a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in fair value of our senior unsecured notes by approximately $15 million at december 31, 2002 ($16 million at december 31, 2001). changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, with variable rate debt, with equity or by the sale of assets. our variable rate debt, including our unsecured and secured revolving credit arrangements, is reflected at fair value. at december 31, 2002, a 1% increase in interest rates related to this variable rate debt (assuming no changes in outstanding balances) would result in increased annual interest expense of $1,135,000 ($500,000 at december 31, 2001). we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. the majority of our borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited. we may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge variable interest rate exposure. these decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. -29-quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk........................................................ 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. we seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. the following section is presented to provide a discussion of the risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates. we historically borrow on our lines of credit arrangements to make acquisitions of, loans to or to construct health care facilities. then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under the lines of credit arrangements. a change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of such debt. a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in fair value of our senior unsecured notes by approximately $31,473,000 at december 31, 2003 ($15,145,000 at december 31, 2002). changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, with variable rate debt, with equity or by the sale of assets. our variable rate debt, including our unsecured and secured lines of credit arrangements, is reflected at fair value. at december 31, 2003, we did not have any borrowings outstanding on our unsecured or secured lines of credit arrangements. as such, a 1% increase in interest rates would have no effect on our annual interest expense. however, as an example, if borrowings totaled $50,000,000, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $500,000. at december 31, 2002, we had $113,500,000 outstanding related to this variable rate debt and assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $1,135,000. we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of such refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. the majority of our borrowings were completed pursuant to indentures or contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited. we may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge variable interest rate exposure. such decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. 42quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. we seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. we may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. these decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. the following section is presented to provide a discussion of the risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates. we historically borrow on our unsecured lines of credit arrangements to make acquisitions of, loans to, or to construct health care facilities. then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under the unsecured lines of credit arrangements. a change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt. a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in fair value of our senior unsecured notes by approximately $28,025,000 at december 31, 2004 ($31,473,000 at december 31, 2003). changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt, or equity or repaid by the sale of assets. on may 6, 2004, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements (the swaps ) for a total notional amount of $100,000,000 to hedge changes in fair value attributable to changes in the libor swap rate of $100,000,000 of fixed rate debt with a maturity date of november 15, 2013. the swaps are treated as fair-value hedges for accounting purposes and we utilize the short-cut method in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, as amended. the swaps are with highly rated counterparties in which we receive a fixed rate of 6.0% and pay a variable rate based on six-month libor plus a spread. at december 31, 2004, the swaps were reported at their fair value as a $4,206,000 other asset. a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in fair value of our swaps by approximately $7,382,000 at december 31, 2004. we had no interest rate swap agreements outstanding at december 31, 2003. our variable rate debt, including our unsecured lines of credit arrangements, is reflected at fair value. at december 31, 2004, we had $151,000,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt and assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $1,510,000. at december 31, 2003, we did not have any borrowings outstanding related to our variable rate debt and assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have had no effect on annual interest expense. we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. the majority of our borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited. 61 table of contentsrisk factors forward-looking statements and risk factors this annual report on form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements that constitute forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the federal securities laws. these forward-looking statements include those regarding: the possible expansion of our portfolio; the sale of properties; the performance of our operators and properties; our ability to enter into agreements with new viable tenants for properties that we take back from financially troubled tenants, if any; our ability to make distributions; our policies and plans regarding investments, financings and other matters; our tax status as a real estate investment trust; our ability to appropriately balance the use of debt and equity; 25 table of contents our ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds; and our ability to meet our earnings guidance. for example, when we use words such as may, will, intend, should, believe, expect, anticipate, estimate or similar expressions, we are making forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. our expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from our expectations. this may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including prevailing interest rates; serious issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies and operators difficulty in obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the health care and senior housing industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; the company ability to transition or sell facilities with profitable results; the failure of closings to occur as and when anticipated; acts of god affecting our properties; our ability to reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator bankruptcies or insolvencies; government regulations affecting medicare and medicaid reimbursement rates; liability claims and insurance costs for our operators; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future acquisitions; environmental laws affecting our properties; delays in reinvestment of sale proceeds; changes in rules or practices governing the company financial reporting; other factors, including reit qualification, anti-takeover provisions and key management personnel; and the risks described below: risk factors related to our operators revenues and expenses our facility operators revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates. expenses for these facilities are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue, to come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. liability insurance and staffing costs continue to increase for our operators. to the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a facility not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. 26 table of contents risk factors related to operator bankruptcies we are exposed to the risk that our operators may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in an operator bankruptcy or insolvency, or that an operator might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons. although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict an operator, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. an operator in bankruptcy may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies. we may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of a facility, avoid the imposition of liens on a facility and/or transition a facility to a new operator. in some instances, we have terminated our lease with an operator and relet the facility to another operator. in some of those situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new operator. if we cannot transition a leased facility to a new operator, we may take possession of that facility, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected. risk factors related to government regulations our operators businesses are affected by government reimbursement and private payor rates. to the extent that a facility receives a significant portion of its revenues from governmental payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such facility. in recent years, governmental payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures. health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of the skilled nursing industry, the specialty care industry or the health care industry in general. there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will continue to be available for services provided by any facility operator, whether the facility receives reimbursement from medicare, medicaid or private payors. significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an operator liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us. in addition, the replacement of an operator that has defaulted on its lease or loan could be delayed by the approval process of any federal, state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. see item 1 business certain government regulations reimbursement above. risk factors related to liability claims and insurance costs long-term care facility operators (skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities, and independent living/continuing care retirement communities) have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims in recent years, particularly in the states of texas and florida. as a result, general and professional liability costs have increased and may continue to increase. long-term care liability insurance rates are increasing nationwide because of large jury awards in states like texas and florida. over the past four years, both texas and florida have adopted skilled nursing facility liability laws that modify or limit tort damages. despite some of these reforms, the long-term care industry overall continues to experience very high general and professional liability costs. insurance companies have responded to this claims crisis by severely restricting their capacity to write long-term care general and professional liability policies. no assurances can be given that the climate for long-term care general and professional liability insurance will improve in any of the foregoing states or any other states where the facility operators conduct business. insurance companies may continue to reduce or stop writing general and professional liability policies for long-term care facilities. thus, general professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the facility operators future 27 table of contents operations, cash flows and financial condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the facility operators ability to meet their obligations to us. risk factors related to acquisitions we are exposed to the risk that our future acquisitions may not prove to be successful. we could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. if we agree to provide construction funding to an operator and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project or we could lose the property. moreover, if we issue equity securities or incur additional debt, or both, to finance future acquisitions, it may reduce our per share financial results. these costs may negatively affect our results of operations. risk factors related to environmental laws under various federal and state laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination. these laws also expose us to the possibility that we may become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person relationship to the property. our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property and since we are a passive landlord, we do not participate in the management of any property in which we have an interest. moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. those assessments are designed to meet the all appropriate inquiry standard, which qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material environmental contamination. however, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. risk factors related to reinvestment of sale proceeds from time to time, we will have cash available from (1) the proceeds of sales of our securities, (2) principal payments on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. we must re-invest these proceeds, on a timely basis, in properties or in qualified short-term investments. we compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. this competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. delays in acquiring properties may negatively impact revenues and perhaps our ability to make distributions to stockholders. other risk factors we are also subject to a number of other risks. first, we might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit. we intend to operate as a reit under the internal revenue code and believe we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. since reit qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of federal taxes owed. a reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. also, if we were not a reit, we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-reit is not required to pay dividends to stockholders amounting to at least 90% of its annual taxable income (including 100% of capital gains). see item 1 business taxation for a discussion of the provisions of the internal revenue code that apply to us and the effects of non-qualification. second, our second restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (staggered board provisions, restrictions on share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for or even prevent 28 table of contents a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. third, we are dependent on key personnel. although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an adverse impact on our operations. we believe that losing more than one would have a material adverse impact on our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. we seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. we may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. these decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. the following section is presented to provide a discussion of the risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates. we historically borrow on our unsecured lines of credit arrangements to acquire, construct or make loans relating to health care and senior housing properties. then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under the unsecured lines of credit arrangements. a change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt. a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in fair value of our senior unsecured notes by approximately $36,770,000 at december 31, 2005 ($28,025,000 at december 31, 2004). changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt, or equity or repaid by the sale of assets. on may 6, 2004, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements (the swaps ) for a total notional amount of $100,000,000 to hedge changes in fair value attributable to changes in the libor swap rate of $100,000,000 of fixed rate debt with a maturity date of november 15, 2013. the swaps are treated as fair-value hedges for accounting purposes and we utilize the short-cut method in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, as amended. the swaps are with highly rated counterparties in which we receive a fixed rate of 6.0% and pay a variable rate based on six-month libor plus a spread. at december 31, 2005 and 2004, the swaps were reported at their fair values as a $2,211,000 and $4,206,000 other asset, respectively. a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in fair value of our swaps by approximately $6,435,000 and $7,382,000 at december 31, 2005 and 2004. we had no interest rate swap agreements outstanding at december 31, 2003. our variable rate debt, including our unsecured lines of credit arrangements, is reflected at fair value. at december 31, 2005, we had $195,000,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt and assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $1,950,000. at december 31, 2004, we had $151,000,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt and assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have resulted in increased annual interest expense of $1,510,000. we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. the majority of our borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited. 56 table of contentsrisk factors 26 risk factors forward-looking statements and risk factors this annual report on form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements that constitute forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the federal securities laws. these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those regarding: the possible expansion of our portfolio; the sale of properties; the performance of our operators/tenants and properties; our ability to enter into agreements with new viable tenants for properties that we take back from financially troubled tenants, if any; our ability to retain or increase occupancies in our medical office buildings at similar or higher rates; our ability to make distributions to stockholders; our policies and plans regarding investments, financings and other matters; our tax status as a real estate investment trust; our ability to appropriately balance the use of debt and equity; our ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds; and our ability to meet our earnings guidance. when we use words such as may, will, intend, should, believe, expect, anticipate, estimate or similar expressions, we are making forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of 26 table of contents future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. our expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from our expectations. this may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including prevailing interest rates; issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies and operators /tenants difficulty in cost-effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the health care and senior housing industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; our ability to transition or sell facilities with profitable results; the failure to make new investments as and when anticipated; the failure of closings to occur as and when anticipated; acts of god affecting our properties; our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; our ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator bankruptcies or insolvencies; government regulations affecting medicare and medicaid reimbursement rates; liability or contract claims by or against operators; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future acquisitions; environmental laws affecting our properties; changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting; other legal and operational factors, including reit qualification and key management personnel recruitment and retention; and the risks described below: risk factors related to our operators revenues and expenses our investment property operators revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates. expenses for these facilities are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. liability insurance and staffing costs continue to increase for our operators. to the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. risk factors related to obligor bankruptcies we are exposed to the risk that our obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in an obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that an obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons. although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans 27 table of contents provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. an obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies. we may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new tenant. in some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. in some of those situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. if we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected. transfers of health care facilities may require regulatory approvals and these facilities may not have efficient alternative uses transfers of health care facilities to successor operators may be subject to regulatory approvals that are not required for transfers of other types of real estate. the replacement of an operator could be delayed by the approval process of any federal, state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. alternatively, given the specialized nature of our facilities, we may be required to spend substantial time and funds to adapt these properties to other uses. if we are unable to timely transfer properties to successor operators or find efficient alternative uses, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected. risk factors related to government regulations our obligors businesses are affected by government reimbursement and private payor rates. to the extent that an operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from governmental payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such property. in recent years, governmental payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures. health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will continue to be available for services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives reimbursement from medicare, medicaid or private payors. significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an obligor liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor to meet its obligations to us. see item 1 business certain government regulations reimbursement above. our operators and tenants generally are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations. our operators or tenants failure to comply with any of these laws could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. such actions may have an effect on our operators or tenants ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. many of our medical properties may require a license and/or certificate of need to operate. failure to obtain a license or certificate of need, or loss of a required license or certificate of need would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. these events could materially adversely affect our operators or tenants ability to make rent payments to us. state and local laws also may regulate expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction of health care facilities, by requiring a certificate of need or other similar approval. 28 table of contents risk factors related to liability claims and insurance costs long-term care property operators (skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities, and independent living/continuing care retirement communities) have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims in recent years, particularly in the states of texas and florida. as a result, general and professional liability costs have increased and may continue to increase. long-term care liability insurance rates are increasing nationwide because of large jury awards. over the past four years, both texas and florida have adopted skilled nursing property liability laws that modify or limit tort damages. despite some of these reforms, the long-term care industry overall continues to experience very high general and professional liability costs. insurance companies have responded to this claims crisis by severely restricting their capacity to write long-term care general and professional liability policies. no assurances can be given that the climate for long-term care general and professional liability insurance will improve in any of the foregoing states or any other states where the property operators conduct business. insurance companies may continue to reduce or stop writing general and professional liability policies for long-term care facilities. thus, general and professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the property operators future operations, cash flows and financial condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the property operators ability to meet their obligations to us. risk factors related to acquisitions we are exposed to the risk that our future acquisitions may not prove to be successful. we could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. if we agree to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project. moreover, if we issue equity securities or incur additional debt, or both, to finance future acquisitions, it may reduce our per share financial results. these costs may negatively affect our results of operations. risk factors related to environmental laws under various federal and state laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. we may become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person relationship to the property. our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property. moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. those assessments are designed to meet the all appropriate inquiry standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material environmental contamination. however, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors. risk factors related to facilities that require entrance fees certain of our senior housing facilities require the payment of an upfront entrance fee by the resident, a portion of which may be refundable by the operator. some of these facilities are subject to substantial oversight by state regulators. as a result of this oversight, residents of these facilities may have a variety of rights, including, for example, the right to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time and certain lien rights. the oversight and rights of residents within these facilities may have an effect on the revenue or operations of the operators of such facilities and therefore may negatively impact us. 29 table of contents risk factors related to facilities under construction or development at any given time, we may be in the process of constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will require a license before they can be utilized by the operator for their intended use. the operator also will need to obtain medicare and medicaid provider agreements or third party payor contracts. in the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary licensure, provider agreements on contracts after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license to operate the new facility and the necessary provider agreements or contracts or we can find and contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use and the necessary provider agreements or contracts. in connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. these factors could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. in addition, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may not be able to complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs. additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such distributions. newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. in deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. in particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy and rental rates. if our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate, and the property is unable to achieve the expected occupancy and rental rates, it may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. additionally, we may acquire new properties not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with that property. we do not know if our tenants will renew their existing leases, and if they do not, we may be unable to lease the properties on as favorable terms, or at all we cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times through 2021. if these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties. there can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground leases we have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. as the lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us. 30 table of contents illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties real estate investments are relatively illiquid. our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. no assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. risk factors related to reinvestment of sale proceeds from time to time, we will have cash available from (1) the proceeds of sales of our securities, (2) principal payments on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. we must re-invest these proceeds, on a timely basis, in properties or in qualified short-term investments. we compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. this competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. delays in acquiring properties may negatively impact revenues and perhaps our ability to make distributions to stockholders. failure to properly manage our rapid growth could distract our management or increase our expenses we have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to continue this rapid growth in the future. our rapid growth has resulted in increased levels of responsibility for our management. future property acquisitions could place significant additional demands on, and require us to expand, our management, resources and personnel. our failure to manage any such rapid growth effectively could harm our business and, in particular, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to stockholders. our rapid growth could also increase our capital requirements, which may require us to issue potentially dilutive equity securities and incur additional debt. other risk factors we are also subject to a number of other risks. first, we might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit. we intend to operate as a reit under the internal revenue code and believe we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. since reit qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of federal taxes owed. a reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. also, if we were not a reit, we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-reit is not required to pay dividends to stockholders amounting to at least the sum of (1) 85% of our reit ordinary income for such year (other than capital gain that we elect to retain and pay tax on) and (2) any undistributed taxable income from preceding periods. see item 1 business taxation for a discussion of the provisions of the internal revenue code that apply to us and the effects of non-qualification. second, our second restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (staggered board provisions, restrictions on share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. third, we are dependent on key personnel. although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an adverse impact on our operations. we believe that losing more than one would have a material adverse impact on our business. 31 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. we seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. we may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. these decisions are principally based on our policy to fund our fixed rate investments with long-term fixed rate debt and equity, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. the following section is presented to provide a discussion of the risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates. we historically borrow on our unsecured lines of credit arrangements to acquire, construct or make loans relating to health care and senior housing properties. then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under the unsecured lines of credit arrangements. a change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt. at december 31, 2006, we had $1,539,830,000 of outstanding principal balances related to our senior unsecured notes. a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in fair value of our senior unsecured notes by approximately $71,108,000 at december 31, 2006. at december 31, 2005, we had $1,194,830,000 of outstanding principal balances related to our senior unsecured notes. a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in fair value of our senior unsecured notes by approximately $36,770,000 at december 31, 2005. at december 31, 2006, we had $363,848,000 of outstanding principal balances related to our fixed rate secured debt. a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in fair value of our fixed rate secured debt by approximately $17,214,000 at december 31, 2006. at december 31, 2005, we had $107,540,000 of outstanding principal balances related to our fixed rate secured debt. a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in fair value of our fixed rate secured debt by approximately $3,962,000 at december 31, 2005. at december 31, 2006, we had $51,000,000 of outstanding principal balances related to our liability to a subsidiary trust issuing preferred securities. a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in fair value of this liability by approximately $1,891,000 at december 31, 2006. changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt or equity, or repaid by the sale of assets. on may 6, 2004, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements (the swaps ) for a total notional amount of $100,000,000 to hedge changes in fair value attributable to changes in the libor swap rate of $100,000,000 of fixed rate debt with a maturity date of november 15, 2013. the swaps are treated as fair-value hedges for accounting purposes and we utilize the short-cut method in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, as amended. the swaps are with highly rated counterparties in which we receive a fixed rate of 6.0% and pay a variable rate based on six-month libor plus a spread. at december 31, 2006 and 2005, the swaps were reported at their fair values as a $902,000 and $2,211,000 other asset, respectively. a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in fair value of our swaps by approximately $4,659,000 and $6,435,000 at december 31, 2006 and 2005. our variable rate debt, including our unsecured lines of credit arrangements and one mortgage loan, is reflected at fair value. at december 31, 2006, we had $239,552,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt and assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $2,396,000. at december 31, 2005, we had $195,000,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt and assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have resulted in increased annual interest expense of $1,950,000. 61 table of contents we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. the majority of our borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited. for additional information regarding fair values of financial instruments, see item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and note 15 to our audited consolidated financial statements.risk factors 26 risk factors forward-looking statements and risk factors this annual report on form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements that constitute forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the federal securities laws. these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those regarding: the possible expansion of our portfolio; the sale of properties; the performance of our operators/tenants and properties; our ability to enter into agreements with new viable tenants for properties that we take back from financially troubled tenants, if any; our ability to retain or increase occupancies in our medical office buildings at similar or higher rates; our ability to make distributions to stockholders; our policies and plans regarding investments, financings and other matters; our tax status as a real estate investment trust; our ability to appropriately balance the use of debt and equity; our ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds; and our ability to meet our earnings guidance. when we use words such as may, will, intend, should, believe, expect, anticipate, estimate or similar expressions, we are making forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of 26 table of contents future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. our expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from our expectations. this may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including prevailing interest rates; issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies and operators /tenants difficulty in cost-effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the health care and senior housing industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; our ability to transition or sell facilities with profitable results; the failure to make new investments as and when anticipated; the failure of closings to occur as and when anticipated; acts of god affecting our properties; our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; our ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator/tenant bankruptcies or insolvencies; government regulations affecting medicare and medicaid reimbursement rates; liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future acquisitions; environmental laws affecting our properties; changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting; other legal and operational matters, including reit qualification and key management personnel recruitment and retention; and the risks described below: risk factors related to our operators revenues and expenses our investment property operators revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates. expenses for these facilities are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. liability insurance and staffing costs continue to increase for our operators. to the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. risk factors related to obligor bankruptcies we are exposed to the risk that our obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in an obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that an obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons. although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans 27 table of contents provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. an obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies. we may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new tenant. in some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. in some of those situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. if we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected. transfers of health care facilities may require regulatory approvals and these facilities may not have efficient alternative uses transfers of health care facilities to successor operators may be subject to regulatory approvals that are not required for transfers of other types of real estate. the replacement of an operator could be delayed by the approval process of any federal, state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. alternatively, given the specialized nature of our facilities, we may be required to spend substantial time and funds to adapt these properties to other uses. if we are unable to timely transfer properties to successor operators or find efficient alternative uses, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected. risk factors related to government regulations our obligors businesses are affected by government reimbursement and private payor rates. to the extent that an operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from governmental payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such property. in recent years, governmental payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures. health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will continue to be available for services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives reimbursement from medicare, medicaid or private payors. significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an obligor liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor to meet its obligations to us. see item 1 business certain government regulations reimbursement above. our operators and tenants generally are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations. our operators or tenants failure to comply with any of these laws could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. such actions may have an effect on our operators or tenants ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. many of our properties may require a license and/or certificate of need to operate. failure to obtain a license or certificate of need, or loss of a required license or certificate of need would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. these events could materially adversely affect our operators or tenants ability to make rent payments to us. state and local laws also may regulate expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction of health care facilities, by requiring a certificate of need or other similar approval. 28 table of contents risk factors related to liability claims and insurance costs long-term care property operators (skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities, and independent living/continuing care retirement communities) have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims in recent years, particularly in the states of texas and florida. as a result, general and professional liability costs have increased and may continue to increase. long-term care liability insurance rates are increasing nationwide because of large jury awards. over the past four years, both texas and florida have adopted skilled nursing property liability laws that modify or limit tort damages. despite some of these reforms, the long-term care industry overall continues to experience very high general and professional liability costs. insurance companies have responded to this claims crisis by severely restricting their capacity to write long-term care general and professional liability policies. no assurances can be given that the climate for long-term care general and professional liability insurance will improve in any of the foregoing states or any other states where the property operators conduct business. insurance companies may continue to reduce or stop writing general and professional liability policies for long-term care facilities. thus, general and professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the property operators future operations, cash flows and financial condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the property operators ability to meet their obligations to us. risk factors related to acquisitions we are exposed to the risk that our future acquisitions may not prove to be successful. we could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. if we agree to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project. moreover, if we issue equity securities or incur additional debt, or both, to finance future acquisitions, it may reduce our per share financial results. these costs may negatively affect our results of operations. risk factors related to environmental laws under various federal and state laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. we may become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person relationship to the property. our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property. moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. those assessments are designed to meet the all appropriate inquiry standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material environmental contamination. however, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors. risk factors related to facilities that require entrance fees certain of our senior housing facilities require the payment of an upfront entrance fee by the resident, a portion of which may be refundable by the operator. some of these facilities are subject to substantial oversight by state regulators. as a result of this oversight, residents of these facilities may have a variety of rights, including, for example, the right to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time and certain lien rights. the oversight and rights of residents within these facilities may have an effect on the revenue or operations of the operators of such facilities and therefore may negatively impact us. 29 table of contents risk factors related to facilities under construction or development at any given time, we may be in the process of constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will require a license before they can be utilized by the operator for their intended use. the operator also will need to obtain medicare and medicaid provider agreements or third party payor contracts. in the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary licensure, provider agreements on contracts after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license to operate the new facility and the necessary provider agreements or contracts or we can find and contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use and the necessary provider agreements or contracts. in connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. these factors could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. in addition, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may not be able to complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs. additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such distributions. newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. in deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. in particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy and rental rates. if our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate, and the property is unable to achieve the expected occupancy and rental rates, it may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. additionally, we may acquire new properties not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with that property. we do not know if our tenants will renew their existing leases, and if they do not, we may be unable to lease the properties on as favorable terms, or at all we cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times through 2021. if these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties. there can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground leases we have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. as the lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us. 30 table of contents illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties real estate investments are relatively illiquid. our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. no assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. risk factors related to reinvestment of sale proceeds from time to time, we will have cash available from (1) the proceeds of sales of our securities, (2) principal payments on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. we must re-invest these proceeds, on a timely basis, in properties or in qualified short-term investments. we compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. this competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. delays in acquiring properties may negatively impact revenues and perhaps our ability to make distributions to stockholders. failure to properly manage our rapid growth could distract our management or increase our expenses we have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to continue this rapid growth in the future. our rapid growth has resulted in increased levels of responsibility for our management. future property acquisitions could place significant additional demands on, and require us to expand, our management, resources and personnel. our failure to manage any such rapid growth effectively could harm our business and, in particular, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to stockholders. our rapid growth could also increase our capital requirements, which may require us to issue potentially dilutive equity securities and incur additional debt. other risk factors we are also subject to a number of other risks. first, we might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit. we intend to operate as a reit under the internal revenue code and believe we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. since reit qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of federal taxes owed. a reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. also, if we were not a reit, we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-reit is not required to pay dividends to stockholders amounting to at least the sum of (1) 85% of our reit ordinary income for the year, (2) 95% of our reit capital gain income for such year (other than capital gain that we elect to retain and pay tax on) and (3) any undistributed taxable income from preceding periods. see item 1 business taxation for a discussion of the provisions of the internal revenue code that apply to us and the effects of non-qualification. second, our second restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (staggered board provisions, restrictions on share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. third, we are dependent on key personnel. although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an adverse impact on our operations. we believe that losing more than one would have a material adverse impact on our business. 31 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. we seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. we may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. these decisions are principally based on our policy to fund our fixed rate investments with long-term fixed rate debt and equity, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. the following section is presented to provide a discussion of the risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates. we historically borrow on our unsecured lines of credit arrangements to acquire, construct or make loans relating to health care and senior housing properties. then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under the unsecured lines of credit arrangements. a change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt. at december 31, 2006, we had $1,539,830,000 of outstanding principal balances related to our senior unsecured notes. a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in fair value of our senior unsecured notes by approximately $71,108,000 at december 31, 2006. at december 31, 2005, we had $1,194,830,000 of outstanding principal balances related to our senior unsecured notes. a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in fair value of our senior unsecured notes by approximately $36,770,000 at december 31, 2005. at december 31, 2006, we had $363,848,000 of outstanding principal balances related to our fixed rate secured debt. a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in fair value of our fixed rate secured debt by approximately $17,214,000 at december 31, 2006. at december 31, 2005, we had $107,540,000 of outstanding principal balances related to our fixed rate secured debt. a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in fair value of our fixed rate secured debt by approximately $3,962,000 at december 31, 2005. at december 31, 2006, we had $51,000,000 of outstanding principal balances related to our liability to a subsidiary trust issuing preferred securities. a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in fair value of this liability by approximately $1,891,000 at december 31, 2006. changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt or equity, or repaid by the sale of assets. on may 6, 2004, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements (the swaps ) for a total notional amount of $100,000,000 to hedge changes in fair value attributable to changes in the libor swap rate of $100,000,000 of fixed rate debt with a maturity date of november 15, 2013. the swaps are treated as fair-value hedges for accounting purposes and we utilize the short-cut method in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, as amended. the swaps are with highly rated counterparties in which we receive a fixed rate of 6.0% and pay a variable rate based on six-month libor plus a spread. at december 31, 2006 and 2005, the swaps were reported at their fair values as a $902,000 and $2,211,000 other asset, respectively. a 1% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in fair value of our swaps by approximately $4,659,000 and $6,435,000 at december 31, 2006 and 2005. 61 table of contents our variable rate debt, including our unsecured lines of credit arrangements and one mortgage loan, is reflected at fair value. at december 31, 2006, we had $239,552,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt and assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $2,396,000. at december 31, 2005, we had $195,000,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt and assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have resulted in increased annual interest expense of $1,950,000. we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. the majority of our borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited. for additional information regarding fair values of financial instruments, see item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and note 15 to our audited consolidated financial statements. 62 table of contentsrisk factors 26 risk factors forward-looking statements and risk factors this section discusses the most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial condition. it does not describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our industry or ownership of our securities. if any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently think are not material, actually occur, we could be materially adversely affected. in that event, the value of our securities could decline. this annual report on form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements that constitute forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the federal securities laws. these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those regarding: the possible expansion of our portfolio; the sale of properties; the performance of our operators/tenants and properties; our ability to enter into agreements with new viable tenants for properties that we take back from financially troubled tenants, if any; our ability to retain or increase occupancies in our medical office buildings at similar or higher rates; our ability to make distributions to stockholders; our policies and plans regarding investments, financings and other matters; our tax status as a real estate investment trust; our ability to appropriately balance the use of debt and equity; our ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds; and our ability to meet our earnings guidance. when we use words such as may, will, intend, should, believe, expect, anticipate, estimate or similar expressions, we are making forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. our expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may differ materially from our expectations. this may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including prevailing interest rates; issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government investigations and punitive settlements and operators /tenants difficulty in cost-effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; 26 table of contents competition within the health care and senior housing industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; our ability to transition or sell facilities with profitable results; the failure to make new investments as and when anticipated; the failure of closings to occur as and when anticipated; acts of god affecting our properties; our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; our ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator/tenant bankruptcies or insolvencies; government regulations affecting medicare and medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements; liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future acquisitions; environmental laws affecting our properties; changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting; other legal and operational matters, including reit qualification and key management personnel recruitment and rentention; and the risks described below: risk factors related to our operators revenues and expenses our investment property operators revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates. expenses for these facilities are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. liability insurance and staffing costs continue to increase for our operators. to the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. risk factors related to obligor bankruptcies we are exposed to the risk that our obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in an obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that an obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons. although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. an obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies. we may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new tenant. in some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. in some of those situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. if we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected. 27 table of contents transfers of health care facilities may require regulatory approvals and these facilities may not have efficient alternative uses transfers of health care facilities to successor operators frequently are subject to regulatory approvals, including change of ownership approvals under certificate of need ( con ) laws and medicare and medicaid provider arrangements, that are not required for transfers of other types of real estate. the replacement of an operator could be delayed by the approval process of any federal, state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. alternatively, given the specialized nature of our facilities, we may be required to spend substantial time and funds to adapt these properties to other uses. if we are unable to timely transfer properties to successor operators or find efficient alternative uses, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected. risk factors related to government regulations our obligors businesses are affected by government reimbursement and private payor rates. to the extent that an operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from governmental payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such property. in recent years, governmental payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures. health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives reimbursement from medicare, medicaid or private payors. significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an obligor liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor to meet its obligations to us. see item 1 business certain government regulations reimbursement above. our operators and tenants generally are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations. our operators or tenants failure to comply with any of these laws could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. such actions may have an effect on our operators or tenants ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. many of our properties may require a license and/or con to operate. failure to obtain a license or con, or loss of a required license or con would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. these events could materially adversely affect our operators or tenants ability to make rent payments to us. state and local laws also may regulate expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction of health care facilities, by requiring a con or other similar approval. risk factors related to liability claims and insurance costs long-term care property operators (skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities, and independent living/continuing care retirement communities) have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims in recent years. as a result, general and professional liability costs have increased in some markets. no assurances can be given that the climate for long-term care general and professional liability insurance will improve in any states where the property operators conduct business. insurance companies may reduce or stop writing general and professional liability policies for long-term care facilities. thus, general and professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the property operators future operations, cash flows and financial condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the property operators ability to meet their obligations to us. risk factors related to acquisitions we are exposed to the risk that some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. we could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and 28 table of contents acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. if we agree to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project. moreover, if we issue equity securities or incur additional debt, or both, to finance future acquisitions, it may reduce our per share financial results. these costs may negatively affect our results of operations. risk factors related to environmental laws under various federal and state laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. we may become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person relationship to the property. our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property. moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. those assessments are designed to meet the all appropriate inquiry standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material environmental contamination. however, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors. risk factors related to facilities that require entrance fees certain of our senior housing facilities require the payment of an upfront entrance fee by the resident, a portion of which may be refundable by the operator. some of these facilities are subject to substantial oversight by state regulators relating to these funds. as a result of this oversight, residents of these facilities may have a variety of rights, including, for example, the right to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time and certain lien rights. the oversight and rights of residents within these facilities may have an effect on the revenue or operations of the operators of such facilities and therefore may negatively impact us. risk factors related to facilities under construction or development at any given time, we may be in the process of constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will require a con and license before they can be utilized by the operator for their intended use. the operator also will need to obtain medicare and medicaid certification and enter into medicare and medicaid provider agreements or third party payor contracts. in the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary con, licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary provider agreements or contracts or we can find and contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use and the necessary provider agreements or contracts. in connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. these factors could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. in addition, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may not be able to complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs. additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such distributions. newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. in deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. in particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy and rental rates. if our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate, and the 29 table of contents property is unable to achieve the expected occupancy and rental rates, it may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. additionally, we may acquire new properties that are not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with that property. we do not know if our tenants will renew their existing leases, and if they do not, we may be unable to lease the properties on as favorable terms, or at all we cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times through 2029. if these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties. there can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground leases we have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. as the lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us. illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties real estate investments are relatively illiquid. our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. no assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. risk factors related to reinvestment of sale proceeds from time to time, we will have cash available from (1) the proceeds of sales of our securities, (2) principal payments on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. we must re-invest these proceeds, on a timely basis, in properties or in qualified short-term investments. we compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. this competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. delays in acquiring properties may negatively impact revenues and perhaps our ability to make distributions to stockholders. failure to properly manage our rapid growth could distract our management or increase our expenses we have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to continue this rapid growth in the future. our rapid growth has resulted in increased levels of responsibility for our management. future property acquisitions could place significant additional demands on, and require us to expand, our management, resources and personnel. our failure to manage any such rapid growth effectively could harm our business and, in particular, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to stockholders. our rapid growth could also increase our capital requirements, which may require us to issue potentially dilutive equity securities and incur additional debt. we might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit we intend to operate as a reit under the internal revenue code and believe we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. if we lose our status as a reit, we will face serious tax consequences that will 30 table of contents substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders for each of the years involved because: we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a reit for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. since reit qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of federal taxes owed. a reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. also, if we were not a reit, we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-reit is not required to pay dividends to stockholders amounting to at least the sum of (1) 85% of our reit ordinary income for the year, (2) 95% of our reit capital gain income for such year (other than capital gain that we elect to retain and pay tax on) and (3) any undistributed taxable income from preceding periods. see item 1 business federal income tax considerations for a discussion of the provisions of the internal revenue code that apply to us and the effects of non-qualification. in addition, if we fail to qualify as a reit, all distributions to stockholders would continue to be treated as dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earning and profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to long-term capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 15%) with respect to distributions. as a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex internal revenue code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a reit. although we believe that we qualify as a reit, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a reit for tax purposes. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations included in this annual report on form 10-k. the 90% annual distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions to comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to reits and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit annual distribution requirements included in this annual report on form 10-k. although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the reit distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement or we may decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. this may be due to the timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. in addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions also may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. in the event that timing differences occur or we deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in a transaction intended to enable us to meet the reit distribution requirements. this may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations. other risk factors we are also subject to other risks. first, our second restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (staggered board provisions, restrictions on share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval requirements for business combinations) that could make it 31 table of contents more difficult for or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. additionally, we are dependent on key personnel. although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an adverse impact on our operations. we believe that losing more than one would have a material adverse impact on our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. we seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. we may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. these decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. this section is presented to provide a discussion of the risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates. we historically borrow on our unsecured lines of credit arrangements to acquire, construct or make loans relating to health care and senior housing properties. then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under the unsecured lines of credit arrangements. 62 table of contents a change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt. changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt, or equity or repaid by the sale of assets. to illustrate the impact of changes in the interest rate markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our fixed rate debt instruments whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates to determine the instruments change in fair value. the following table summarizes the analysis performed as of the dates indicated (in thousands): december 31, december 31, 2007 2006 principal change in principal change in balance fair value balance fair value senior unsecured notes $ 1,887,330 $ (96,726 ) $ 1,539,830 $ (71,108 ) secured debt 492,741 (24,530 ) 363,848 (17,214 ) liability to a subsidiary trust issuing preferred securities(1) 0 n/a 51,000 (1,891 ) totals $ 2,380,071 $ (121,256 ) $ 1,954,678 $ (90,213 ) (1) at december 31, 2006, we had $51,000,000 of trust preferred liability principal outstanding with a fixed annual interest rate of 7.22%. on november 6, 2007, we purchased all $50,000,000 of the outstanding trust preferred securities at par for the purpose of unwinding this financing arrangement and, in december 2007, surrendered these securities and the related $1,000,000 liquidation amount of common securities for cancellation, resulting in the satisfaction and discharge of this $51,000,000 liability. please see note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. on september 12, 2007, we entered into two forward-starting interest rate swaps ( the 2007 swaps ) for a total notional amount of $250,000,000 to hedge 10 years of interest payments associated with a long-term borrowing that is expected to occur in 2008. the 2007 swaps each have an effective date of september 12, 2008 and a maturity date of september 12, 2018. we expect to settle the 2007 swaps when the debt is priced. the 2007 swaps have the economic effect of fixing $250,000,000 of our future debt at 4.469% plus a credit spread for 10 years. the 2007 swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges and we expect the 2007 swaps to be highly effective at offsetting changes in cash flows of interest payments on $250,000,000 of our future debt due to changes in the libor swap rate. therefore, effective changes in the fair value of the 2007 swaps will be recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income and reclassified to interest expense when the hedged forecasted transactions affect earnings (as interest payments are made on the expected debt issuance). the ineffective portion of the changes in fair value will be recorded directly in earnings. at december 31, 2007, the 2007 swaps were reported at their fair value of $7,990,000 and are included in other liabilities and accumulated other comprehensive income. a 1% increase in interest rates would result in an increase in fair value of our 2007 swaps by approximately $10,871,000 at december 31, 2007. our variable rate debt, including our unsecured line of credit arrangement, is reflected at fair value. at december 31, 2007, we had $321,232,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt and assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $3,212,000. at december 31, 2006, we had $239,552,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt and assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have resulted in increased annual interest expense of $2,396,000. we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. the majority of our borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited. for additional information regarding fair values of financial instruments, see item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and note 15 to our audited consolidated financial statements. 63 table of contentsrisk factors 28 risk factors forward-looking statements and risk factors this section discusses the most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial condition. it does not describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our industry or ownership of our securities. if any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently think are not material, actually occur, we could be materially adversely affected. in that event, the value of our securities could decline. this annual report on form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements that constitute forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the federal securities laws. these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those regarding: the possible expansion of our portfolio; the sale of properties; the performance of our operators/tenants and properties; our ability to enter into agreements with new viable tenants for vacant space or for properties that we take back from financially troubled tenants, if any; our occupancy rates; our ability to acquire, develop and/or manage properties; our ability to make distributions to stockholders; our policies and plans regarding investments, financings and other matters; our tax status as a real estate investment trust; our critical accounting policies; our ability to appropriately balance the use of debt and equity; our ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds; and our ability to meet our earnings guidance. when we use words such as may, will, intend, should, believe, expect, anticipate, project, estimate or similar expressions, we are making forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. our expected results may not be achieved, and 28 table of contents actual results may differ materially from our expectations. this may be a result of various factors, including, but not limited to: the status of the economy; the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of capital; issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government investigations and punitive settlements and operators /tenants difficulty in cost-effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance; changes in financing terms; competition within the health care and senior housing industries; negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans; our ability to transition or sell facilities with profitable results; the failure to make new investments as and when anticipated; acts of god affecting our properties; our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur; our ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold; operator/tenant bankruptcies or insolvencies; government regulations affecting medicare and medicaid reimbursement rates and operational requirements; liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants; unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future acquisitions; environmental laws affecting our properties; changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting; other legal and operational matters, including reit qualification and key management personnel recruitment and rentention; and the risks described below: risk factors related to our operators revenues and expenses our investment property operators revenues are primarily driven by occupancy, medicare and medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates. expenses for these facilities are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. liability insurance and staffing costs continue to increase for our operators. to the extent that any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. the recent and ongoing credit and liquidity crisis, and the weakening economy, may have an adverse effect on our operators and tenants, including their ability to access credit or maintain occupancy rates. if the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our operators are materially adversely impacted by the current economic conditions, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected. 29 table of contents increased competition may affect our operators ability to meet their obligations to us the operators of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators of properties and other health care providers that provide comparable services. we cannot be certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. our operators are expected to encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses. risk factors related to obligor bankruptcies we are exposed to the risk that our obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in an obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that an obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons. although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. an obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies. we may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new tenant. in some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. in some of those situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. if we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected. transfers of health care facilities may require regulatory approvals and these facilities may not have efficient alternative uses transfers of health care facilities to successor operators frequently are subject to regulatory approvals, including change of ownership approvals under certificate of need ( con ) laws, state licensure laws and medicare and medicaid provider arrangements, that are not required for transfers of other types of real estate. the replacement of an operator could be delayed by the approval process of any federal, state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. alternatively, given the specialized nature of our facilities, we may be required to spend substantial time and funds to adapt these properties to other uses. if we are unable to timely transfer properties to successor operators or find efficient alternative uses, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected. risk factors related to government regulations our obligors businesses are affected by government reimbursement and private payor rates. to the extent that an operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from governmental payors, primarily medicare and medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such property. in recent years, governmental payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures. health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. we cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives reimbursement from medicare, medicaid or private payors. significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an obligor liquidity, financial 30 table of contents condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor to meet its obligations to us. see item 1 business certain government regulations reimbursement above. our operators and tenants generally are subject to extensive federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws and regulations. our operators or tenants failure to comply with any of these laws could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. such actions may have an effect on our operators or tenants ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. see item 1 business certain government regulations other related laws above. many of our properties may require a license and/or con to operate. failure to obtain a license or con, or loss of a required license or con would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. these events could materially adversely affect our operators or tenants ability to make rent payments to us. state and local laws also may regulate expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction of health care facilities, by requiring a con or other similar approval. see item 1 business certain government regulations licensing and certification above. the american reinvestment and recovery act of 2009, which was signed into law on february 17, 2009, provides $87 billion in additional federal medicaid funding for states medicaid expenditures between october 1, 2008 and december 31, 2010. under this act, states meeting certain eligibility requirements will temporarily receive additional money in the form of an increase in the federal medical assistance percentage (fmap). thus, for a limited period of time, the share of medicaid costs that are paid for by the federal government will go up, and each state share will go down. we cannot predict whether states are, or will remain, eligible to receive the additional federal medicaid funding, or whether the states will have sufficient funds for their medicaid programs. we also cannot predict the impact that this broad-based, far-reaching legislation will have on the u.s. economy or our business. risk factors related to liability claims and insurance costs long-term care property operators (skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities, and independent living/continuing care retirement communities) have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims in recent years. as a result, general and professional liability costs have increased in some markets. no assurances can be given that the climate for long-term care general and professional liability insurance will improve in any states where the property operators conduct business. insurance companies may reduce or stop writing general and professional liability policies for long-term care facilities. thus, general and professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the property operators future operations, cash flows and financial condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the property operators ability to meet their obligations to us. risk factors related to acquisitions we are exposed to the risk that some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. we could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. if we agree to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project. moreover, if we issue equity securities or incur additional debt, or both, to finance future acquisitions, it may reduce our per share financial results. these costs may negatively affect our results of operations. risk factors related to indebtedness permanent financing for our investments is typically provided through a combination of public and private offerings of debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt. the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or (4) negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the noted rating agencies. 31 table of contents our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments. these defaults could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. risk factors related to our credit ratings as of february 16, 2009, our senior unsecured notes were rated baa2 (stable), bbb- (stable) and bbb (stable) by moody investors service, standard poor ratings services and fitch ratings, respectively. we plan to manage the company to maintain investment grade status with a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the noted rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. risk factors related to interest rate swaps we enter into interest rate swap agreements from time to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility. these swap agreements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates. when we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a risk that we will not complete the long-term borrowing against which the swap is intended to hedge. if such events occur, our results of operations may be adversely affected. risk factors related to environmental laws under various federal and state laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. we may become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person relationship to the property. our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property. moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. those assessments are designed to meet the all appropriate inquiry standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material environmental contamination. however, environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors. risk factors related to facilities that require entrance fees certain of our senior housing facilities require the payment of an upfront entrance fee by the resident, a portion of which may be refundable by the operator. some of these facilities are subject to substantial oversight by state regulators relating to these funds. as a result of this oversight, residents of these facilities may have a variety of rights, including, for example, the right to cancel their contracts within a specified period of time and certain lien rights. the oversight and rights of residents within these facilities may have an effect on the revenue or operations of the operators of such facilities and therefore may negatively impact us. risk factors related to facilities under construction or development at any given time, we may be in the process of constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will require a con and license before they can be utilized by the operator for their intended use. the operator also may need to obtain medicare and medicaid certification and enter into medicare and medicaid provider agreements 32 table of contents and/or third party payor contracts. in the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary con, licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a license or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary provider agreements or contracts or we can find and contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use and the necessary provider agreements or contracts. in connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. these factors could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. in addition, we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may not be able to complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs. additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. because we are required to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such distributions. newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. in deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. in particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy and rental rates. if our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate, and the property is unable to achieve the expected occupancy and rental rates, it may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. additionally, we may acquire new properties that are not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with that property. we do not know if our tenants will renew their existing leases, and if they do not, we may be unable to lease the properties on as favorable terms, or at all we cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times through 2045. if these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties or sell them. there can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all. our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground leases we have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. as the lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us. illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties real estate investments are relatively illiquid. our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. no assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and healthcare industries. a downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us. 33 table of contents risk factors related to reinvestment of sale proceeds from time to time, we will have cash available from (1) the proceeds of sales of our securities, (2) principal payments on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. in order to maintain current revenues and continue generating attractive returns, we expect to re-invest these proceeds in a timely manner. we compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. this competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. failure to properly manage our rapid growth could distract our management or increase our expenses we have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to continue this rapid growth in the future. our rapid growth has resulted in increased levels of responsibility for our management. future property acquisitions could place significant additional demands on, and require us to expand, our management, resources and personnel. our failure to manage any such rapid growth effectively could harm our business and, in particular, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to stockholders. our rapid growth could also increase our capital requirements, which may require us to issue potentially dilutive equity securities and incur additional debt. we might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a reit we intend to operate as a reit under the internal revenue code and believe we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. if we lose our status as a reit, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders for each of the years involved because: we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a reit for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. since reit qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of federal taxes owed. a reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. also, if we were not a reit, we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-reit is not required, in order to avoid an excise tax, to pay dividends to stockholders amounting to at least the sum of: (1) 85% of our reit ordinary income for the year; (2) 95% of our reit capital gain income for such year (other than capital gain that we elect to retain and pay tax on); and (3) any undistributed taxable income from preceding periods. see item 1 business federal income tax considerations for a discussion of the provisions of the internal revenue code that apply to us and the effects of non-qualification. in addition, if we fail to qualify as a reit, all distributions to stockholders would continue to be treated as dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earning and profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction, and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to long-term capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 15%) with respect to distributions. as a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a reit also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex internal revenue code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a reit. although we believe that we qualify as a reit, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a reit for tax purposes. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations included in this annual report on form 10-k. 34 table of contents the 90% annual distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions to comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to reits and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders. see item 1 business taxation federal income tax considerations qualification as a reit annual distribution requirements included in this annual report on form 10-k. although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the reit distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement, or we may decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. this may be due to timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. in addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. in the event that timing differences occur, or we deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in a transaction intended to enable us to meet the reit distribution requirements. this may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations. the amount of additional indebtedness we may incur is limited by the terms of our line of credit arrangement and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes. in addition, adverse economic conditions may impact the availability of additional funds or could cause the terms on which we are able to borrow additional funds to become unfavorable. in those circumstances, we may be required to raise additional equity in the capital markets. our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions and the market perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of the shares of our capital stock. we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. other risk factors we are also subject to other risks. first, our second restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (staggered board provisions, restrictions on share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent board of directors. provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock. additionally, we are dependent on key personnel. although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an adverse impact on our operations. we believe that losing more than one could have a material adverse impact on our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 69 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. we seek to mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. we may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. these decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest rates. this section is presented to provide a discussion of the risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates. we historically borrow on our unsecured lines of credit arrangements to acquire, construct or make loans relating to health care and senior housing properties. then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay the borrowings under the unsecured lines of credit arrangements. 69 table of contents a change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt. interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt. changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt, or equity or repaid by the sale of assets. to illustrate the impact of changes in the interest rate markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our fixed rate debt instruments whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates to determine the instruments change in fair value. the following table summarizes the analysis performed as of the dates indicated (in thousands): december 31, 2008 december 31, 2007 principal change in principal change in balance fair value balance fair value senior unsecured notes $ 1,845,000 $ (112,438 ) $ 1,887,330 $ (96,726 ) secured debt 448,378 (17,966 ) 492,741 (24,530 ) totals $ 2,293,378 $ (130,404 ) $ 2,380,071 $ (121,256 ) on september 12, 2007, we entered into two forward-starting interest rate swaps (the september 2007 swaps ) for a total notional amount of $250,000,000 to hedge 10 years of interest payments associated with a long-term borrowing that was expected to occur in 2008. the september 2007 swaps each had an effective date of september 12, 2008 and a maturity date of september 12, 2018. we expected to settle the 2007 swaps when the debt was to be priced. the september 2007 swaps were to have the economic effect of fixing $250,000,000 of our future debt at 4.469% plus a credit spread for 10 years. the september 2007 swaps had been designated as cash flow hedges and we expected the 2007 swaps to be highly effective at offsetting changes in cash flows of interest payments on $250,000,000 of our future debt due to changes in the libor swap rate. therefore, effective changes in the fair value of the september 2007 swaps were recorded in aoci and were to be reclassified to interest expense when the hedged forecasted transactions affected earnings (as interest payments are made on the expected debt issuance). the ineffective portion of the changes in fair value was to be recorded directly in earnings. at december 31, 2007, the september 2007 swaps were reported at their fair value of $7,990,000 and were included in other liabilities and aoci. during the year ended december 31, 2008, as a result of the severe dislocation in the credit markets, we terminated plans to issue debt and also terminated the september 2007 swaps for $23,393,000. amounts previously recorded in aoci were reclassified to realized loss on derivatives resulting in $23,393,000 of expense as the forecasted transaction was no longer probable to occur. our variable rate debt, including our unsecured line of credit arrangement, is reflected at fair value. at december 31, 2008, we had $570,000,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt and assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased annual interest expense of $5,700,000. at december 31, 2007, we had $321,232,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt and assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have resulted in increased annual interest expense of $3,212,000. we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. the majority of our borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited. for additional information regarding fair values of financial instruments, see item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies and note 16 to our audited consolidated financial statements. 70 table of contents